Elon University The Basics About Elon University Elon University is a private institution that was founded in 1889. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,995, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 575 acres. It utilizes a 4-1-4-based academic calendar.  Elon University's ranking in the 2011 edition of Best Colleges is Regional Universities (South), 2. Its tuition and fees are $26,827.
The best thing about Elon is its gorgeous campus. I also love the small class size. I never feel like just a number here. I can't imagine going to a big school with hundreds of students in my classes. At Elon, my biggest class was 60 people, and that is rare! When I tell people I go to Elon, most people used to respond "Where?" and I'd have to explain that it's a small, private school near Greensboro, NC. However, more and more people are hearing about Elon. It's reputation as a great school is growing and now it seems like everyone I talk to know someone who went to Elon or has heard something about it recently. Elon has a huge study abroad program and the campus is very active in service learning. The Business, Communications, and Education schools are growing and offer some of the best programs in the country where students get a lot of experience from the start.
Elon is a fairly large campus...what you walk through campus (which takes about 10 minutes) you will see faces that you know but many that you don't. In the beginning of the experience you will meet tons of people, but as you go through the classes you will end of taking classes with a group of about 10 friends. Its really nice to have people you know and like around you all the time.    The town of Elon is really small and it is sometimes a little difficult to find things to do. But in the last 2 years there has been a huge mall constructed just down the road so it is much better now. Its nice because the grocery store, shopping, movies are really close to the campus which helps out when gas is 3.55 a gallon.    Administration is absolutely wonderful (note I do not work for the school). We have this thing called college coffee where the whole admin comes out to talk to the students. If there is something that could be better or theres a problem they will take care of it. They also have no compunction about throwing money into student events. Dr. Lambert (President) is also one of the nicest people in the world. He really keeps the place running (0 tollerance policy for broken stuff).     School pride (and sports in general) are still weak. We are in SOCON division 1...I think. Its not like there is no spirit, but there's not nearly as much as you might find at UNC or Maryland. They school colors to sports game...we wear polo shirts and sundresses. But there is actually a new pep group on campus so I think that is starting to change. The football team is also getting alot better. My freshman year was a shambles.
Copyright © 2011 U.S. News & World Report, L.P. All rights reserved.
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.