Adrian College Adrian College The Basics About Adrian College Adrian College is a private institution that was founded in 1859. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 1,609, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 100 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar.  Adrian College's ranking in the 2011 edition of Best Colleges is Regional Colleges (Midwest), 27. Its tuition and fees are $25,900.
Adrian College offers numerous enriching educational experiences. Almost one quarter of last year's graduating class studied abroad. Many academic programs require internships or practicums, giving students opportunities to apply their studies in real-world situations. Many courses are designed around service learning. Examples include Biology students working with the River Raisin Watershed Council, Teacher Education students tutoring at local schools, and Business students consulting for local non-profits. All majors require a Capstone Experience, where seniors synthesize years of learning into a single project. We have also been the recipient of Fulbright Arabic Scholars for the past three years, enriching our language offerings and campus culture. Adrian College is also proud to participate in Operation Education, a program that helps wounded veterans earn an education.  Adrian College is experiencing tremendous growth through its Renaissance campaigns, which continue to transform our teaching, learning, and scholarly environments. Renaissance I brought new athletic facilities, including a multisport performance stadium and ice arena, and new programs, including a marching band and the Athletic Training Program.  Renaissance II is bringing innovative educational opportunities. For example, Rush Hall was transformed from an old bookstore to the home of the Communication Arts and Sciences program, complete with new media studios, sound rooms, and editing labs, and we have invested in several technology initiatives, including smart classrooms, digital library resources, Blackboard, and a significant increase in our Internet bandwidth to 90Mbps max throughput.
Renaissance II also prompted the creation of Institutes, which integrate theoretical and practical learning in distinctive ways. These are the Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies, the Institute for Health Studies, the Institute for Study Abroad, the Institute for Ethics, and the Institute for Law and Public Policy. Institutes promote interdisciplinary learning, seek unique opportunities for students, give a platform for student-faculty collaboration, and foster projects that benefit our campus culture.  Copyright © 2011 U.S. News & World Report, L.P. All rights reserved.
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.