Accepted at AAAI 2024 Workshop on Synergy of Reinforcement Learning and Large Language Models
Reinforcement Learning for Optimizing RAG for Domain Chatbots
Mandar Kulkarni, Praveen Tangarajan, Kyung Kim, Anusua Trivedi
Flipkart Data Science
Seattle, Washington, USA
Abstract
With the advent of Large Language Models (LLM), conversa-
tional assistants have become prevalent for domain use cases.
LLMs acquire the ability to contextual question answering
through extensive training, and Retrieval Augmented Genera-
tion (RAG) further enables the bot to answer domain-specific
questions. This paper describes a RAG-based approach for
building a chatbot that answers user’s queries using Fre-
quently Asked Questions (FAQ) data. We train an in-house
retrieval embedding model using infoNCE loss, and exper-
imental results demonstrate that the in-house model works
significantly better than the well-known general-purpose pub-
lic embedding model, both in terms of retrieval accuracy and
Out-of-Domain (OOD) query detection. As an LLM, we use
an open API-based paid ChatGPT (gpt-35-turbo-16k-0613)
model. We noticed that a previously retrieved-context could
be used to generate an answer for specific patterns/sequences
of queries (e.g., follow-up queries). Hence, there is a scope
to optimize the number of LLM tokens and cost. Assuming a
fixed retrieval model and an LLM, we optimize the number
of LLM tokens using Reinforcement Learning (RL). Specifi-
cally, we propose a policy-based model external to the RAG,
which interacts with the RAG pipeline through policy actions
and updates the policy to optimize the cost. The policy model
can perform two actions: to fetch FAQ context or skip re-
trieval. We use the open API-based GPT-4 as the evaluation
model, which rates the quality of the bot answer. Using an
appropriate reward shaping, GPT-4 ratings are converted to
a numeric reward. We then train a policy model using pol-
icy gradient on multiple training chat sessions. As a pol-
icy model, we experimented with a public gpt-2 model and
an in-house BERT model. With the proposed RL-based op-
timization combined with similarity threshold, we are able
to achieve significant (~31%) cost savings while getting a
slightly improved accuracy. Though we demonstrate results
for the FAQ chatbot, the proposed RL approach is generic
and can be experimented with any existing RAG pipeline.
Introduction
With the advent of Large Language Models (LLM), we ob-
serve an increased use of conversational assistants even for
the domain use cases. Trained on a large web-scale text cor-
pus with approaches such as instruction tuning and Rein-
forcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF), LLMs
Copyright © 2024, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
have become good at contextual question-answering tasks,
i.e., given a relevant text as a context, LLMs can generate
answers to questions using that information. Retrieval Aug-
mented Generation (RAG) is one of the key techniques used
to build chatbots for answering questions on domain data.
RAG consists of two components: a retrieval model and
an answer generation model based on LLM. The retrieval
model fetches context relevant to the user’s query. The query
and the retrieved context are then inputted to the LLM with
the appropriate prompt to generate the answer. Though in-
tuitive to understand, RAG-based chatbots have a few chal-
lenges from a practical standpoint.
1. If a retrieval model fails to fetch relevant context, the gen-
erated answer would be incorrect and uninformative. The
retrieval is more challenging for non-English queries,
e.g., code-mix Hinglish.
2. For paid API-based LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT), the cost per
call is calculated based on the number of input and out-
put tokens. A large number of tokens passed in a context
leads to a higher cost per API call. With a high volume
of user queries, the cost can become significant.
3. To enable multi-turn conversations with R