RAG VS FINE-TUNING: PIPELINES, TRADEOFFS, AND A CASE
STUDY ON AGRICULTURE
Microsoft
Angels Balaguer, Vinamra Benara, Renato Cunha, Roberto Estevão, Todd Hendry, Daniel Holstein,
Jennifer Marsman, Nick Mecklenburg, Sara Malvar, Leonardo O. Nunes, Rafael Padilha, Morris Sharp,
Bruno Silva, Swati Sharma, Vijay Aski, Ranveer Chandra
ABSTRACT
There are two common ways in which developers are incorporating proprietary and domain-specific
data when building applications of Large Language Models (LLMs): Retrieval-Augmented Genera-
tion (RAG) and Fine-Tuning. RAG augments the prompt with the external data, while fine-Tuning
incorporates the additional knowledge into the model itself. However, the pros and cons of both
approaches are not well understood. In this paper, we propose a pipeline for fine-tuning and RAG, and
present the tradeoffs of both for multiple popular LLMs, including Llama2-13B, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4.
Our pipeline consists of multiple stages, including extracting information from PDFs, generating
questions and answers, using them for fine-tuning, and leveraging GPT-4 for evaluating the results.
We propose metrics to assess the performance of different stages of the RAG and fine-Tuning pipeline.
We conduct an in-depth study on an agricultural dataset. Agriculture as an industry has not seen
much penetration of AI, and we study a potentially disruptive application - what if we could provide
location-specific insights to a farmer? Our results show the effectiveness of our dataset generation
pipeline in capturing geographic-specific knowledge, and the quantitative and qualitative benefits of
RAG and fine-tuning. We see an accuracy increase of over 6 p.p. when fine-tuning the model and this
is cumulative with RAG, which increases accuracy by 5 p.p. further. In one particular experiment,
we also demonstrate that the fine-tuned model leverages information from across geographies to
answer specific questions, increasing answer similarity from 47% to 72%. Overall, the results point
to how systems built using LLMs can be adapted to respond and incorporate knowledge across a
dimension that is critical for a specific industry, paving the way for further applications of LLMs in
other industrial domains.
Keywords GPT-4 · Agriculture · Retrieval Augmented Generation · Fine-tuning
1
Introduction
Over the past few years, artificial intelligence and natural language processing have seen significant advancements,
leading to the development of powerful large language models (LLMs) such as the Generative Pre-trained Transformer
(GPT). The technology driving LLMs, including advanced deep learning techniques, large-scale transformers, and
vast amounts of data, have propelled their rapid evolution. Models like GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023) and Llama 2 (Touvron
et al., 2023b) have demonstrated exceptional performance across numerous tasks and domains, often without specific
prompts. These models surpass their predecessors and hold immense potential in various fields like coding, medicine,
law, agriculture, and psychology, closely approaching human-level expertise (Bubeck et al., 2023; Nori et al., 2023;
Demszky et al., 2023). As LLM research continues, it is critical to identify their limitations and address the challenges
of developing more comprehensive artificial general intelligence (AGI) systems. Moreover, the machine learning
community must move beyond traditional benchmarking datasets and evaluate LLMs in ways that closely resemble
human cognitive ability assessments.
The adoption of Artificial Intelligence (AI) copilots across various industries is revolutionizing the way businesses
operate and interact with their environment. These AI copilots, powered by LLMs, provide invaluable assistance in
arXiv:2401.08406v3  [cs.CL]  30 Jan 2024
data processing and decision-making processes. In healthcare, for example, AI copilots are being leveraged to predict
patient risks and improve diagnostic accuracy (Kim et al., 2023; Thirunavukarasu et al., 2023; Alo