The Good and The Bad: Exploring Privacy Issues
in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
Shenglai Zeng1*† , Jiankun Zhang∗3,4,5, Pengfei He1, Yue Xing1, Yiding Liu2, Han Xu1
Jie Ren1, Shuaiqiang Wang2, Dawei Yin2, Yi Chang3,4,5, Jiliang Tang1
1Michigan State University
2Baidu, Inc.
3 School of Artificial Intelligence, Jilin University
4 International Center of Future Science, Jilin University
5 Engineering Research Center of Knowledge-Driven Human-Machine Intelligence, MOE, China
Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a
powerful technique to facilitate language model
with proprietary and private data, where data
privacy is a pivotal concern. Whereas extensive
research has demonstrated the privacy risks of
large language models (LLMs), the RAG tech-
nique could potentially reshape the inherent
behaviors of LLM generation, posing new pri-
vacy issues that are currently under-explored.
In this work, we conduct extensive empiri-
cal studies with novel attack methods, which
demonstrate the vulnerability of RAG systems
on leaking the private retrieval database. De-
spite the new risk brought by RAG on the re-
trieval data, we further reveal that RAG can
mitigate the leakage of the LLMs’ training
data.
Overall, we provide new insights in
this paper for privacy protection of retrieval-
augmented LLMs, which benefit both LLMs
and RAG systems builders. Our code is avail-
able at https://github.com/phycholosogy/RAG-
privacy.
1
Introduction
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Liu, 2022;
Chase, 2022; Van Veen et al., 2023; Ram et al.,
2023; Shi et al., 2023) is an advanced natural lan-
guage processing technique that enhances text gen-
eration by integrating information retrieved from
a large corpus of documents. These techniques
enable RAG to produce accurate and contextually
relevant outputs with augmented external knowl-
edge and have been widely used in various scenar-
ios such as domain-specific chatbots (Siriwardhana
et al., 2023) and email/code completion (Parvez
et al., 2021). RAG systems typically work in two
phases, as shown in Fig 1 - retrieval and generation.
When a user query is entered, relevant knowledge
is first retrieved from an external database. The
retrieved data is then combined with the original
*Equal contribution.
†Corresponding to zengshe1@msu.edu
Query
Retrieval
DB
Relevant
Docs
Response
Training
Data
Attacker
Embedding
Model
E
LLMs
Leakage
Q
Query
Retrieval Augmented Generation
Figure 1: The RAG system and potential risks.
query to form the input to a large language model
(LLM). The LLM then uses its pre-trained knowl-
edge and the retrieved data to generate a response.
In this paper, we focus on studying the risk of
privacy leakage in the RAG system, and we argue
that the information from both retrieval dataset and
the pre-training/fine-tuning dataset (of the LLM)
are potential to be released by RAG usage. On
one hand, the retrieval dataset can contain sensi-
tive, valuable domain-specific information (Parvez
et al., 2021; Kulkarni et al., 2024), such as patients
prescriptions can be used for RAG-based medical
chatbots (Yunxiang et al., 2023). On the other
hand, the retrieval process in RAG could also influ-
ence the behavior of the LLMs for text-generation,
and this could possibly cause the LLMs to output
private information from its training/fine-tuning
dataset. Notably, there are existing works (Car-
lini et al., 2021; Kandpal et al., 2022; Lee et al.,
2021; Carlini et al., 2022; Zeng et al., 2023) ob-
serving that LLMs can remember and leak private
information from their pre-training and fine-tuning
data. However, how the integration of external re-
trieval data can affect the memorization behavior
of LLMs in RAG is still unclear and worth further
exploration. Therefore, these concerns motivate us
to answer the research questions:
• (RQ1) Can we extract private data from the
external retrieval database in RAG?
arXiv:2402.16893v1  [cs.CR]  23 Feb 2024
• (RQ2) Can retrieval data affect the memoriza-