REALM: RAG-Driven Enhancement of Multimodal Electronic Health Records
Analysis via Large Language Models
Yinghao Zhu1 ∗, Changyu Ren2 ∗, Shiyun Xie1 , Shukai Liu2 , Hangyuan Ji2 ,
Zixiang Wang3 , Tao Sun2 , Long He1 , Zhoujun Li2 , Xi Zhu4 , Chengwei Pan1 †
1Institute of Artificial Intelligence, Beihang University, Beijing, China
2School of Computer Science and Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, China
3School of Software, Beihang University, Beijing, China
4China Mobile Research Institute, Beijing, China
zhuyinghao@buaa.edu.cn, pancw@buaa.edu.cn
Abstract
The integration of multimodal Electronic Health
Records (EHR) data has significantly improved
clinical predictive capabilities.
Leveraging clini-
cal notes and multivariate time-series EHR, exist-
ing models often lack the medical context relevent
to clinical tasks, prompting the incorporation of
external knowledge, particularly from the knowl-
edge graph (KG). Previous approaches with KG
knowledge have primarily focused on structured
knowledge extraction, neglecting unstructured data
modalities and semantic high dimensional medi-
cal knowledge. In response, we propose REALM,
a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) driven
framework to enhance multimodal EHR represen-
tations that address these limitations. Firstly, we
apply Large Language Model (LLM) to encode
long context clinical notes and GRU model to en-
code time-series EHR data. Secondly, we prompt
LLM to extract task-relevant medical entities and
match entities in professionally labeled external
knowledge graph (PrimeKG) with corresponding
medical knowledge.
By matching and aligning
with clinical standards, our framework eliminates
hallucinations and ensures consistency. Lastly, we
propose an adaptive multimodal fusion network
to integrate extracted knowledge with multimodal
EHR data. Our extensive experiments on MIMIC-
III mortality and readmission tasks showcase the
superior performance of our REALM framework
over baselines, emphasizing the effectiveness of
each module. REALM framework contributes to
refining the use of multimodal EHR data in health-
care and bridging the gap with nuanced medical
context essential for informed clinical predictions.
∗Equal contribution, † Corresponding author.
1
Introduction
The advent of Electronic Health Records (EHR) marks a piv-
otal advancement in the way patient data is gathered and an-
alyzed, contributing to a more effective and informed health-
care delivery system for clinical prediction Ma et al. [2023];
Gao et al. [2024]; Zhu et al. [2024c]; Zhang et al. [2024];
Liao et al. [2024]. This advancement is largely attributed
to the utilization of multimodal EHR data, which primar-
ily includes clinical notes and multivariate time-series data
from patient records Zhang et al. [2022]; Wang et al. [2024];
Zhang et al. [2023a]. Such data types are integral to health-
care prediction tasks, mirroring the holistic approach practi-
tioners adopt by leveraging various patient data points to in-
form their clinical decisions and treatment strategies, rather
than depending on a single data source Xu et al. [2023].
Deep learning-based methods have become the mainstream
approach, processing multimodal data to learn a mapping
from heterogeneous inputs to output labels Choi et al. [2017];
Ma et al. [2018]; Zhang et al. [2022]. However, in contrast
to healthcare professionals, who have a deep understanding
of medical contexts through extensive experience and knowl-
edge, neural networks trained from scratch lack these insights
into medical concepts Miotto et al. [2018]. Without deliber-
ate integration of external knowledge, these networks often
lack the ability or sensitivity to recognize crucial disease enti-
ties or laboratory test results within the EHR, essential for ac-
curate prediction tasks Zhu et al. [2024b]. In response, some
recent studies have begun incorporating knowledge graphs to
infuse additional medical insights into their analyses Ye et al.
[2021]; Gao et al. [2022]. T