FIT-RAG: Black-Box RAG with Factual Information and Token Reduction
YUREN MAO, XUEMEI DONG, WENYI XU, YUNJUN GAO, and BIN WEI, Zhejiang University, China
YING ZHANG, Zhejiang Gongshang University, China
Due to the extraordinarily large number of parameters, fine-tuning Large Language Models (LLMs) to update long-tail or out-of-date
knowledge is impractical in lots of applications. To avoid fine-tuning, we can alternatively treat a LLM as a black-box (i.e., freeze the
parameters of the LLM) and augment it with a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system, namely black-box RAG. Recently,
black-box RAG has achieved success in knowledge-intensive tasks and has gained much attention. Existing black-box RAG methods
typically fine-tune the retriever to cater to LLMs’ preferences and concatenate all the retrieved documents as the input, which suffers
from two issues: (1) Ignorance of Factual Information. The LLM preferred documents may not contain the factual information for the
given question, which can mislead the retriever and hurt the effectiveness of black-box RAG; (2) Waste of Tokens. Simply concatenating
all the retrieved documents brings large amounts of unnecessary tokens for LLMs, which degenerates the efficiency of black-box RAG.
To address these issues, this paper proposes a novel black-box RAG framework which utilizes the factual information in the retrieval
and reduces the number of tokens for augmentation, dubbed FIT-RAG. FIT-RAG utilizes the factual information by constructing
a bi-label document scorer which takes the factual information and LLMs’ preferences as labels respectively. Besides, it reduces
the tokens by introducing a self-knowledge recognizer and a sub-document-level token reducer, which enables FIT-RAG to avoid
unnecessary augmentation and reduce augmentation tokens as much as possible. FIT-RAG achieves both superior effectiveness and
efficiency, which is validated by extensive experiments across three open-domain question-answering datasets: TriviaQA, NQ and
PopQA. FIT-RAG can improve the answering accuracy of Llama2-13B-Chat by 14.3% on TriviaQA, 19.9% on NQ and 27.5% on PopQA,
respectively. Furthermore, it can save approximately half of the tokens on average across the three datasets.
CCS Concepts: • Information systems →Novelty in information retrieval; • Computing methodologies →Natural language
generation.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Large Language Models
ACM Reference Format:
Yuren Mao, Xuemei Dong, Wenyi Xu, Yunjun Gao, Bin Wei, and Ying Zhang. 2018. FIT-RAG: Black-Box RAG with Factual Information
and Token Reduction. In . ACM, New York, NY, USA, 24 pages.
1
INTRODUCTION
Large language models (LLMs), which typically have billions of parameters, have demonstrated remarkable performance
on a wide range of natural language processing tasks [5, 19, 34]. Pretrained on massive text corpora, recent LLMs, such
as GPT-4 [30], showcase a level of sophistication that approaches human-like proficiency especially in text generation.
However, the knowledge stored in the parameters of LLMs is fixed, which is susceptible to becoming out-of-date
and disable LLMs to address tasks requiring time-sensitive information. Moreover, LLMs struggle to learn long-tail
knowledge which appears infrequently in their training data [18, 28]. Additionally, due to the extraordinarily large
number of parameters, frequent fine-tuning of LLMs to update knowledge is expensive and infeasible in practice.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on
servers or to redistribute to lists, requires p