RAGged Edges:
The Double-Edged Sword of Retrieval-Augmented Chatbots∗
Philip Feldman1, 2, James R. Foulds2, and Shimei Pan2
1ASRC Federal
2University of Maryland, Baltimore County
June 13, 2024
Abstract
Large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT demonstrate the remarkable progress of artificial intel-
ligence.
However, their tendency to hallucinate – generate plausible but false information – poses a
significant challenge. This issue is critical, as seen in recent court cases where ChatGPT’s use led to
citations of non-existent legal rulings. This paper explores how Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
can counter hallucinations by integrating external knowledge with prompts. We empirically evaluate
RAG against standard LLMs using prompts designed to induce hallucinations. Our results show that
RAG increases accuracy in some cases, but can still be misled when prompts directly contradict the
model’s pre-trained understanding. These findings highlight the complex nature of hallucinations and
the need for more robust solutions to ensure LLM reliability in real-world applications. We offer practical
recommendations for RAG deployment and discuss implications for the development of more trustworthy
LLMs.
Introduction
Since it was released in November of 2022, ChatGPT and similar systems have revolutionized the public
perception of artificial intelligence. These models are capable of generating coherent and context-appropriate
responses. However, despite their remarkable performance, these LLMs suffer from hallucinations, where the
model generates credible-seeming but inaccurate information [1].
An alarming example of the implications resulted from a June 2023 court case where the defense attorney
used ChatGPT to perform legal research, and unknowingly cited non-existent cases.1 Though the court did
not find malpractice on this occasion, it highlighted the urgent need to curtail hallucinations in LLMs to
prevent such issues in the future. Naturally, the news of such gullible behavior quickly made the rounds of
social media and was picked up by major newspapers such as the New York Times.2
Training users to adopt a critical thinking approach towards the output of LLMs may seem like the most
straightforward solution, but it fails to account how humans interact with and trust such systems. That this
is an issue unlikely to be solved by user training was demonstrated in December of 2023, six months after
the case mentioned above. Lawyers pleading for the early end to the supervised detention of Michael Cohen
(former legal advisor to former President Trump) submitted as precedent cases that, upon review, the court
∗In this paper, we try to use terms that do not imply cognitive or reasoning abilities to LLMs. However, we do believe that
there are emergent properties for LLMs that are not sufficiently described with a probability-based vocabulary. Rather, we
believe that prompts can be regarded as a self-influencing system that acts on the substrate of the LLM. As such, we would like
to promote terms that can be complex, but unreasoning, such as the path of Simon’s Ant [15]. To that end we prefer to use
terms such as trajectory, or navigate as opposed to decides or thinks.
1https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.nysd.575368/gov.uscourts.nysd.575368.32.1_1.pdf
2https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/27/nyregion/avianca-airline-lawsuit-chatgpt.html
1
arXiv:2403.01193v3  [cs.CL]  12 Jun 2024
determined “none of these cases exist.”34 Michael Cohen later admitted that these had been generated by
Google’s Chatbot, Bard.5
Recently, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) have been demonstrated to reduce hallucinations by
using information retrieval methods to provide additional context to a prompt [14]. However, RAG faces
limitations when dealing with information that deviates from its training, as occurs in unusual scenarios such
as horses riding humans instead of the typical vice versa. This is exemplified by Emily Bender’s octopus
analogy,