Dynamic Contexts for Generating Suggestion Questions in RAG
Based Conversational Systems
Anuja Tayal∗
University of Illinois, Chicago
Department of Computer Science
Chicago, IL, USA
atayal4@uic.edu
Aman Tyagi
The Procter and Gamble Company
Mason, Ohio, USA
tyagi.a.3@pg.com
ABSTRACT
When interacting with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)-
based conversational agents, the users must carefully craft their
queries to be understood correctly. Yet, understanding the system’s
capabilities can be challenging for the users, leading to ambiguous
questions that necessitate further clarification. This work aims
to bridge the gap by developing a suggestion question generator.
To generate suggestion questions, our approach involves utilizing
dynamic context, which includes both dynamic few-shot examples
and dynamically retrieved contexts. Through experiments, we show
that the dynamic contexts approach can generate better suggestion
questions as compared to other prompting approaches.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies →Natural language generation.
KEYWORDS
RAG, Conversational Systems, Question Generation, Prompting,
Few-Shot
ACM Reference Format:
Anuja Tayal and Aman Tyagi. 2024. Dynamic Contexts for Generating
Suggestion Questions in RAG Based Conversational Systems. In Companion
Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024 (WWW ’24 Companion), May
13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 4 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3589335.3651905
1
INTRODUCTION
Current conversational systems encounter numerous problems.
Firstly, they depend heavily on user inputs, with the agent merely
responding to queries [1, 2]. This method is fundamentally flawed
as it fails to actively prompt users to clarify ambiguous or poorly
defined questions. As a result, the systems frequently return incor-
rect responses or resort to apologetic statements when dealing with
such inquiries. Secondly, even when the system does provide a cor-
rect answer, the user must again formulate an effective follow-up
∗work done as part of internship at the Procter and Gamble Company.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
WWW ’24 Companion, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0172-6/24/05
https://doi.org/10.1145/3589335.3651905
question. This task can be challenging, as users often find it difficult
to understand the full scope of the system’s capabilities [3]. This
cycle of inadequate responses forces users to constantly refine their
queries, often resulting in more apologies than useful information.
Through this paper, we want to address this change and fill the
gap by proposing a suggestion question generator. The generator
is designed to generate suggestion questions that the agent can
answer, guided by the user’s initial query. Our framework encom-
passes several key steps. First, it involves identifying pertinent
passages (dynamically retrieved contexts) based on the user’s ini-
tial query, as the answer to the query hinges on these passages.
Secondly, we take the help of relevant triple of (questions, answer,
suggestion questions) (dynamic few-shot). Finally, we generate
suggestion questions by constituting a dynamic context prompt
consisting of the dynamically retrieved contexts, and dynamic few-
shot examples. By providing suggestion questions, users are alle-
viated from the task of question formulation, ensuring