iRAG: Advancing RAG for Videos with an Incremental Approach
Md Adnan Arefeen∗
University Of Missouri-Kansas City
Kansas City, Missouri, USA
aa4cy@mail.umkc.edu
Biplob Debnath
NEC Laboratories America
Princeton, New Jersey, USA
biplob@nec-labs.com
Md Yusuf Sarwar Uddin
University Of Missouri-Kansas City
Kansas City, Missouri, USA
muddin@umkc.edu
Srimat Chakradhar
NEC Laboratories America
Princeton, New Jersey, USA
chak@nec-labs.com
ABSTRACT
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems combine the
strengths of language generation and information retrieval to power
many real-world applications like chatbots. Use of RAG for under-
standing of videos is appealing but there are two critical limitations.
One-time, upfront conversion of all content in large corpus of videos
into text descriptions entails high processing times. Also, not all
information in the rich video data is typically captured in the text
descriptions. Since user queries are not known apriori, developing
a system for video to text conversion and interactive querying of
video data is challenging.
To address these limitations, we propose an incremental RAG
system called iRAG, which augments RAG with a novel incremental
workflow to enable interactive querying of a large corpus of videos.
Unlike traditional RAG, iRAG quickly indexes large repositories
of videos, and in the incremental workflow, it uses the index to
opportunistically extract more details from select portions of the
videos to retrieve context relevant to an interactive user query.
Such an incremental workflow avoids long video to text conversion
times, and overcomes information loss issues due to conversion
of video to text, by doing on-demand query-specific extraction
of details in video data. This ensures high quality of responses to
interactive user queries that are often not known apriori. To the best
of our knowledge, iRAG is the first system to augment RAG with
an incremental workflow to support efficient interactive querying
of a large corpus of videos. Experimental results on real-world
datasets demonstrate 23x to 25x faster video to text ingestion, while
ensuring that latency and quality of responses to interactive user
queries is comparable to responses from a traditional RAG where
all video data is converted to text upfront before any user querying.
∗Work was done while working as a research intern at NEC Laboratories America.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CIKM ’24, October 21–25, 2024, Boise, ID, USA
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0436-9/24/10
https://doi.org/10.1145/3627673.3680088
CCS CONCEPTS
• Information systems →Information retrieval; • Computing
methodologies →Natural language processing.
KEYWORDS
Generative AI, Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), Video An-
alytics, Large Language Models (LLMs), Vision Language Models
(VLMs)
ACM Reference Format:
Md Adnan Arefeen, Biplob Debnath, Md Yusuf Sarwar Uddin, and Sri-
mat Chakradhar. 2024. iRAG: Advancing RAG for Videos with an In-
cremental Approach. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Con-
ference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM ’24), October
21–25, 2024, Boise, ID, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 8 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3627673.3680088
1
INTRODUCTION
Many applications routinely collect and store videos for offline
analysis. For example, surveillance systems ensure public safety by
monitoring p