Telco-RAG: Navigating the Challenges of Retrieval
Augmented Language Models for Telecommunications
Andrei-Laurentiu Bornea∗, Fadhel Ayed∗, Antonio De Domenico∗, Nicola Piovesan∗, Ali Maatouk+
∗Paris Research Center, Huawei Technologies, Boulogne-Billancourt, France
+Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA
Abstract—The application of Large Language Models (LLMs)
and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems in the
telecommunication domain presents unique challenges, primarily
due to the complex nature of telecom standard documents and
the rapid evolution of the field. The paper introduces Telco-
RAG,1 an open-source RAG framework designed to handle
the specific needs of telecommunications standards, particularly
3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) documents. Telco-
RAG addresses the critical challenges of implementing a RAG
pipeline on highly technical content, paving the way for applying
LLMs in telecommunications and offering guidelines for RAG
implementation in other technical domains.
I. INTRODUCTION
Large language models (LLMs) are designed to understand,
generate, and process text by leveraging extensive training
data. These models, built upon architectures such as Trans-
formers, employ deep learning techniques to analyze and
predict language patterns [1]. Their capabilities are largely
attributed to the vast amount of text they process during
training, allowing LLMs to develop a nuanced understanding
of language, context, and even idiomatic expressions. The
utility of LLMs extends across various domains, among which
telecommunications, where models can improve operational
efficiency and enhance customer satisfaction [2].
Standalone language models rely solely on their inter-
nal representations and learned parameters to generate text,
which showcases modest knowledge in technical domains such
as telecommunication standard documents [3]. Two primary
methodologies have emerged to address this challenge: fine-
tuning and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). Fine-tuning
enables language model specialization via further training of
a fraction of the parameters using a domain-specific dataset.
However, fine-tuning can incur a high computational cost
[4] and is not suited for rapidly evolving domains where
new knowledge needs to be incorporated on a regular basis.
RAG stands out as an appealing alternative due to its cost-
effectiveness, adaptability, and scalability [5]. In the RAG
paradigm, knowledge from external sources is fetched in
real-time when a query is addressed to the system. This is
particularly tailored for quickly evolving fields [6].
In the telecommunication industry, a retrieval-augmented
language model that masters complex industry-specific knowl-
edge, such as the content of technical standards, would hold
significant practical value [7]. For instance, it would allow
the development of an advanced chatbot for professionals.
1https://github.com/netop-team/telco-rag
Such a tool would increase the accuracy and speed with
which telecommunications professionals access and comply
with international standards, fostering quicker development
cycles and improved regulatory adherence.
In this work, we concentrated our efforts on telecommuni-
cation standards, and specifically 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) documents. This focus was motivated by
the aforementioned practical utility of a chatbot specialized
in 3GPP and by the observation that even state-of-the-art
language models, such as GPT-4, exhibit scarce knowledge
of this content [3].
We have identified that the conventional RAG setup, which
typically extracts three to five data segments of 512 tokens
each [8], does not adequately meet the intricate demands of
telecommunications standards. Consequently, we have devel-
oped a specialized RAG pipeline named Telco-RAG specifi-
cally optimized for 3GPP documents.
Besides, through our design and methodology, we aim to
provide generally applicable guidelines to overcome the com-
mon challenges f