Improving Retrieval for RAG based Question
Answering Models on Financial Documents
Spurthi Setty, Harsh Thakkar, Alyssa Lee, Eden Chung, Natan Vidra
Abstract
The effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) in generating ac-
curate responses relies heavily on the quality of input provided, particu-
larly when employing Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques.
RAG enhances LLMs by sourcing the most relevant text chunk(s) to base
queries upon. Despite the significant advancements in LLMs’ response
quality in recent years, users may still encounter inaccuracies or irrelevant
answers; these issues often stem from suboptimal text chunk retrieval by
RAG rather than the inherent capabilities of LLMs. To augment the effi-
cacy of LLMs, it is crucial to refine the RAG process. This paper explores
the existing constraints of RAG pipelines and introduces methodologies
for enhancing text retrieval. It delves into strategies such as sophisticated
chunking techniques, query expansion, the incorporation of metadata an-
notations, the application of re-ranking algorithms, and the fine-tuning of
embedding algorithms. Implementing these approaches can substantially
improve the retrieval quality, thereby elevating the overall performance
and reliability of LLMs in processing and responding to queries.
1
Introduction
In recent years, the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a
critical turning point in Generative AI and its ability to expedite productivity
across a variety domains. However, the capabilities of these models, while im-
pressive, are limited in a number of ways that have hindered certain industries
from being able to take full advantage of the potential of this technology. A key
disadvantage is the tendency for LLMs to hallucinate information and its lack
of knowledge in domain specific areas. The knowledge of LLMs are limited by
their training data, and without the use of additional techniques, these models
have very poor performance of very domain specific tasks.
In order to develop a large language model, the first step is the pre-training
process where a transformer is trained on a very large corpus of text data. This
data is very general and not specific to a certain domain or field, as well as un-
changing with time. This is a reason why LLMs like ChatGPT might perform
well for general queries but fail on questions on more specific and higher-level
1
arXiv:2404.07221v2  [cs.IR]  1 Aug 2024
topics. Additionally, a model’s performance about a certain topic is highly de-
pendent on how often that information appears in the training data, meaning
that LLMs struggle with information that does not appear frequently. 1 This is
the case for most domain-specific information, such as financial information and
expertise, which is why standard LLMs have poor performance with domain-
specific questions.
The concept of knowledge injection refers to the ability to give the model access
to information beyond its original training data, and the main way we can
improve the performance of large language models on domain-specific tasks.
The two primary techniques of knowledge injection are additional training of
the model or fine-tuning, or in-context learning, the most popular version of
which is Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG).
1.1
Fine-tuning
Fine-tuning is the process of updating model parameters for specific tasks and
domains. Through fine-tuning one can further train a LLM on a domain-specific
dataset so that it has access to additional information not present in the original
training data. Fine-tuning also enables us to train the model to get consistent
outputs via instruction fine-tuning. The three main methods of fine-tuning are
unsupervised fine-tuning, supervised fine-tuning, and reinforcement learning. In
our previous work, we examined the method of using supervised fine-tuning to
improve several different models on finance-specific questions. Supervised fine-
tuning, particularly instruction fine-tuning is