Question-Based Retrieval using Atomic Units for Enterprise RAG
Vatsal Raina, Mark Gales
ALTA Institute, University of Cambridge
{vr311,mjfg}@cam.ac.uk
Abstract
Enterprise retrieval augmented generation
(RAG) offers a highly flexible framework for
combining powerful large language models
(LLMs) with internal, possibly temporally
changing, documents.
In RAG, documents
are first chunked. Relevant chunks are then
retrieved for a user query, which are passed
as context to a synthesizer LLM to generate
the query response. However, the retrieval step
can limit performance, as incorrect chunks can
lead the synthesizer LLM to generate a false
response. This work applies a zero-shot adapta-
tion of standard dense retrieval steps for more
accurate chunk recall. Specifically, a chunk
is first decomposed into atomic statements. A
set of synthetic questions are then generated
on these atoms (with the chunk as the context).
Dense retrieval involves finding the closest set
of synthetic questions, and associated chunks,
to the user query. It is found that retrieval with
the atoms leads to higher recall than retrieval
with chunks. Further performance gain is ob-
served with retrieval using the synthetic ques-
tions generated over the atoms. Higher recall
at the retrieval step enables higher performance
of the enterprise LLM using the RAG pipeline.
1
Introduction
Since the popularized ChatGPT as an instruction-
finetuned large language model (LLM) deployed at
scale to the lay market, there has been a substantial
uptake on the interest of businesses to incorporate
LLMs in their products for a variety of downstream
tasks (Bahrini et al., 2023; Castelvecchi, 2023; Ba-
dini et al., 2023; Kim and Min, 2024). For most
companies, they are interested in using such mod-
els as enterprise LLMs where the model can handle
queries related to proprietary on-premise data.
It has been repeatedly demonstrated that these
LLMs have general (public) knowledge implic-
itly embedded in their parametric memory which
can be extracted upon querying (Yu et al., 2023a).
However, the LLMs do not have implicit knowl-
edge about a specific enterprise’s textual database
in a custom domain and hence are prone to hal-
lucinate in such situations (Xu et al., 2024b; Yu
et al., 2023b). Additionally, the transformer-based
(Vaswani et al., 2017) LLMs typically have a lim-
ited context window (due to quadratic order in cost
of the attention mechanism), which means informa-
tion for a specific company to be queried over can-
not be directly fed-in as a prompt to the LLM. Due
to limited budget, it is typically not feasible to fine-
tune LLMs on a specific enterprise’s data. In par-
ticular, with evolving data from ongoing projects,
it is challenging to maintain a constantly updated
company-specific LLM finetuned on new data with-
out catastrophic forgetting (Luo et al., 2023).
To tackle this issue, and with retrieval augmented
generation (RAG) proposed by Lewis et al. (2020),
RAG-inspired systems have rapidly become the de-
facto as a zero-shot solution for enterprise LLMs.
At the essence, there are 2 steps: 1. retrieval and
2. synthesis. Documents are split into indepen-
dent chunks, and a retrieval process is applied to
identify the relevant chunks to a given query. The
retrieved chunks (which should fit into the context
window) with the query are passed as the prompt
to the synthesizer LLM to get the desired response.
Currently, the bottleneck for most enterprise
LLMs is the retrieval step, where the correct in-
formation is not retrieved for the LLM to answer
the question (Arora et al., 2023). Hence, this work
focuses on building upon zero-shot approaches to
improve the retrieval step for RAG. A potential
limitation of the RAG set-up is that an embedding
model is used to retrieve the relevant chunks effi-
ciently when given a query. Each pre-calculated
chunk has its corresponding embedding stored in
memory, which allows the closes chunks to be re-
trieved by embedding the incoming