THE 2ND FUTUREDIAL CHALLENGE: DIALOG SYSTEMS WITH RETRIEVAL
AUGMENTED GENERATION (FUTUREDIAL-RAG)
Yucheng Cai1, Si Chen2, Yuxuan Wu1, Yi Huang2, Junlan Feng∗,2, Zhijian Ou∗,1
1Speech Processing and Machine Intelligence (SPMI) Lab, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
2China Mobile Research Institute, Beijing, China
fengjunlan@chinamobile.com, ozj@tsinghua.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Recently, increasing research interests have focused on
retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to mitigate hallucina-
tion for large language models (LLMs). Following this trend,
we launch the FutureDial-RAG challenge at SLT 2024, which
aims at promoting the study of RAG for dialog systems. The
challenge builds upon the MobileCS2 dataset, a real-life cus-
tomer service datasets with nearly 3000 high-quality dialogs
containing annotations for knowledge base query and corre-
sponding results. Over the dataset, we define two tasks, track
1 for knowledge retrieval and track 2 for response genera-
tion, which are core research questions in dialog systems with
RAG. We build baseline systems for the two tracks and design
metrics to measure whether the systems can perform accu-
rate retrieval and generate informative and coherent response.
The baseline results show that it is very challenging to per-
form well on the two tasks, which encourages the participat-
ing teams and the community to study how to make better use
of RAG for real-life dialog systems.
Index Terms— Dialog systems, Retrieval augmented
generation
1. INTRODUCTION
Developing intelligent dialog systems has been one of the
longest running goals in AI. In recent years, significant
progress has been made in building dialog systems with the
breakthrough of deep learning methods and the large amount
of conversational data being made available for system devel-
opment [1, 2, 3, 4].
There are still many challenges toward building future
dialog systems. The first FutureDial challenge focused on
building semi-supervised and reinforced task-oriented dialog
systems (FutureDial-SereTOD) [2, 5], which was success-
fully held at EMNLP 2022 SereTOD workshop1. ChatGPT
[3], a newly emerged generative dialog system in the end of
2022, has marked another amazing progress in engaging users
∗Corresponding author.
The code is released at https://
github.com/futuredialchallenge/2024-RAG/.
This work is
partly supported by the National Science and Technology Major Project
(2023ZD0121401)
1http://seretod.org/
in open-domain dialogs. However, problems like hallucina-
tion and fabrication [6] still hinder the usage of such systems
in real-life applications like customer service systems, which
requires pin-point accuracy. Retrieval augmented generation
(RAG) [7, 8] has been introduced to enhance dialog systems
with retrieved information from external knowledge bases and
has attracted increasing interests. RAG has been shown to be
able to help the question-answering and dialog systems to re-
ply with higher accuracy and factuality, providing more infor-
mative and grounded responses [9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16].
However, there remain challenges for dialog systems with
RAG such as designing retrievers that can retrieve knowledge
from multiple knowledge sources, building dialog systems
with RAG that can effectively utilize available tools and API-
calls for retrieval [17, 18], and etc. These problems remain
under-studied, mainly due to the lack of appropriate dialog
datasets to study them.
To further promote the study of how to empower dia-
log systems with RAG, we release a new dataset, called Mo-
bileCS2 (Mobile Customer Service) that aims to benchmark
and stimulate related researches in this area. The dataset is
annotated from the real-life customer-service logs instead of
the Wizard-of-Oz methods [1]. Relevant knowledge bases
and ground truth retrieved results are annotated so that dialog
systems with RAG can be trained over such data. Note that
successful fulfilling of customer-service usually needs to call
specialized domain kno