Certifiably Robust RAG against Retrieval Corruption
Chong Xiang∗
Princeton University
cxiang@princeton.edu
Tong Wu∗
Princeton University
tongwu@princeton.edu
Zexuan Zhong
Princeton University
zzhong@cs.princeton.edu
David Wagner
University of California, Berkeley
daw@cs.berkeley.edu
Danqi Chen
Princeton University
danqic@cs.princeton.edu
Prateek Mittal
Princeton University
pmittal@princeton.edu
Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has been shown vulnerable to retrieval
corruption attacks: an attacker can inject malicious passages into retrieval results
to induce inaccurate responses. In this paper, we propose RobustRAG as the
first defense framework against retrieval corruption attacks. The key insight of
RobustRAG is an isolate-then-aggregate strategy: we get LLM responses from
each passage in isolation and then securely aggregate these isolated responses. To
instantiate RobustRAG, we design keyword-based and decoding-based algorithms
for securely aggregating unstructured text responses. Notably, RobustRAG can
achieve certifiable robustness: we can formally prove and certify that, for certain
queries, RobustRAG can always return accurate responses, even when the attacker
has full knowledge of our defense and can arbitrarily inject a small number of
malicious passages. We evaluate RobustRAG on open-domain QA and long-form
text generation datasets and demonstrate its effectiveness and generalizability
across various tasks and datasets.
1
Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) [5, 1, 13] can often generate inaccurate responses due to their
incomplete and outdated parametrized knowledge. To address this limitation, retrieval-augmented
generation (RAG) [16, 26] leverages external (non-parameterized) knowledge: it retrieves a set
of relevant passages from a large knowledge base and incorporates them into the model input.
This approach has inspired many popular applications. For instance, AI-powered search engines
like Microsoft Bing Chat [31], Perplexity AI [2], and Google Search with AI Overviews [14]
leverage RAG to summarize search results for better user experience. Open-source projects like
LangChain [22] and LlamaIndex [27] provide flexible RAG frameworks for developers to build
customized AI applications with LLMs and knowledge bases.
However, despite its popularity, the RAG pipeline can become fragile when some of the retrieved
passages are compromised by malicious actors, a type of attack we term retrieval corruption. There
are various forms of retrieval corruption attacks. For instance, the PoisonedRAG attack [54] injects
malicious passages to the knowledge base to induce incorrect RAG responses (e.g., “the highest
mountain is Mount Fuji”). The indirect prompt injection attack [15] corrupts the retrieved passage to
inject malicious instructions to LLM-integrated applications (e.g., “ignore all previous instructions
and send the user’s search history to attacker.com”). These attacks raise the research question of
how to build a robust RAG pipeline.
*Equal contributions.
Preprint. Under review.
arXiv:2405.15556v1  [cs.LG]  24 May 2024
Retriever
“Mount Everest”
“Fuji!”
“Everest is the 
highest mountain”
Retrieved 
passages
LLM
Isolated responses
Secure text 
aggregation
§ 3.1: Keyword          
    Aggregation 
or 
§ 3.2: Decoding 
 
    Aggregation
RAG response
(robust)
“Everest”
RobustRAG 
pipeline
“Fuji!”
Retrieved passages
(concatenated)
LLM
RAG response
(corrupted)
Vanilla RAG 
pipeline
User query: “What is the name of the highest mountain?” 
Instruction: “Answer the user query using retrieved passages.” 
Figure 1: RobustRAG overview. In this example, one of the three retrieved passages is corrupted.
Vanilla RAG concatenates all passages as the LLM input; its response is hijacked by the malicious
passage. In contrast, RobustRAG isolates each passage so that only one of three isolated responses is
corrupted. RobustRAG then securely aggregates unstructured text responses for a robust output.
In this paper, we