1
RAG-based Explainable Prediction of Road Users
Behaviors for Automated Driving using Knowledge
Graphs and Large Language Models
Mohamed Manzour Hussien, Angie Nataly Melo, Augusto Luis Ballardini, Carlota Salinas Maldonado, Rub´en
Izquierdo and Miguel ´Angel Sotelo Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Prediction of road users’ behaviors in the context
of autonomous driving has gained considerable attention by the
scientific community in the last years. Most works focus on
predicting behaviors based on kinematic information alone, a
simplification of the reality since road users are humans, and as
such they are highly influenced by their surrounding context. In
addition, a large plethora of research works rely on powerful
Deep Learning techniques, which exhibit high performance
metrics in prediction tasks but may lack the ability to fully
understand and exploit the contextual semantic information
contained in the road scene, not to mention their inability
to provide explainable predictions that can be understood by
humans. In this work, we propose an explainable road users’
behavior prediction system that integrates the reasoning abilities
of Knowledge Graphs (KG) and the expressiveness capabilities of
Large Language Models (LLM) by using Retrieval Augmented
Generation (RAG) techniques. For that purpose, Knowledge
Graph Embeddings (KGE) and Bayesian inference are combined
to allow the deployment of a fully inductive reasoning system that
enables the issuing of predictions that rely on legacy information
contained in the graph as well as on current evidence gathered
in real time by onboard sensors. Two use cases have been
implemented following the proposed approach: 1) Prediction
of pedestrians’ crossing actions; 2) Prediction of lane change
maneuvers. In both cases, the performance attained surpasses
the current state of the art in terms of anticipation and F1-
score, showing a promising avenue for future research in this
field.
Index Terms—Road users’ behaviors, explainable predictions,
pedestrian crossing actions, lane change maneuvers, autonomous
driving.
I. INTRODUCTION AND RELATED WORK
D
ESPITE the significant progress that the world has
experienced in the last years in terms of road safety,
road traffic deaths continue to represent a global health crisis,
according to the World Organization report on road safety
[1], especially for Vulnerable Road Users (VRUs), which
are involved in 53% of all road traffic fatalities. The same
report highlights the fact that 23% of fatal accidents involve
pedestrians. As a matter of act, pedestrians are the most
vulnerable road user group also on European Union roads,
being involved in 20% of road traffic fatalities [2]. Similarly,
the statistics published in 2023 by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) reveal an increase in
All
authors
are
with
the
Computer
Engineering
Department,
University
of
Alcal´a,
Alcal´a
de
Henares,
Madrid,
Spain.
Email:
ahmed.manzour@uah.es,
nataly.melo@uah.es,
augusto.ballardini@uah.es,
carlota.salinasmaldo@uah.es, ruben.izquierdo@uah.es, miguel.sotelo@uah.es
the number of deaths in motor vehicle traffic crashes in the
United States of America in 2021 as compared to 2020, and
a 17.3% increase compared to 2019 [3], being lane-changing
maneuvers one of the main causes for vehicle crashes, as the
same report indicates that 33% of all road crashes take place
during a lane change maneuver. These figures advocate for the
need to develop technologies aiming at enhancing road safety
by endowing automated vehicles with the capacity to anticipate
pedestrians’ and drivers’ behaviors and motion patterns, such
as road crossing actions (for pedestrians) and lane change
maneuvers (for drivers). The ability to characterize and predict
the behavior and motion patterns of road users, namely drivers
and vulnerable road users (pedestrians and cyclists), as well
as the explanation and understanding of the factors that rule
the interactions among them, is essential for incre