Don’t Forget to Connect!
Improving RAG with Graph-based Reranking
Jialin Dong
UCLA
Bahare Fatemi
Google Research
Bryan Perozzi
Google Research
Lin F. Yang
UCLA
Anton Tsitsulin
Google Research
Abstract
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has greatly improved the performance of
Large Language Model (LLM) responses by grounding generation with context
from existing documents. These systems work well when documents are clearly
relevant to a question context. But what about when a document has partial
information, or less obvious connections to the context? And how should we reason
about connections between documents? In this work, we seek to answer these two
core questions about RAG generation. We introduce G-RAG, a reranker based
on graph neural networks (GNNs) between the retriever and reader in RAG. Our
method combines both connections between documents and semantic information
(via Abstract Meaning Representation graphs) to provide a context-informed ranker
for RAG. G-RAG outperforms state-of-the-art approaches while having smaller
computational footprint. Additionally, we assess the performance of PaLM 2 as a
reranker and find it to significantly underperform G-RAG. This result emphasizes
the importance of reranking for RAG even when using Large Language Models.
1
Introduction
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) [35] has brought improvements to many problems in text
generation. One example is Open-Domain Question Answering (ODQA) [40] which involves
answering natural language questions without limiting the domain of the answers. RAG merges
the retrieval and answering processes, which improves the ability to effectively collect knowledge,
extract useful information, and generate answers. Even though it is successful in fetching relevant
documents, RAG is not able to utilize connections between documents. In the ODQA setting, this
leads to the model disregarding documents containing answers, a.k.a. positive documents, with less
apparent connections to the question context. We can identify these documents if we connect them
with positive documents whose context is strongly relevant to the question context.
To find connections between documents and select highly relevant ones, the reranking process plays
a vital role in further effectively filtering retrieved documents. A robust reranker also benefits the
reading process by effectively identifying positive documents and elevating them to prominent ranking
positions. When the reader’s output perfectly matches one of the gold standard answers, it leads
to an increase in exact-match performance metrics. Given our paper’s emphasis on the reranking
aspect, our performance metrics primarily focus on ranking tasks, specifically Mean Tied Reciprocal
Ranking and MHits@10. Thus, our paper focuses on using reranking to improve RAG – as it is a
fundamental bridge between the retrieval and reading processes.
Pre-trained langauge models (LMs) like BERT [6], RoBERTa [23], and BART [19] have been widely
used to enhance reranking performance by estimating the relevant score between questions and
documents. Recently, the Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) graph has been integrated with
a LM to enhance the system’s ability to comprehend complex semantics [42]. While the current
rerankers exhibit admirable performance, certain limitations persist.
Preprint. Under review.
arXiv:2405.18414v1  [cs.CL]  28 May 2024
…
…
…
…
…
…
…
…
Q & P
AMRs
find connections
establish GNN
Document Graph
Reranker
…
Figure 1: G-RAG uses two graphs for re-ranking documents: The Abstract Meaning Representation
(AMR) graph is used as features for the document-level graph. Document graph is then used for
document reranking.
Firstly, as mentioned above, most of the current works fail to capture important connections between
different retrieved documents. Some recent work [46] tries to incorporate external knowledge graphs
to improve the performance of the reading process in RAG but at the cost of significant memory
usage