Stochastic RAG: End-to-End Retrieval-Augmented Generation
through Expected Utility Maximization
Hamed Zamani
University of Massachusetts Amherst
Amherst, MA, United States
zamani@cs.umass.edu
Michael Bendersky
Google
Mountain View, CA, United States
bemike@google.com
ABSTRACT
This paper introduces Stochastic RAG–a novel approach for end-
to-end optimization of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) mod-
els that relaxes the simplifying assumptions of marginalization and
document independence, made in most prior work. Stochastic
RAG casts the retrieval process in RAG as a stochastic sampling
without replacement process. Through this formulation, we em-
ploy straight-through Gumbel-top-k that provides a differentiable
approximation for sampling without replacement and enables ef-
fective end-to-end optimization for RAG. We conduct extensive
experiments on seven diverse datasets on a wide range of tasks,
from open-domain question answering to fact verification to slot-
filling for relation extraction and to dialogue systems. By applying
this optimization method to a recent and effective RAG model, we
advance state-of-the-art results on six out of seven datasets.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies →Natural language generation;
• Information systems →Retrieval models and ranking.
KEYWORDS
Retrieval augmentation; retrieval-enhanced machine learning; rank-
ing optimization
ACM Reference Format:
Hamed Zamani and Michael Bendersky. 2024. Stochastic RAG: End-to-
End Retrieval-Augmented Generation through Expected Utility Maximiza-
tion. In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Re-
search and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR ’24), July 14–18,
2024, Washington, DC, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 6 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3626772.3657923
1
INTRODUCTION
Most machine learning systems, including large generative models,
are self-contained systems, with both knowledge and reasoning
encoded in model parameters. However, these models do not work
effectively for tasks that require knowledge grounding [46], es-
pecially in case of non-stationary data where new information is
actively being produced [47, 52]. As suggested by Zamani et al.
[52], this issue can be addressed when machine learning systems
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
SIGIR ’24, July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0431-4/24/07.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3626772.3657923
are being enhanced with the capability of retrieving stored content.
For example, in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), as a special
case of retrieval-enhanced machine learning (REML) [52], systems
consume the responses provided by one or more retrieval models
for the purpose of (text) generation [21, 22]. RAG models demon-
strate substantial promise across various applications, including
open-domain question answering [16, 21, 53], fact verification [44],
dialogue systems [5, 42, 48], and personalized generation [36, 37].
Many prior studies on RAG use off-the-shelf retrieval models.
For instance, Nakano et al. [25] used APIs from a commercial search
engine for text generation. Glass et al. [9], on the other hand, used
a term matching retrieval model. Neural ranking models trained
based on human annotated data have also been used in the lit-
erature [12, 21]. There also exist methods that only optimize the
retrieval model and keep the language model parameters frozen
[40]. A research direction in this area argues that optimizing re-
trieval models in RAG should depend on the downstream language
model that consumes the retrieval results. This is also