A Multi-Source Retrieval Question Answering
Framework Based on RAG
First Author: Ridong Wu
Affiliation: School of Computer Science and Network
Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China
Email:32106200097@e.gzhu.edu.cn
Third Author: Xiangbiao Su
Affiliation: School of Computer Science and Network
Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China
Email:32106500006@e.gzhu.edu.cn
Second Author:Shuhong Chen*
Affiliation: School of Computer Science and Network
Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China
* Corresponding author:shuhongchen@gzhu.edu.cn
Fourth Author: Yuankai Zhu
Affiliation: School of Computer Science and Network
Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China
Email:32106200107@e.gzhu.edu.cn
Fifth Author: Yifei Liao
Affiliation: School of Computer Science and Network
Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China
Email:32106200102@e.gzhu.edu.cn
Sixth Author:Jianming Wu
Affiliation: School of Computer Science and Network
Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China
Email:jianmingwu@e.gzhu.edu.cn
Abstract—With the rapid development of large-scale language
models, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has been widely
adopted. However, existing RAG paradigms are inevitably influenced
by erroneous retrieval information, thereby reducing the reliability
and correctness of generated results. Therefore, to improve the
relevance of retrieval information, this study proposes a method that
replaces traditional retrievers with GPT-3.5, leveraging its vast
corpus knowledge to generate retrieval information. We also propose
a web retrieval based method to implement fine-grained knowledge
retrieval, Utilizing the powerful reasoning capability of GPT-3.5 to
realize semantic partitioning of problem.In order to mitigate the
illusion of GPT retrieval and reduce noise in Web retrieval,we
proposes a multi-source retrieval framework, named MSRAG, which
combines GPT retrieval with web retrieval. Experiments on multiple
knowledge-intensive QA datasets demonstrate that the proposed
framework in
this study performs better than existing
RAG
framework in enhancing the overall efficiency and accuracy of QA
systems.
Keywords-Large
Language
Models;
Retrieval-Augmented
Generation; Web Retrieval; GPT Retrieval; Question-Answering
(QA)
I. INTRODUCTION
Due to their extensive knowledge base, Large Language
Models (LLMs) have become indispensable tools for everyday
information retrieval[1] . However, LLMs are limited to the
knowledge acquired during the pre-training phase and lack
real-time updates. To address this challenge, the RAG
(Retrieval-Augmented Generation) technique has emerged.
LLMs by integrating information from external knowledge
repositories
with
the
generative
model's
capabilities
to
improve the accuracy and relevance of question answering.In
2020, Kelvin et al. introduced REALM[2] , which leverages an
indexed
corpus
of
paragraphs
to
support
conditional
generation. Subsequently, Michael et al. proposed Re2G[3],
which integrates neural initial retrieval and re-ranking into
RAG, thereby enhancing information relevance. Reiichiro et al.
presented WebGPT [4], which fine-tunes GPT-3 and utilizes
Web search functionality to acquire knowledge information.
However, traditional Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
has
certain
limitations.
Firstly,
the
retrieved
document
passages may not be fully relevant to the query, leading to
misinformation or incoherence. Secondly, if relevant passages
are not retrieved, the model may fabricate answers due to
insufficient
context
or
generate
responses
that
fail
to
accurately address the query. Overall, relying solely on the
initial input from a Large Language Model (LLM) to retrieve
relevant information from external corpora is often inadequate
for complex multi-step and long-form generation tasks.
To address that problem, Linhao Ye et al.[5] proposed a
dialogue-level RAG method, which integrates fine-grained
retrieval augmentation and conversational question-answering
(CQA) se