Machine Against the RAG:
Jamming Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Blocker Documents
Avital Shafran
The Hebrew University
Roei Schuster
Wild Moose
Vitaly Shmatikov
Cornell Tech
Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems respond to
queries by retrieving relevant documents from a knowledge
database and applying an LLM to the retrieved documents. We
demonstrate that RAG systems that operate on databases with
untrusted content are vulnerable to denial-of-service attacks
we call jamming. An adversary can add a single “blocker”
document to the database that will be retrieved in response to
a specific query and result in the RAG system not answering
this query, ostensibly because it lacks relevant information or
because the answer is unsafe.
We describe and measure the efficacy of several methods
for generating blocker documents, including a new method
based on black-box optimization. Our method (1) does not
rely on instruction injection, (2) does not require the adversary
to know the embedding or LLM used by the target RAG
system, and (3) does not employ an auxiliary LLM.
We evaluate jamming attacks on several embeddings and
LLMs and demonstrate that the existing safety metrics for
LLMs do not capture their vulnerability to jamming. We then
discuss defenses against blocker documents.1
1
Introduction
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a key applica-
tion [15] of large language models (LLMs). RAG systems
combine LLMs with knowledge databases. When the user
submits a query, the system retrieves relevant documents from
the database based on their semantic proximity to the query,
typically measured via embedding similarity (see Section 3).
The LLM then uses the retrieved documents as its context to
generate a response. Figure 1 shows a schematic overview of
RAG systems and our jamming attack (introduced below).
RAG systems are vulnerable to adversarial content in their
databases. In many real-world applications of RAG, adver-
saries have an opportunity to add their documents to the un-
1Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/avitalsh/
jamming_attack
derlying database, whether internal (e.g., customer feedback
or enterprise-network logs) or external (e.g., webpages, re-
views, or social media). Security of RAG systems is one of
the top ten security risks for LLM-based applications [43].
Our contributions. We demonstrate and evaluate a new class
of denial-of-service vulnerabilities in RAG systems. We show
how an adversary with query-only access to the RAG system
(but no knowledge of the embedding or LLM that it uses) and
insert-and-edit access to its knowledge database can create
query-specific “blocker” documents. After a single blocker
is added to the database, (a) it is retrieved along with other,
clean documents relevant to the query, and (b) causes the
RAG system to generate a response that fails to answer the
query, ostensibly because it lacks information or because the
answer is unsafe. We call this a jamming attack.
Jamming is an attractive objective for any adversary who
wishes to suppress specific answers, e.g., prevent bad re-
views from influencing AI-generated summaries, hide nega-
tive customer feedback, conceal facts from legal document
review [13] or regulatory compliance [16], etc. In contrast
to jailbreaking or indirect prompt injection, which steer the
system into producing unsafe or incorrect answers, refusing to
answer is a common LLM behavior. Unlike incorrect answers,
refusals are both plausible and not amenable to fact-checking.
Furthermore, unlike jailbreaking, which produces obviously
toxic or unsafe answers, jamming attacks are stealthy.
We investigate three methods for generating blocker docu-
ments: an explicit instruction to ignore context (i.e., a variant
of indirect prompt injection), prompting an auxiliary oracle
LLM to generate the blocker document, and a new method
based on black-box optimization.
The latter method is our key technical contribution. It (1)
works with black-