FS-RAG: A Frame Semantics Based Approach for Improved Factual
Accuracy in Large Language Models
Harish Tayyar Madabushi
The University of Bath, Bath, UK
htm43@bath.ac.uk
Abstract
We present a novel extension to Retrieval Aug-
mented Generation with the goal of mitigating
factual inaccuracies in the output of large lan-
guage models. Specifically, our method draws
on the cognitive linguistic theory of frame se-
mantics for the indexing and retrieval of factual
information relevant to helping large language
models answer queries. We conduct experi-
ments to demonstrate the effectiveness of this
method both in terms of retrieval effectiveness
and in terms of the relevance of the frames
and frame relations automatically generated.
Our results show that this novel mechanism
of Frame Semantic-based retrieval, designed
to improve Retrieval Augmented Generation
(FS-RAG), is effective and offers potential for
providing data-driven insights into frame se-
mantics theory. We provide open access to our
program code and prompts1.
1
Introduction, Motivation and Context
Large language models (LLMs), despite their sig-
nificant capabilities and widespread adoption have
the inherent tendency to generate plausible sound-
ing, yet inaccurate, output. This phenomenon, re-
ferred to as “hallucinations,” has been a significant
stumbling block in the widespread deployment of
these solutions (Ji et al., 2023). Hallucinations
themselves are not limited to factual inaccuracies,
and include other modes of failure, including the
incorrect interpretation of input prompts and errors
in logical inference. However, factual hallucina-
tions are particularly important to address as the
retrieval of incorrect facts is particularly hard to re-
cover from and can neutralise and make irrelevant
all other improvements.
The capabilities of LLMs typically improve with
an increase in their “size,” which is a combination
1https://github.com/H-TayyarMadabushi/A-Frame-
Semantics-based-approach-for-Improved-Factual-Accuracy-
in-Large-Language-Models
of a model’s parameters and the size of the pre-
training corpus. Until recently, this was seen by
some as being evidence that further scaling would
eventually address the shortcomings of LLMs, in-
cluding hallucinations. For example, LLMs were
claimed to develop “emergent abilities”: specifi-
cally, it was believed that LLMs, when scaled to
several billion parameters developed capabilities in-
cluding those required to solve tasks requiring rea-
soning in humans, thus indicative that they were de-
veloping reasoning skills (Wei et al., 2022b). More
recent work, however, has shown that this is not the
case and that LLMs instead develop a single capa-
bility, which they leverage to solve tasks (Lu et al.,
2023). This capability, called “in-context learning,”
is, roughly put, the ability of models to solve a par-
ticular task based on a few examples provided in
the prompt (Brown et al., 2020; Chowdhery et al.,
2023). (Lu et al., 2023) further suggest that the
process of instructional fine-tuning LLMs to un-
derstand instructions (Wei et al., 2022a), enables
models to leverage the same “in-context” abilities
even in the absence of examples. This finding indi-
cates that further scaling, while providing improved
instruction following abilities, will not grant modes
the broader capacity to for general reasoning.
The fact that LLMs are not likely to develop the
ability to reason has profound implications to work
on improving them, including to mitigating halluci-
nations. It implies that we must explore alternative
approaches. This is especially the case when it
comes to factual hallucinations as the ‘parametric
memory’ in LLMs is orders of magnitude smaller
than the pre-training data (Ji et al., 2023). As such,
they must necessarily use some method of com-
pressing their pre-training data. Without the ability
to distinguish between the information that is rele-
vant and what is not relevant in their pre-training
data, their method