DR-RAG: Applying Dynamic Document Relevance to Retrieval-
Augmented Generation for Question-Answering
Zijian Hei∗,1,2, Weiling Liu∗,1,3, Wenjie Ou∗,1,4, Juyi Qiao1, Junming Jiao1,
Guowen Song
†,1, Ting Tian
‡,2, Yi Lin
‡,4
1 Li Auto Inc.,2 Sun Yat-sen University,3 Northeastern University, China,4 Sichuan University
songguowen@lixiang.com
tiant55@mail.sysu.edu.cn, yilin@scu.edu.cn
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has re-
cently demonstrated the performance of Large
Language Models (LLMs) in the knowledge-
intensive tasks such as Question-Answering
(QA). RAG expands the query context by incor-
porating external knowledge bases to enhance
the response accuracy. However, it would be
inefficient to access LLMs multiple times for
each query and unreliable to retrieve all the rel-
evant documents by a single query. We have
found that even though there is low relevance
between some critical documents and query, it
is possible to retrieve the remaining documents
by combining parts of the documents with the
query.
To mine the relevance, a two-stage
retrieval framework called Dynamic-Relevant
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (DR-RAG)
is proposed to improve document retrieval re-
call and the accuracy of answers while main-
taining efficiency.
Additionally, a compact
classifier is applied to two different selection
strategies to determine the contribution of the
retrieved documents to answering the query
and retrieve the relatively relevant documents.
Meanwhile, DR-RAG call the LLMs only once,
which significantly improves the efficiency of
the experiment. The experimental results on
multi-hop QA datasets show that DR-RAG can
significantly improve the accuracy of the an-
swers and achieve new progress in QA systems.
1
Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) have recently made
significant improvement in the field of Natural Lan-
guage Processing (NLP), especially in text genera-
tion tasks (Brown et al., 2020; Achiam et al., 2023;
Touvron et al., 2023b; Anil et al., 2023; Ouyang
et al., 2022; Touvron et al., 2023a).
Although
LLMs excel in various application scenarios, chal-
*Contribute equally during internshiping at Li Auto.
†Corresponding author 1.
‡Corresponding author 2.
Who is the spouse of the child of Peter Andreas Heiberg?
Johan Ludvig Heiberg , …,
son of the political writer
Peter Andreas Heiberg
(1758-1841) …
Query
The actress is Johanne
Luise Heiberg, the wife
of Johan Ludvig Heiberg.
She ...
Dynamic-Relevant 
Document
Static-Relevant 
Document
Retriever
Figure 1: An example shows that retriever easily intro-
duces static-relevant documents due to high relevance
(red), but struggles to retrieve dynamic-relevant docu-
ments which are of low relevance (blue) but critical for
the answer. Stars are levels of retrieval difficulty.
lenges remain regarding the accuracy and timeli-
ness of the generated text, especially in real-time
domains. LLMs with intrinsic parameter mem-
ories may generate inaccurate or even incorrect
text when faced with up-to-date query (Min et al.,
2023; Mallen et al., 2022; Muhlgay et al., 2023).
This issue, known as hallucination, occurs when
the text generated by LLMs fails to align with real-
world knowledge (Ji et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023;
Kwiatkowski et al., 2019). Therefore, Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) frameworks have
been proposed to improve the accuracy of gener-
ated text by combining relevant information from
external knowledge base with query (Arora et al.,
2023; Lewis et al., 2020; Borgeaud et al., 2022).
RAG has effectively demonstrated its superiority
in knowledge-intensive tasks such as open-domain
Question-Answering (QA) and has achieved new
progress in the LLMs’ performance.
However, irrelevant information reduces the
1
arXiv:2406.07348v3  [cs.LG]  16 Jun 2024
quality of the generated text and further interferes
with the ability of LLMs to answer the query in
the application (Shi et al., 2023). Moreover, the un-
differentiated combining strategy in RAG can lead
to mi