RE-RAG: Improving Open-Domain QA Performance and Interpretability
with Relevance Estimator in Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Kiseung Kim
Jay-Yoon Lee*
Graduate School of Data Science, Seoul National University
{kkskp, lee.jayyoon}@snu.ac.kr
Abstract
The Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)
framework utilizes a combination of parametric
knowledge and external knowledge to demon-
strate state-of-the-art performance on open-
domain question answering tasks. However,
the RAG framework suffers from performance
degradation when the query is accompanied by
irrelevant contexts. In this work, we propose
the RE-RAG framework, which introduces a
relevance estimator (RE) that not only provides
relative relevance between contexts as previ-
ous rerankers did, but also provides confidence,
which can be used to classify whether given
context is useful for answering the given ques-
tion. We propose a weakly supervised method
for training the RE simply utilizing question-
answer data without any labels for correct con-
texts. We show that RE trained with a small
generator (sLM) can not only improve the sLM
fine-tuned together with RE but also improve
previously unreferenced large language mod-
els (LLMs). Furthermore, we investigate new
decoding strategies that utilize the proposed
confidence measured by RE such as choosing
to let the user know that it is “unanswerable”
to answer the question given the retrieved con-
texts or choosing to rely on LLM’s parametric
knowledge rather than unrelated contexts. 1
1
Introduction
In recent years, the retrieval augmented generation
framework has shown promising progress in natu-
ral language generation, specifically on knowledge-
intensive tasks. This approach has been studied in
many forms, from traditional RAG (Lewis et al.,
2020b), which aggregates answers from multi-
ple contexts using document relevance scores as
weights, to approaches like RALM (Ram et al.,
2023), which simply utilizes concatenated con-
text as an in-context learning approach for large-
language models (LLMs). Retrieval augmented
*Corresponding author
1Code is available at here
generation enhances the model’s faithfulness and
reliability by leveraging nonparametric knowledge
on top of parametric knowledge (Luo et al., 2023).
In particular, the RAG framework has the advan-
tage of being easily adaptable to modern LLMs
(Brown et al., 2020; Touvron et al., 2023). These
advantages have sparked a significant amount of
new research (Asai et al., 2023; Lin et al., 2023;
Shi et al., 2023) focused on the RAG framework.
Despite the great potential of the retrieval aug-
mented generation framework, if the language
model is provided with contexts that are not rel-
evant to the query, it will be distracted by these
inappropriate contexts, negatively affecting the ac-
curacy of the answers (Yoran et al., 2023). While
retrievers or re-rankers in existing research have
been effective at measuring the relative ranking
across contexts to a query, these modules often fail
to determine whether top-ranked contexts are actu-
ally relevant to the query or not. Furthermore, if a
precise relevance score is not used in the traditional
RAG framework, it can cause problems such as
directing attention to documents that are less likely
to answer the query.
In this work, we propose the RE-RAG framework,
which extends traditional RAG by incorporating a
relevance estimator (RE) to simultaneously measure
the precise relative relevance between retrieved con-
texts and evaluate their confidence, which can be
used to classify whether given context is useful
for answering the given question. By more accu-
rately measuring the relative relevance between
contexts, RE computes precise relevance scores
suitable for weighted aggregated answers in the
traditional RAG framework and also acts as an ef-
ficient reranker. RE trained on a small generator
(sLM) not only benefits sLM fine-tuned together
with RE but can also be separated and applied to
LLMs as well, benefiting both.