* Corresponding Author: Cheonsu Jeong; paripal@korea.ac.kr 
 
 
1  
 
A Study on the Implementation Method 
of an Agent-Based Advanced RAG  
System Using Graph 
Cheonsu Jeong1 
 
 
 
1 Dr. Jeong is Principal Consultant & the Technical Leader for AI Automation at SAMSUNG SDS; 
 
Abstract  
This study aims to improve knowledge-based question-answering (QA) systems by overcoming the limitations of 
existing Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) models and implementing an advanced RAG system based on 
Graph technology to develop high-quality generative AI services. While existing RAG models demonstrate high ac-
curacy and fluency by utilizing retrieved information, they may suffer from accuracy degradation as they generate 
responses using pre-loaded knowledge without reprocessing. Additionally, they cannot incorporate real-time data 
after the RAG configuration stage, leading to issues with contextual understanding and biased information. 
To address these limitations, this study implemented an enhanced RAG system utilizing Graph technology. This system 
is designed to efficiently search and utilize information. Specifically, it employs LangGraph to evaluate the reliability 
of retrieved information and synthesizes diverse data to generate more accurate and enhanced responses. Furthermore, 
the study provides a detailed explanation of the system's operation, key implementation steps, and examples through 
implementation code and validation results, thereby enhancing the understanding of advanced RAG technology. This 
approach offers practical guidelines for implementing advanced RAG systems in corporate services, making it a valu-
able resource for practical application. 
 
Keywords 
Advance RAG; Agent RAG; LLM; Generative AI; LangGraph 
 
 
I. Introduction 
Recent advancements in AI technology have brought sig-
nificant attention to Generative AI. Generative AI, a form 
of artificial intelligence that can create new content such 
as text, images, audio, and video based on vast amounts 
of trained data models (Jeong, 2023d), is being applied in 
various fields, including daily conversations, finance, 
healthcare, education, and entertainment (Ahn & Park, 
2023). As generative AI services become more accessible 
to the general public, the role of generative AI-based chat-
bots is becoming increasingly important (Adam et al., 
2021; Przegalinska et al., 2019; Park, 2024). A chatbot is 
an intelligent agent that allows users to have conversa-
tions typically through text or voice (Sánchez-Díaz et al., 
2018; Jeong & Jeong, 2020). Recently, generative AI 
chatbots have advanced to the level of analyzing human 
emotions and intentions to provide responses (Jeong, 
2023a). With the advent of large language models 
(LLMs), these chatbots can now be utilized for automatic 
 
Cheonsu Jeong 
 
2  
 
dialogue generation and translation (Jeong, 2023b). How-
ever, they may generate responses that conflict with the 
latest information and have a low understanding of new 
problems or domains as they rely on previously trained 
data (Jeong, 2023c). While 2023 was marked by the re-
lease of foundational large language models (LLMs) like 
ChatGPT and Llama-2, experts predict that 2024 will be 
the year of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) and 
AI Agents (Skelter Labs, 2024). 
However, there are several considerations for companies 
looking to adopt generative AI services. Companies must 
address concerns such as whether the AI can provide ac-
curate responses based on internal data, the potential risk 
of internal data leakage, and how to integrate generative 
AI with corporate systems. Solutions include using do-
main-specific fine-tuned LLMs and enhancing reliability 
with RAG that utilizes internal information (Jung, 2024). 
When domain-specific information is fine-tuned on GPT-
4 LLM, accuracy improves from 75% to 81%, and adding 
RAG can further increase accuracy to 86% (Angels et al., 
2024). RAG models are known for effectively combinin