Enhancing Retrieval and Managing Retrieval:
A Four-Module Synergy for Improved Quality and
Efficiency in RAG Systems
Yunxiao Shia, Xing Zia, Zijing Shia, Haimin Zhanga, Qiang Wua and Min Xua,*
aUniversity of Technology Sydney, Broadway, Sydney, 2007, NSW, Australia.
Abstract. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) techniques lever-
age the in-context learning capabilities of large language models
(LLMs) to produce more accurate and relevant responses. Originat-
ing from the simple ’retrieve-then-read’ approach, the RAG frame-
work has evolved into a highly flexible and modular paradigm. A
critical component, the Query Rewriter module, enhances knowl-
edge retrieval by generating a search-friendly query. This method
aligns input questions more closely with the knowledge base. Our
research identifies opportunities to enhance the Query Rewriter mod-
ule to Query Rewriter+ by generating multiple queries to over-
come the Information Plateaus associated with a single query and
by rewriting questions to eliminate Ambiguity, thereby clarifying
the underlying intent. We also find that current RAG systems ex-
hibit issues with Irrelevant Knowledge; to overcome this, we pro-
pose the Knowledge Filter. These two modules are both based on
the instructional-tuned Gemma-2B model, which together enhance
response quality. The final identified issue is Redundant Retrieval;
we introduce the Memory Knowledge Reservoir and the Retriever
Trigger to solve this. The former supports the dynamic expansion
of the RAG system’s knowledge base in a parameter-free manner,
while the latter optimizes the cost for accessing external knowl-
edge, thereby improving resource utilization and response efficiency.
These four RAG modules synergistically improve the response qual-
ity and efficiency of the RAG system. The effectiveness of these
modules has been validated through experiments and ablation studies
across six common QA datasets. The source code can be accessed at
https://github.com/Ancientshi/ERM4.
1
Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a significant leap in ar-
tificial intelligence, with breakthroughs in generalization and adapt-
ability across diverse tasks [4, 6]. However, challenges such as hal-
lucinations [32], temporal misalignments [27], context processing
issues [1], and fine-tuning inefficiencies [8] have raised significant
concerns about their reliability. In response, recent research has fo-
cused on enhancing LLMs’ capabilities by integrating them with ex-
ternal knowledge sources through Retrieval-Augmented Generation
(RAG) [2, 20, 13, 15]. This approach significantly improves LLMs’
ability to answer questions more accurately and contextually.
The basic RAG system comprises a knowledge retrieval mod-
ule and a read module, forming the retrieve-then-read pipeline
∗Corresponding author with email: Min.Xu@uts.edu.au.
[20, 15, 13]. However, this vanilla pipeline has low retrieval qual-
ity and produces unreliable answers. To transcend this, more ad-
vanced RAG modules have been developed and integrated into the
basic pipeline. For example, the Query Rewriter module acts as a
bridge between the input question and the retrieval module. Instead
of directly using the original question as the query text, it gener-
ates a new query that better facilitates the retrieval of relevant infor-
mation. This enhancement forms the Rewrite-Retrieve-Read pipeline
[23, 22]. Furthermore, models like RETA-LLM [22] and RARR [10]
integrate a post-reading and fact-checking component to further so-
lidify the reliability of responses. Additional auxiliary modules such
as the query router [21] and the resource ranker 1 [14] have also been
proposed to be integrated into the RAG’s framework to improve the
practicality in complex application scenario. This integration of var-
ious modules into the RAG pipeline leading to the emergence of a
modular RAG paradigm [11], transforming the RAG framework into
a highly flexible system.
Despite significant advancement