Context Embeddings for Efficient Answer Generation in RAG
David Rau∗
University of Amsterdam
Amsterdam, Netherlands
d.m.rau@uva.nl
Shuai Wang∗†
The University of Queensland
Brisbane, Australia
shuai.wang2@uq.edu.au
Hervé Déjean
Naver Labs Europe
Grenoble, France
herve.dejean@naverlabs.com
Stéphane Clinchant
Naver Labs Europe
Grenoble, France
stephane.clinchant@naverlabs.com
ABSTRACT
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) allows overcoming the lim-
ited knowledge of LLMs by extending the input with external in-
formation. As a consequence, the contextual inputs to the model
become much longer which slows down decoding time directly
translating to the time a user has to wait for an answer. We address
this challenge by presenting COCOM, an effective context compres-
sion method, reducing long contexts to only a handful of Context
Embeddings speeding up the generation time by a large margin. Our
method allows for different compression rates trading off decoding
time for answer quality. Compared to earlier methods, COCOM al-
lows for handling multiple contexts more effectively, significantly
reducing decoding time for long inputs. Our method demonstrates
an inference speed-up of up to 5.69× while achieving higher perfor-
mance compared to existing efficient context compression methods.
Model checkpoints: https://huggingface.co/naver/cocom-v1-128-
mistral-7b.
KEYWORDS
Context Compression, LLM, RAG
ACM Reference Format:
David Rau, Shuai Wang, Hervé Déjean, and Stéphane Clinchant. 2024. Con-
text Embeddings for Efficient Answer Generation in RAG. In . ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
1
INTRODUCTION
Large Language Models (LLMs) are pre-trained on massive amounts
of textual data; for instance, Llama 2 [32] has been trained on 3
trillion tokens during pre-training. Through billions of learnable
parameters, LLMs not only excel at modeling language but at the
same time, build up a knowledge base that could be later used for
question answering. On the other hand, the model is limited to
∗Equal Contribution.
†Work performed during an internship at Naver Labs Europe.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
200
400
600
800
1000
Decoding time (ms)
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Performance (EM)
xRAG-7B
RAG (no compr.)
ICAE
COCOM (ours)
LLM no context
Pareto frontier
Decoder fine-tuned
Decoder frozen
Comp. rate 
4
16
128
Figure 1: COCOM: Compressing multiple contexts for RAG
into a small set (𝜉= 4, 16, 128) of Context Embeddings leads to
a massive speed up in answer generation while maintaining
higher performance compared to other methods. Results are
shown for the ASQA dataset.
the knowledge contained in the pre-training data. In knowledge-
intensive scenarios, relying solely on the parametric memory of
the model is often insufficient. To alleviate this, context can be
provided explicitly from an external source through a preceding
retrieval step (Retrieval-Augmented Generation–RAG). Although
LLMs show notable improvements when given additional relevant
context in knowledge-intensive tasks, this approach has limitations.
A key drawback is that adding more context to the input consid-
erably slows down generation during inference. This occurs because
the self-attention mechanism in transformers grows exponentially
in space and memory requirements with increasing input length.
At the same time, previous research has shown providing multiple
documents as context can improve RAG performance [10, 12]. This
is