Introducing a new hyper-parameter for RAG: Context Window
Utilization
KUSH JUVEKAR, Independent, India
ANUPAM PURWAR, Independent, India
This paper introduces a new hyper-parameter for Retrieval-Augmented Gen-
eration (RAG) systems called Context Window Utilization. RAG systems
enhance generative models by incorporating relevant information retrieved
from external knowledge bases, improving the factual accuracy and contex-
tual relevance of generated responses. The size of the text chunks retrieved
and processed is a critical factor influencing RAG performance. This study
aims to identify the optimal chunk size that maximizes answer generation
quality. Through systematic experimentation, we analyze the effects of vary-
ing chunk sizes on the efficiency and effectiveness of RAG frameworks. Our
findings reveal that an optimal chunk size balances the trade-off between
providing sufficient context and minimizing irrelevant information. These
insights are crucial for enhancing the design and implementation of RAG
systems, underscoring the importance of selecting an appropriate chunk
size to achieve superior performance.
CCS Concepts: • Information systems →Information extraction; •
Computing methodologies →Natural language generation.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Retrieval Augmented Generation, Large
Language Models, Context Window, Chunk size, Optimization
ACM Reference Format:
Kush Juvekar and Anupam Purwar. 2024. Introducing a new hyper-parameter
for RAG: Context Window Utilization. 1, 1 (August 2024), 13 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
1
Introduction
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)[Lewis et al. 2021] is the
process of optimizing the output of a large language model, so it
references an authoritative knowledge base outside of its training
data sources before generating a response. Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs) are trained on vast volumes of data and use billions of
parameters to generate original output for tasks like answering
questions, translating languages, and completing sentences. RAG
extends the already powerful capabilities of LLMs to specific do-
mains or an organization’s internal knowledge base, all without the
need to retrain the model. Implementing RAG is an efficient way to
enhance the output of LLM, ensuring its relevance, accuracy, and
usefulness in diverse applications like as chat-bots for enterprise
data [Juvekar and Purwar 2024], conversational learning interfaces
[Harbola and Purwar 2024], and seamless integration with voice
interfaces [Purwar and Sundar 2023].
Authors’ Contact Information: Kush Juvekar, kushjuveka0610@gmail.com, Independent,
Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India; Anupam Purwar, anupam.aiml@gmail.com, Independent,
Delhi, India.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM XXXX-XXXX/2024/8-ART
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
Currently, most RAG systems follow the Dual-Encoder Architec-
ture paradigm[Dong et al. 2022], in which the reference documents
are divided into small snippets, encoded by specific encoders, and
then stored in the vector database as embeddings. The DEA para-
digm shows great potential for empowering LLMs with any existing
knowledge database.
Present day advancements in RAG have answered various ques-
tions like "what should be retrieved" , "when retrieval should not
occur", "how to utilize the retrieved information" and more.[Asai
et