REAPER: Reasoning based Retrieval Planning for Complex RAG
Systems
Ashutosh Joshi*, Sheikh Muhammad Sarwar*, Samarth Varshney*,
Sreyashi Nag, Shrivats Agrawal, and Juhi Naik
(jashutos,smsarwar,varshsam,sreyanag,shrivagr,juhinaik)@amazon.com
ABSTRACT
Complex dialog systems often use retrieved evidence to facilitate
factual responses. Such RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation)
systems retrieve from massive heterogeneous data stores that are
usually architected as multiple indexes or APIs instead of a single
monolithic source. For a given query, relevant evidence needs to be
retrieved from one or a small subset of possible retrieval sources.
Complex queries can even require multi-step retrieval. For exam-
ple, a conversational agent on a retail site answering customer
questions about past orders will need to retrieve the appropriate
customer order first and then the evidence relevant to the cus-
tomer’s question in the context of the ordered product. Most RAG
Agents handle such Chain-of-Thought (CoT) tasks by interleaving
reasoning and retrieval steps. However, each reasoning step directly
adds to the latency of the system. For large models this latency
cost is significant – in the order of multiple seconds. Multi-agent
systems may classify the query to a single Agent associated with
a retrieval source, though this means that a (small) classification
model dictates the performance of a large language model. In this
work we present REAPER (REAsoning-based PlannER) - an LLM
based planner to generate retrieval plans in conversational systems.
We show significant gains in latency over Agent-based systems
and are able to scale easily to new and unseen use cases as com-
pared to classification-based planning. Though our method can be
applied to any RAG system, we show our results in the context of a
conversational shopping assistant.
ACM Reference Format:
Ashutosh Joshi*, Sheikh Muhammad Sarwar*, Samarth Varshney*, and Sreyashi
Nag, Shrivats Agrawal, and Juhi Naik. 2024. REAPER: Reasoning based Re-
trieval Planning for Complex RAG Systems. In Proceedings of CIKM 2024:
Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM ‘24). ACM,
New York, NY, USA, 8 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1
INTRODUCTION
Conversational shopping assistants help customers navigate their
shopping journey by providing relevant information at the right
time. They are equipped to answer customer questions on shop-
ping needs, products, comparisons, make recommendations based
*these authors contributed equally.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CIKM ‘24, October 21 – 25, 2024, Boise, ID
© 2024 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM...$15.00
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
on this context, and facilitate product discovery. A conversational
shopping assistants is thus trained on both product catalog and
open data sources. It uses a RAG (Retrieval Augmented Genera-
tion) framework [14] where the response to a customer’s query is
generated by an LLM, using evidence from one or more retrieval
sources. Most complex dialog systems cover a large variety of top-
ics. They need to retrieve evidence from data stores and indexes
that are potentially petabytes in size and store heterogeneous docu-
ments in multiple modalities. These massive data stores are usually
structured as multiple homogeneous indexes rather than a single
monolith. For efficient retrieval, the dialog system needs to decide
which indexe