A RAG-Based Question-Answering Solution for
Cyber-Attack Investigation and Attribution
Sampath Rajapaksha⋆[0000−0001−7772−3774], Ruby Rani⋆[0000−0003−1257−8478],
and Erisa Karafili[0000−0002−8250−4389]
University of Southampton
University Road, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK
{srwg1m24, r.rani, e.karafili}@soton.ac.uk
Abstract. In the constantly evolving field of cybersecurity, it is imper-
ative for analysts to stay abreast of the latest attack trends and perti-
nent information that aids in the investigation and attribution of cyber-
attacks. In this work, we introduce the first question-answering (QA)
model and its application that provides information to the cybersecu-
rity experts about cyber-attacks investigations and attribution. Our QA
model is based on Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques
together with a Large Language Model (LLM) and provides answers to
the users’ queries based on either our knowledge base (KB) that contains
curated information about cyber-attacks investigations and attribution
or on outside resources provided by the users. We have tested and evalu-
ated our QA model with various types of questions, including KB-based,
metadata-based, specific documents from the KB, and external sources-
based questions. We compared the answers for KB-based questions with
those from OpenAI’s GPT-3.5 and the latest GPT-4o LLMs. Our pro-
posed QA model outperforms OpenAI’s GPT models by providing the
source of the answers and overcoming the hallucination limitations of the
GPT models, which is critical for cyber-attack investigation and attribu-
tion. Additionally, our analysis showed that when the RAG QA model
is given few-shot examples rather than zero-shot instructions, it gener-
ates better answers compared to cases where no examples are supplied
in addition to the query.
Keywords: cyber-attack attribution · LLMs · RAG · QA
1
Introduction
Investigating and attributing cyber-attacks are crucial processes, as they allow
the implementation of efficient countermeasures. Cyber-attack attribution, which
involves identifying the attacker responsible for a cyber-attack, is an essential
process that enables experts to implement attacker-oriented countermeasures
and pursue legal actions. There are three levels of attribution. The first level
⋆These authors contributed equally to this work. Thus, the alphabetical order is
applied.
arXiv:2408.06272v1  [cs.CR]  12 Aug 2024
2
Rajapaksha, Rani, and Karafili
involves understanding the tools, tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs)
used by the attacker. The second level identifies the geographical location of
the attack. The third and most critical level determines the individual or or-
ganization behind the attack [10]. Details about cyber-attacks are published in
various formats, such as text and PDF. Cybersecurity professionals often need
to sift through vast amounts of these textual data to stay ahead of evolving
threats [11,7]. The lack of a standard format for these reports makes extract-
ing meaningful information from cyber-threat intelligence (CTI) challenging [10].
Consequently, cyber-attack attribution is complex and resource-intensive [12,13],
often requiring manual effort from cybersecurity experts [17]. Despite its com-
plexity, this process is essential for responding to incidents, formulating cyberse-
curity policies, and mitigating future threats. LLMs have revolutionised Natural
Language Processing (NLP), significantly enhancing automated text generation
and enabling human-like interactions. Consequently, LLMs such as GPT-3.5,
GPT-4 are increasingly utilised in various domains, including cyber threat intel-
ligence [21]. Recent studies have demonstrated the feasibility of using LLMs to
extract cybersecurity knowledge from large unstructured datasets [21,25,6,15].
However, a major drawback of LLMs is their tendency to hallucinate, producing
responses that are misleading or entirely fabricated. Another significant issue
is the outdated knowledge of LLMs [8].