WeKnow-RAG: An Adaptive Approach for Retrieval-Augmented
Generation Integrating Web Search and Knowledge Graphs
Weijian Xie
Ping An Bank Co., Ltd.
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
tsewkviko@gmail.com
Xuefeng Liang
Tsinghua University
Haidian, Beijing, China
liang1xuefeng@gmail.com
Yuhui Liu
Central South University
Changsha, Hunan, China
liuyuhui@csu.edu.cn
Kaihua Ni
Shanghai Yiwo Information
Technology Co., Ltd.
Changning, Shanghai, China
nikaihua008@gmail.com
Hong Cheng
Kwangwoon University, Department
of Computer Engineering
Nowon Gu, Seoul, South Korea
kwchenghong@gmail.com
Zetian Hu
Tsinghua University
Haidian, Beijing, China
huzt22@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
Abstract
Large Language Models (LLMs) have greatly contributed to the
development of adaptive intelligent agents and are positioned as
an important way to achieve Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).
However, LLMs are prone to produce factually incorrect informa-
tion and often produce "phantom" content that undermines their
reliability, which poses a serious challenge for their deployment
in real-world scenarios. Enhancing LLMs by combining external
databases and information retrieval mechanisms is an effective path.
To address the above challenges, we propose a new approach called
WeKnow-RAG, which integrates Web search and Knowledge
Graphs into a "Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)" system.
First, the accuracy and reliability of LLM responses are improved
by combining the structured representation of Knowledge Graphs
with the flexibility of dense vector retrieval. WeKnow-RAG then
utilizes domain-specific knowledge graphs to satisfy a variety of
queries and domains, thereby improving performance on factual
information and complex reasoning tasks by employing multi-stage
web page retrieval techniques using both sparse and dense retrieval
methods. Our approach effectively balances the efficiency and accu-
racy of information retrieval, thus improving the overall retrieval
process. Finally, we also integrate a self-assessment mechanism for
the LLM to evaluate the trustworthiness of the answers it generates.
Our approach proves its outstanding effectiveness in a wide range
of offline experiments and online submissions.
CCS Concepts
• Computing methodologies →Artificial intelligence; Machine
learning.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
KDD Cup CRAG Workshop ’24, August 25–29, 2024, Barcelona, Spain
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/18/06
Keywords
Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Large Language Model, Knowl-
edge Graphs, Domain adaptation fine-tuning
ACM Reference Format:
Weijian Xie, Xuefeng Liang, Yuhui Liu, Kaihua Ni, Hong Cheng, and Zetian
Hu. 2024. WeKnow-RAG: An Adaptive Approach for Retrieval-Augmented
Generation Integrating Web Search and Knowledge Graphs. In Proceedings
of 2024 KDD Cup Workshop for Retrieval Augmented Generation (KDD Cup
CRAG Workshop ’24). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 8 pages.
1
Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) [26] have significantly propelled the
development of adaptable intelligent agents, positioning themselves
as a promising pathway towards achieving artificial general intelli-
gence (AGI). Despite these advancements, the inherent nature of
LLMs introduces critical challenges that obstruct their deployment
in real-world production scenarios [12]. One of main key issues
is the tendency of LLMs to produce factually incorrect inform