CommunityKG-RAG: Leveraging Community Structures in Knowledge
Graphs for Advanced Retrieval-Augmented Generation in Fact-Checking
Rong-Ching Chang
Department of Computer Science
University of California, Davis
Davis, CA
rocchang@ucdavis.edu
Jiawei Zhang
Department of Computer Science
University of California, Davis
Davis, CA
jiawei@ifmlab.org
Abstract
Despite advancements in Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs) and Retrieval-Augmented Genera-
tion (RAG) systems, their effectiveness is often
hindered by a lack of integration with entity re-
lationships and community structures, limiting
their ability to provide contextually rich and ac-
curate information retrieval for fact-checking.
We introduce CommunityKG-RAG (Commu-
nity Knowledge Graph-Retrieval Augmented
Generation), a novel zero-shot framework that
integrates community structures within Knowl-
edge Graphs (KGs) with RAG systems to en-
hance the fact-checking process. Capable of
adapting to new domains and queries with-
out additional training, CommunityKG-RAG
utilizes the multi-hop nature of community
structures within KGs to significantly improve
the accuracy and relevance of information re-
trieval. Our experimental results demonstrate
that CommunityKG-RAG outperforms tradi-
tional methods, representing a significant ad-
vancement in fact-checking by offering a ro-
bust, scalable, and efficient solution.
1
Introduction
The occurrence of misinformation and the impera-
tive of fact-checking are pivotal elements within the
digital information ecosystem, profoundly affect-
ing public discourse and shaping societal decisions
worldwide. Concurrently, the advent of Large Lan-
guage Models (LLMs) has unveiled remarkable
capabilities in comprehending and producing hu-
man languages, presenting a promising avenue for
bolstering fact-checking endeavors. Prior research
(Buchholz, 2023; Li et al., 2023b; Caramancion,
2023; Hoes et al., 2023; Huang and Sun, 2023)
has delved into directly prompting LLM models to
identify false information. However, while LLMs
can be instrumental in combating misinformation,
their practical application still exposes two critical
limitations. Firstly, these models are constrained by
the cut-off date of their training data. Secondly, this
issue is compounded by the tendency of LLMs to
generate incorrect information or “hallucinations”
(Huang et al., 2023) which could jeopardize the ac-
curacy of claim verification in fact-checking tasks.
In response to these challenges, Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a
promising approach. By integrating the genera-
tive capabilities of LLMs with external data re-
trieval, RAG significantly enhances the accuracy
and relevance of the responses. For instance, Liao
et al. (2023) leverages RAG by employing both
the dot product and the BERT-based sequence tag-
ging model to identify key evidences. Soleimani
et al. (2019) uses the BERT model to retrieve and
validate claims.
While RAG significantly advances the capabil-
ities of LLMs, it, too, faces unique challenges.
Firstly, language models suffer from utilizing con-
texts in long texts. When crucial information is
located in the middle, it is less likely to be effec-
tively utilized by language models (Liu et al., 2023).
Secondly, when contexts are laden with noise or
contradictory information, RAG’s performance can
be adversely underscored (Barnett et al., 2024).
Thirdly, the retrieval process plays a crucial role.
Often, even if the answer to a query is present in the
document corpus, it may not rank highly enough to
be returned to the user (Barnett et al., 2024). Fur-
ther expanding on the challenges in RAG systems,
knowledge retrieved by these systems does not al-
ways contribute positively (Wang et al., 2023) and
can sometimes detrimentally impact the original
responses generated by the LLMs.
Acknowledging the challenges inherent in RAG
systems, Knowledge Graphs (KGs) offer a struc-
tured, semantically rich framework that has a long-
standing history of