Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher
Education
SAGNIK DAKSHIT, The University of Texas at Tyler, USA
The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly impacted the field of Natural Language Processing and has
transformed conversational tasks across various domains because of their widespread integration in applications and public access.
The discussion surrounding the application of LLMs in education has raised ethical concerns, particularly concerning plagiarism and
policy compliance. Despite the prowess of LLMs in conversational tasks, the limitations of reliability and hallucinations exacerbate the
need to guardrail conversations, motivating our investigation of RAG in computer science higher education. We developed Retrieval
Augmented Generation (RAG) applications for the two tasks of virtual teaching assistants and teaching aids. In our study, we collected
the ratings and opinions of faculty members in undergraduate and graduate computer science university courses at various levels,
using our personalized RAG systems for each course. This study is the first to gather faculty feedback on the application of LLM-based
RAG in education. The investigation revealed that while faculty members acknowledge the potential of RAG systems as virtual
teaching assistants and teaching aids, certain barriers and features are suggested for their full-scale deployment. These findings
contribute to the ongoing discussion on the integration of advanced language models in educational settings, highlighting the need
for careful consideration of ethical implications and the development of appropriate safeguards to ensure responsible and effective
implementation.
CCS Concepts: • Applied computing →Computer-assisted instruction; Interactive learning environments; • Computing
methodologies →Natural language generation; Neural networks.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Large Language Models, Retrieval Augmented Generation, Neural Networks, Education, Learning
ACM Reference Format:
Sagnik Dakshit. 2024. Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher Education. In Proceedings of ACM
SIGITE 2024 (Accepted ACM SIGITE). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1
Introduction
Deep learning (DL), a subset of Artificial Intelligence (AI), has greatly impacted the industry by allowing the extraction
of meaningful patterns from real-world data, resulting in widespread applications in numerous domains and tasks,
including education. The integration of deep learning into educational settings offers numerous opportunities to improve
teaching and learning processes, including personalizing instruction, optimizing learning environments, and facilitating
the development of innovative educational technologies. With the ability to automatically learn complex patterns and
representations from large amounts of data, deep learning holds tremendous potential for enhancing teaching, learning,
and educational outcomes. One recent disruptive innovation with the potential to significantly impact education is that
of Large Language Models (LLMs), which have demonstrated significant potential in conversational natural language
processing (NLP) tasks.
Author’s Contact Information: Sagnik Dakshit, sdakshit@uttyler.edu, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, USA.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on
servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/a