GEM-RAG: Graphical Eigen Memories For
Retrieval Augmented Generation
Brendan Hogan Rappazzo, Yingheng Wang, Aaron Ferber, Carla Gomes
Department of Computer Science
Cornell University
Ithaca, New York 14850
Email: {bhr54, yw2349, amf272, cpg5}@cornell.edu
Abstract—The ability to form, retrieve, and reason about mem-
ories in response to stimuli serves as the cornerstone for general
intelligence - shaping entities capable of learning, adaptation, and
intuitive insight. Large Language Models (LLMs) have proven
their ability, given the proper memories or context, to reason
and respond meaningfully to stimuli. However, they are still
unable to optimally encode, store, and retrieve memories - the
ability to do this would unlock their full ability to operate as AI
agents, and to specialize to niche domains. To remedy this, one
promising area of research is Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG), which aims to augment LLMs by providing them with
rich in-context examples and information. In question-answering
(QA) applications, RAG methods embed the text of interest in
chunks, and retrieve the most relevant chunks for a prompt
using text embeddings. Motivated by human memory encoding
and retrieval, we aim to improve over standard RAG methods
by generating and encoding higher-level information and tagging
the chunks by their utility to answer questions. We introduce
Graphical Eigen Memories For Retrieval Augmented Generation
(GEM-RAG). GEM-RAG works by tagging each chunk of text
in a given text corpus with LLM generated “utility” questions,
connecting chunks in a graph based on the similarity of both their
text and utility questions, and then using the eigendecomposition
of the memory graph to build higher level summary nodes that
capture the main themes of the text. As a result, GEM-RAG not
only provides a more principled method for RAG tasks, but also
synthesizes graphical eigen memory (GEM) which can be useful
for both exploring text and understanding which components are
relevant to a given question. We evaluate GEM-RAG, using both
UnifiedQA and GPT-3.5 Turbo as the LLMs, with SBERT, and
OpenAI’s text encoders on two standard QA tasks, showing that
GEM-RAG outperforms other state-of-the-art RAG methods on
these tasks. We also discuss the implications of having a robust
RAG system and future directions.
I. INTRODUCTION
The ability to create intelligent machines has long occu-
pied the fascination of humankind, from the automata of the
medieval error, formalization of logic in the 17th century and
evolving with the emergence of computing theory and artificial
intelligence concepts in the 19th century. Now in the modern
era, the possibility of generating Artificial General Intelligence
(AGI) [1] seems as close as ever, in particular just within the
past three years with the advent of massive scale machine
learning systems, especially Large Language Models (LLMs),
and Large Multimodal Models (LMMs).
LLMs have emerged as remarkably powerful general knowl-
edge stores, with the ability to perform impressively on a large
variety of tasks [2], [3], [4]. Further, given their large context
lengths, its has been shown that they have a powerful ability
to perform in-context learning, whether it be for chat-like
applications where it can reference parts of the conversation
dynamically, adapting to classification tasks [5], or reasoning
tasks through chain-of-thought prompting [6]. LLMs appear
to have solved one part of the general intelligence equation,
given the proper context, much like a human mind given the
proper working memory stream, they can reason and respond
to questions reasonably. But without a way to encode, store
and retrieve information that extends outside of their context,
LLMs are missing an extremely important part of general
intelligence, they are unable to form long-term, and ongoing
memories as AI agents, and are unable to adapt to new niche
domains.
If LLMs were able to perfectly encode, store and retrieve
memories it would