BEYOND SCORES: A MODULAR RAG-BASED SYSTEM FOR
AUTOMATIC SHORT ANSWER SCORING WITH FEEDBACK
A PREPRINT
Menna Fateen
Graduate School of Information Science and Electrical Engineering
Kyushu University
Fukuoka, 8190395, Japan
menna.fateen@m.ait.kyushu-u.ac.jp
Bo Wang
Graduate School of Information Science and Electrical Engineering
Kyushu University
Fukuoka, 8190395, Japan
wangbo.rw@gmail.com
Tsunenori Mine
Faculty of Information Science and Electrical Engineering
Kyushu University
Fukuoka, 8190395, Japan
mine@ait.kyushu-u.ac.jp
October 11, 2024
ABSTRACT
Automatic short answer scoring (ASAS) helps reduce the grading burden on educators but often
lacks detailed, explainable feedback. Existing methods in ASAS with feedback (ASAS-F) rely
on fine-tuning language models with limited datasets, which is resource-intensive and struggles to
generalize across contexts. Recent approaches using large language models (LLMs) have focused on
scoring without extensive fine-tuning. However, they often rely heavily on prompt engineering and
either fail to generate elaborated feedback or do not adequately evaluate it. In this paper, we propose
a modular retrieval augmented generation based ASAS-F system that scores answers and generates
feedback in strict zero-shot and few-shot learning scenarios. We design our system to be adaptable to
various educational tasks without extensive prompt engineering using an automatic prompt generation
framework. Results show an improvement in scoring accuracy by 9% on unseen questions compared
to fine-tuning, offering a scalable and cost-effective solution.
Keywords automatic short answer scoring · large language models · retrieval-augmented generation
1
Introduction
Feedback plays a critical role in student learning. Extensive research demonstrates that detailed and timely feedback
significantly improves student performance by guiding learning and correcting misunderstandings Shute [2008], Hattie
and Timperley [2007]. However, providing such elaborated feedback, especially for short answer questions, is a
time-consuming and labor-intensive task for educators, particularly when managing large numbers of students. To
address this, automatic short answer scoring (ASAS) systems have been developed to quickly assess student responses
Riordan et al. [2017], Ramachandran et al. [2015]. Despite their utility, ASAS systems primarily focus on scoring
arXiv:2409.20042v2  [cs.CL]  10 Oct 2024
arXiv Template
A PREPRINT
correctness, offering holistic scores without the detailed feedback students need to understand their mistakes Burrows
et al. [2015].
Current ASAS systems are typically trained on classification or regression tasks, where the objective is to assign a score
to a student’s answer. While effective in evaluating answers, these systems lack the explainability needed for two key
purposes: (1) helping students understand the reasoning behind their errors and the feedback given and (2) fostering
trust in the scoring system Winstone et al. [2017], Liu et al. [2018], Khosravi et al. [2022]. Without this granularity,
students miss opportunities to improve, and educators may be reluctant to adopt automated grading systems.
In response to these limitations, recent research has focused on developing ASAS systems with feedback (ASAS-F) that
not only score student answers but also generate detailed feedback Li et al. [2023], Schneider et al. [2023], Filighera
et al. [2022a]. These systems aim to provide students with actionable feedback that explains the reasoning behind
their scores, helping them identify and correct their mistakes. Existing ASAS-F systems rely on resource-intensive
fine-tuning with limited datasets, specific tasks Dzikovska et al. [2014], Keuning et al. [2018] or complex prompt
engineering, all of which may not generalize well across contexts. Moreover, evaluating the quality of the textual
feedback is usually only done using traditional statistical metrics, which do not capture the main aspects of quality,
s