P-RAG: Progressive Retrieval Augmented Generation For
Planning on Embodied Everyday Task
Weiye Xu
ustcxwy0271@mail.ustc.edu.cn
University of Science and
Technology of China, China
Hefei, China
Min Wang∗
wangmin@iai.ustc.edu.cn
Institute of Artificial
Intelligence, Hefei
Comprehensive National
Science Center
Hefei, China
Wengang Zhou∗
zhwg@ustc.edu.cn
University of Science and
Technology of China
Hefei, China
Houqiang Li
lihq@ustc.edu.cn
University of Science and
Technology of China
Hefei, China
Abstract
Embodied Everyday Task is a popular task in the embodied AI com-
munity, requiring agents to make a sequence of actions based on
natural language instructions and visual observations. Traditional
learning-based approaches face two challenges. Firstly, natural lan-
guage instructions often lack explicit task planning. Secondly, ex-
tensive training is required to equip models with knowledge of the
task environment. Previous works based on Large Language Model
(LLM) either suffer from poor performance due to the lack of task-
specific knowledge or rely on ground truth as few-shot samples. To
address the above limitations, we propose a novel approach called
Progressive Retrieval Augmented Generation (P-RAG), which not
only effectively leverages the powerful language processing capa-
bilities of LLMs but also progressively accumulates task-specific
knowledge without ground-truth. Compared to the conventional
RAG methods, which retrieve relevant information from the data-
base in a one-shot manner to assist generation, P-RAG introduces
an iterative approach to progressively update the database. In each
iteration, P-RAG retrieves the latest database and obtains historical
information from the previous interaction as experiential references
for the current interaction. Moreover, we also introduce a more
granular retrieval scheme that not only retrieves similar tasks but
also incorporates retrieval of similar situations to provide more
valuable reference experiences. Extensive experiments reveal that
P-RAG achieves competitive results without utilizing ground truth
and can even further improve performance through self-iterations.
CCS Concepts
• Computing methodologies →Robotic planning.
Keywords
Embodied AI, Large Language Model, Progressive Method, Retrieval
Augmented Generation
∗Corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
MM ’24, October 28-November 1, 2024, Melbourne, VIC, Australia
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0686-8/24/10
https://doi.org/10.1145/3664647.3680661
ACM Reference Format:
Weiye Xu, Min Wang, Wengang Zhou, and Houqiang Li. 2024. P-RAG:
Progressive Retrieval Augmented Generation For Planning on Embodied
Everyday Task. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International Conference on
Multimedia (MM ’24), October 28-November 1, 2024, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3664647.3680661
1
Introduction
Recent years have witnessed the rapid development of Embodied
AI (EAI) which aims to endow AI agents with the ability to inter-
act with the physical world. Two famous robots in this field from
Figure AI and Voxposer [11] are both concentrated on Embodied
Everyday Task. Due to the risks and instability inherent in con-
ducting experiments in real environments, researchers often opt to
train and test algorithms in simulation platforms. Many simulators
abstract and