Probing-RAG: Self-Probing to Guide Language Models in Selective
Document Retrieval
Ingeol Baek, Hwan Chang, Byeongjeong Kim, Jimin Lee, Hwanhee Lee†
Department of Artificial Intelligence, Chung-Ang University, Seoul, Korea
{ingeolbaek, hwanchang, michael97k, ljm1690, hwanheelee}@cau.ac.kr
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) en-
hances language models by retrieving and
incorporating relevant external knowledge.
However, traditional retrieve-and-generate pro-
cesses may not be optimized for real-world sce-
narios, where queries might require multiple
retrieval steps or none at all. In this paper, we
propose a Probing-RAG, which utilizes the hid-
den state representations from the intermediate
layers of language models to adaptively deter-
mine the necessity of additional retrievals for a
given query. By employing a pre-trained prober,
Probing-RAG effectively captures the model’s
internal cognition, enabling reliable decision-
making about retrieving external documents.
Experimental results across five open-domain
QA datasets demonstrate that Probing-RAG
outperforms previous methods while reducing
the number of redundant retrieval steps.
1
Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) have demon-
strated remarkable performance across a variety
of tasks (Brown, 2020; Ouyang et al., 2022; Tou-
vron et al., 2023; Zhao et al., 2023). However, they
still face challenges such as hallucinations (Ji et al.,
2023; Zhang et al., 2023b; Huang et al., 2023) and
factual errors (Min et al., 2023; Manakul et al.,
2023; Wang et al., 2023a). Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) leverages external knowledge
related to the query through information retrieval
steps to mitigate these issues.
Typically, the RAG pipeline follows a retrieve-
and-generate process (Guu et al., 2020; Izacard and
Grave, 2020; Singh et al., 2021; Izacard et al., 2023;
Lazaridou et al., 2022; Shi et al., 2023), fetching
relevant documents based on the user’s input before
generating a response. While this approach works
well for simple single-hop QA (Ram et al., 2023),
certain problems cannot be resolved in a single step
†Corresponding author.
LLM
LLM
Prober
Answer:
Cyndi  Lauper
Hidden states
Complexity
Classifier
Iteration 1:
"Retrieval Call is Needed!"
Iteration 2:
”Model Can Answer,
no Further Retrieval 
Needed!"
Retreiver
Cyndi?
Cyndi Lauper!
Multi-step Retriever 
is Needed!
Retreiver
Doc – "True Colors"
was the title track
from Cyndi Lauper’s
second studio album
Doc – "True Colors"
new version of the
track with Kesha
Iteration K
Iteration 1
Iteration K Times
Answer:
Kesha
Question: Who sang the original version of "True Colors"? 
Adaptive-RAG
Probing-RAG
Doc – "True Colors"
was the title track
from Cyndi Lauper’s
second studio album
Iteration 1
     Iteration 2
Figure 1: The left example illustrates how redundant
retrieval steps, guided by an external query complex-
ity classifier that does not reflect the LLM’s internal
knowledge, can lead to wrong answers. In contrast, the
right example shows that the model uses the prober to
recognize that no further retrieval is needed, allowing it
to generate the correct answer.
and require multiple retrieval steps (Zhang et al.,
2023a; Shao et al., 2023; Cheng et al., 2024). On
the other hand, some examples can be addressed
using the LLM’s internal parametric knowledge
without requiring any retrieval steps.
To optimize the RAG pipeline, recent research
has introduced methods to adaptively adjust the
number of retrievals. (Su et al., 2024; Mallen et al.,
2022; Wang et al., 2023c). A notable example is
Adaptive-RAG (Jeong et al., 2024), which clas-
sifies queries into three categories based on their
complexity: no retrieval, single-step retrieval, or
multi-step retrievals. However, as shown in Fig-
ure 1, external classifiers in Adaptive-RAG often
fail to fully leverage the internal decision-making
capabilities of the language model. This leads
to unnecessary additional retrieval steps, result-
ing in knowledge conflicts betwee