Beyond-RAG: Question Identification and Answer Generation in
Real-Time Conversations
Garima Agrawal
Arizona State University
Tempe, Arizona, USA
garima.agrawal@asu.edu
Sashank Gummuluri
Minerva CQ
Sunnyvale, California, USA
sashank@minervacq.com
Cosimo Spera
Minerva CQ
Sunnyvale, California, USA
cosimo@minervacq.com
Abstract
In customer contact centers, human agents of-
ten struggle with long average handling times
(AHT) due to the need to manually interpret
queries and retrieve relevant knowledge base
(KB) articles. While retrieval augmented gen-
eration (RAG) systems using large language
models (LLMs) have been widely adopted in
industry to assist with such tasks, RAG faces
challenges in real-time conversations, such as
inaccurate query formulation and redundant re-
trieval of frequently asked questions (FAQs).
To address these limitations, we propose a deci-
sion support system that can look beyond RAG
by first identifying customer questions in real
time. If the query matches an FAQ, the sys-
tem retrieves the answer directly from the FAQ
database; otherwise, it generates answers via
RAG. Our approach reduces reliance on manual
queries, providing responses to agents within
2 seconds. Deployed in AI-powered human-
agent assist solution at Minerva CQ, this system
improves efficiency, reduces AHT, and lowers
operational costs. We also introduce an auto-
mated LLM-agentic workflow to identify FAQs
from historical transcripts when no predefined
FAQs exist.
1
Introduction
In today’s fast-paced customer contact centers, the
human agents must address customer inquiries ef-
ficiently while maintaining high service quality.
One of the key metrics for measuring the effective-
ness of these interactions is average handling time
(AHT) (Brantevica, 2018). AHT directly impacts
both operational costs and customer satisfaction;
the longer it takes to resolve a query, the higher
the chances of customer dissatisfaction. Tradition-
ally, agents manually interpret queries and search
through vast knowledge bases (KB) for relevant
articles during the call, which leads to prolonged
resolution times. To streamline this process, large
language models (LLMs) have been increasingly
integrated into customer service workflows, with
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) emerging
as a popular solution (Veturi et al., 2024; Agrawal
et al., 2024a). RAG systems combine the power of
LLMs with retrieval mechanisms that pull relevant
documents from knowledge bases to assist agents
during conversations. Despite its wide adoption,
RAG faces several limitations in real-time environ-
ments (Salemi and Zamani, 2024; Agrawal et al.,
2024b).
Before addressing the challenges we faced and
how we overcame them, we will first provide a brief
overview of the Minerva CQ (MinervaCQ, 2021)
human-agent assist AI solution and the specific use
cases that highlighted these limitations.
Minerva CQ serves as an AI copilot, supporting
customer service and sales agents by offering real-
time assistance during live conversations. This is
an example of collaborative intelligence (CQ) or
collaborative AI, which combines human intelli-
gence and artificial intelligence to achieve better
outcomes than either could alone. In the workplace,
CQ allows employees to team up with AI during
conversations to resolve complex issues, improve
customer experiences, and focus on more meaning-
ful work. At Minerva CQ, as call transcripts are
displayed in real time, the AI drives the interaction
toward efficient resolutions using adaptive work-
flows, dialogue suggestions, behavioral cues, and
knowledge surfacing.
In this setting, we implemented state-of-the-art
RAG-based solutions to retrieve relevant knowl-
edge articles for human experts, commonly referred
to as agents in the customer service industry. How-
ever, agents frequently reported that the retrieved
documents were not sufficiently useful or relevant
to the context of the query. Upon investigation, we
found that agents were inputting only keyw