OPEN-RAG: Enhanced Retrieval-Augmented Reasoning with Open-Source
Large Language Models
Shayekh Bin Islam*,1,6,7, Md Asib Rahman*,1, K S M Tozammel Hossain2
Enamul Hoque3, Shafiq Joty4, Md Rizwan Parvez5
1Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, 2University of North Texas
3York University, Canada, 4Salesforce Research, 5Qatar Computing Research Institute (QCRI)
6Fatima Al-Fihri Predoctoral Fellowship, 7Cohere For AI Community
shayekh.bin.islam@gmail.com, mparvez@hbku.edu.qa
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has
been shown to enhance the factual accuracy of
Large Language Models (LLMs), but existing
methods often suffer from limited reasoning
capabilities in effectively using the retrieved
evidence, particularly when using open-source
LLMs. To mitigate this gap, we introduce a
novel framework, OPEN-RAG, designed to en-
hance reasoning capabilities in RAG with open-
source LLMs. Our framework transforms an
arbitrary dense LLM into a parameter-efficient
sparse mixture of experts (MoE) model capable
of handling complex reasoning tasks, includ-
ing both single- and multi-hop queries. OPEN-
RAG uniquely trains the model to navigate
challenging distractors that appear relevant but
are misleading. As a result, OPEN-RAG lever-
ages latent learning, dynamically selecting rele-
vant experts and integrating external knowledge
effectively for more accurate and contextually
relevant responses. In addition, we propose a
hybrid adaptive retrieval method to determine
retrieval necessity and balance the trade-off be-
tween performance gain and inference speed.
Experimental results show that the Llama2-7B-
based OPEN-RAG outperforms state-of-the-art
LLMs and RAG models such as ChatGPT, Self-
RAG, and Command R+ in various knowledge-
intensive tasks. We open-source our code and
models at https://openragmoe.github.io/
1
Introduction
The rapid advancement of Large Language Models
(LLMs) has significantly improved various NLP
tasks (Beeching et al., 2023). However, these mod-
els often suffer from factual inaccuracies (Min
et al., 2023a; Mallen et al., 2022).
Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a
promising approach to integrate LLMs with ex-
ternal knowledge, thereby improving generation
accuracy (Asai et al., 2023; Lewis et al., 2020).
* Equal contribution.
Despite this, existing RAG methods demonstrate
limited reasoning capabilities, particularly when
employing open-source LLMs and addressing high-
complexity queries such as multi-hop retrieval aug-
mented tasks (Jeong et al., 2024b; Zhang et al.,
2024b). Thus, building an effective RAG model us-
ing open-source LLMs remains an open challenge.
To address this gap, we present OPEN-RAG, a
novel framework aimed at improving reasoning
capabilities in RAG with open-source LLMs.
Reasoning over retrieved documents is particu-
larly difficult. In general, retrievers are imperfect
and can return noisy passages (Shi et al., 2023).
The generated outputs can also be inconsistent with
retrieved passages (Gao et al., 2023a) or can even
override the LLM’s accurate parametric knowledge
(Parvez, 2024). Approaches like re-ranking or filter-
ing retrieved documents (Xu et al., 2023; Nogueira
and Cho, 2020; Wang et al., 2018) and active re-
trieval methods (i.e., retrieve only when needed)
(Mallen et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023a; Trivedi
et al., 2023a) have shown promising success in
tackling these, but they require substantial human
annotations, can filter out useful information, of-
ten perform sequential and repetitive calls (hence
slow), and can still suffer from distracting content,
even in relevant passages (Wang et al., 2023).
To address and control these behaviors such as
retrieval frequency of the RAG model and guide
the generation to be contextually consistent, Self-
RAG and its variants (Asai et al., 2024; Yan et al.,
2024; Jeong et al., 2024a) adopt a self-reflection-
based method. During training, these models learn
to generate both task output and intermittent