Knowledge Management for Automobile Failure
Analysis Using Graph RAG
1st Yuta Ojima
Department of System Innovation
School of Engineering
The University of Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan
y ojima@m.sys.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp
2nd Hiroki Sakaji
Faculty of Information Science
and Technology
Hokkaido University
Hokkaido, Japan
sakaji@ist.hokudai.ac.jp
3rd Tadashi Nakamura
Chasis Engineering Dept. No.1
Isuzu Motors Limited
Tokyo, Japan
Tadashi A Nakamura@isuzu.com
4th Hiroaki Sakata
Chasis Engineering Dept. No.1
Isuzu Motors Limited
Tokyo, Japan
Hiroaki Sakata@isuzu.com
5th Kazuya Seki
Quality Assurance Dept.
Isuzu Motors Limited
Tokyo, Japan
Kazuya Seki@isuzu.com
6th Yuu Teshigawara
Quality Assurance Dept.
Isuzu Motors Limited
Tokyo, Japan
Yuu Teshigawara@isuzu.com
7th Masami Yamashita
Technology Strategy Dept.
Isuzu Motors Limited
Tokyo, Japan
Masami Yamashita@isuzu.com
8th Kazuhiro Aoyama
Department of System Innovation
School of Engineering
The University of Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan
aoyama@race.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp
Abstract—This paper presents a knowledge management sys-
tem for automobile failure analysis using retrieval-augmented
generation (RAG) with large language models (LLMs) and
knowledge graphs (KGs). In the automotive industry, there is
a growing demand for knowledge transfer of failure analysis
from experienced engineers to young engineers. However, failure
events are phenomena that occur in a chain reaction, making
them difficult for beginners to analyze them. While knowledge
graphs, which can describe semantic relationships and structure
information is effective in representing failure events, due to their
capability of representing the relationships between components,
there is much information in KGs, so it is challenging for young
engineers to extract and understand sub-graphs from the KG.
On the other hand, there is increasing interest in the use of
Graph RAG, a type of RAG that combines LLMs and KGs
for knowledge management. However, when using the current
Graph RAG framework with an existing knowledge graph for
automobile failures, several issues arise because it is difficult
to generate executable queries for a knowledge graph database
which is not constructed by LLMs. To address this, we focused
on optimizing the Graph RAG pipeline for existing knowledge
graphs. Using an original Q&A dataset, the ROUGE F1 score
of the sentences generated by the proposed method showed
an average improvement of 157.6% compared to the current
method. This highlights the effectiveness of the proposed method
for automobile failure analysis.
Index Terms—Graph RAG, Large Language Model, Knowl-
edge Graph, Knowledge Management, Automobile Failure
I. INTRODUCTION
In the Japanese automotive industry, especially truck indus-
try, the necessity of knowledge transfer of failure analysis has
been increasing in recent years, specifically from experienced
engineers to young engineers. There are two main reasons for
this. The first reason is that failure analysis in automobiles is
complex and challenging to address without sufficient experi-
ence. Vehicles are generally recognized as systems composed
of multiple parts, meaning that a failure in one part can
potentially lead to a chain of failures in other components.
Therefore, understanding relationships of parts is crucial to
find out the causal of failure, but this knowledge is mainly
gained by experience not by lectures or textbooks.
The second one is that compared to the past, young en-
gineers now need to address a broader and more specialized
range of failure issues. Japan is currently facing to a prob-
lem of declining birthrate and an aging population, resulting
in a reduced number of young engineers compared to the
past. Moreover, there is growing complexity of automobile
technologies owing to innovations such as CASE (Connected,
Automated, Shared, Electric), Mobility as a Service (MaaS),
and Electric Vehicles, so the burden on each young engineer
has increased.
To address these challenges, a truck company issue