Know Your RAG:
Dataset Taxonomy and Generation Strategies for Evaluating RAG Systems
Rafael Teixeira de Lima1*, Shubham Gupta1,
Cesar Berrospi2, Lokesh Mishra2, Michele Dolfi2, Peter Staar2, Panagiotis Vagenas2
1IBM Research Paris-Saclay, 2 Rue d’Arsonval, Orsay, France;
2IBM Research Zurich, Säumerstrasse 4, Rüschlikon, Switzerland;
*Correspondence: rtdl@ibm.com
Abstract
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) sys-
tems are a widespread application of Large Lan-
guage Models (LLMs) in the industry. While
many tools exist empowering developers to
build their own systems, measuring their per-
formance locally, with datasets reflective of
the system’s use cases, is a technological chal-
lenge. Solutions to this problem range from
non-specific and cheap (most public datasets)
to specific and costly (generating data from
local documents).
In this paper, we show
that using public question and answer (Q&A)
datasets to assess retrieval performance can
lead to non-optimal systems design, and that
common tools for RAG dataset generation can
lead to unbalanced data. We propose solutions
to these issues based on the characterization of
RAG datasets through labels and through label-
targeted data generation. Finally, we show that
fine-tuned small LLMs can efficiently generate
Q&A datasets. We believe that these observa-
tions are invaluable to the know-your-data step
of RAG systems development.
1
Introduction
A Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) system
pairs a Large Language Model (LLM) with an ex-
ternal knowledge source (Lewis et al., 2020; Guu
et al., 2020). Given a user’s query, a retriever adds
relevant information from the knowledge source
(context) to the LLM’s context window, augment-
ing the LLM’s internal knowledge, and helping it
generate a grounded answer with fewer hallucina-
tions (Petroni et al., 2020). This setup allows LLMs
to use information like current news and private en-
terprise data that was not part of their training data
(IBM, 2023), which has prompted rapid adoption
across the community (Nakano et al., 2021; Shuster
et al., 2022; Semnani et al., 2023; Nvidia, 2023).
This adoption has been accompanied by a grow-
ing interest in strategies for evaluating RAG sys-
tems. Recent works focus on evaluating the en-
tire system on a downstream task like question-
answering (Chen et al., 2017). Others separately
measure the retriever’s ability to fetch correct in-
formation (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Salemi and Za-
mani, 2024) and the generator’s ability to incorpo-
rate it in the output (Liu et al., 2023; Chen et al.,
2024). Tools like Ragas (Es et al., 2024), ARES
(Saad-Falcon et al., 2024), and LlamaIndex (Liu,
2022) have been developed for automated LLM-
assisted evaluation of RAG systems. While these
approaches focus on evaluation methods, we take a
step back in this paper and instead focus on the data
used for evaluation (i.e., a set of (context, query,
answer) triplets).
Our first contribution is a taxonomy for question-
context pairs. We propose labels that identify differ-
ent ways a user might interface with a RAG system
on a given dataset. We show that popular public
Q&A datasets can be heavily unbalanced with re-
spect to these labels, and that the performance of
popular retrieval strategies can differ significantly
across these classes. This can lead to performance
measurements that do not reflect how users would
interact with a given system, depending on what
types of labels are expected in practice.
Our second contribution is a demonstration
of different strategies to produce diverse Q&A
datasets from a collection of contexts. First, by em-
ploying prompt engineering and multi-step LLM
querying, then by fine-tuning small LLMs. We
compare these strategies to common alternatives
based on single prompts to big LLMs. This model
can provide an easy-to-use tool to the community
for generating diverse RAG Q&A datasets without
expensive queries to big LLMs1.
We believe our proposals contribute a crucial
know-your-data