Unimib Assistant: designing a student-friendly RAG-based 
chatbot for all their needs 
Chiara Antico1,∗, Stefano Giordano1,∗, Cansu Koyuturk1 and Dimitri Ognibene1 
1 Dept. Psychology, Università degli Studi di Milano Bicocca, Milan, Italy 
Abstract 
Natural language processing skills of Large Language Models (LLMs) are unprecedented, having wide 
diffusion and application in different tasks. This pilot study focuses on specializing ChatGPT behavior 
through a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system using the OpenAI “custom GPTs” feature. The 
purpose of our chatbot, called “Unimib Assistant”, is to provide information and solutions to the specific 
needs of University of Milano-Bicocca (Unimib) students through a question-answering approach. We 
provided the system with a prompt highlighting its specific purpose and behavior, as well as university-
related documents and links obtained from an initial need finding phase, interviewing six students. 
After a preliminary customization phase, a qualitative usability test was conducted with six other 
students to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the chatbot, with the goal of improving it in a 
subsequent redesign phase. While the chatbot was appreciated for its user-friendly experience, 
perceived general reliability, well-structured responses, and conversational tone, several significant 
technical and functional limitations emerged. In particular, the satisfaction and overall experience of 
the users was impaired by the system’s inability to always provide fully accurate information. 
Moreover, it would often neglect to report relevant information even if present in the materials 
uploaded and prompt given. Furthermore, it sometimes generated unclickable links, undermining its 
trustworthiness, since providing the source of information was an important aspect for our users. 
Further in-depth studies and feedback from other users as well as implementation iterations are 
planned to refine our Unimib Assistant. 
Keywords  
ChatGPT, RAG, student-friendly chatbot, user experience, human-centered computing1 
1. Introduction 
The advent of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) and Large Language Models (LLMs) such 
as ChatGPT by OpenAI, which can learn patterns and structures from its training data to generate 
novel content, has allowed conversational agents to respond in a more flexible, dynamic and 
context-aware manner than traditional rule-based chatbots [1]. Since its launch in November 
2022, ChatGPT has gained over 180 million registered users and has received 600 million 
monthly visits as of May 2024 [2]. It is capable of handling diverse queries across multiple topics, 
engaging in casual conversations using natural language, generating coherent text, accounting 
for human feedback, and adapting its responses to enhance user interaction [3]. Despite its 
capabilities, LLMs are not without flaws. They can produce responses that appear correct but are 
in fact nonsensical or inaccurate, a phenomenon referred to as "hallucinations" [4]. This can lead 
to misinformation, as users may also struggle to distinguish what constitutes correct 
information, particularly during information search. Outdated knowledge is another significant 
limit of these systems, undermining users’ trust in the reliability of their outputs, especially in 
question-answering tasks [5]. A possible method to address these issues is employing a 
 
Italian Workshop on Artificial Intelligence for Human Machine Interaction (AIxHMI 2024), November 26, 2024, 
Bolzano, Italy 
∗ Corresponding author. 
 c.antico@campus.unimib.it (C. Antico); s.giordano25@campus.unimib.it (S. Giordano); 
c.koyutuerk@campus.unimib.it (C. Koyuturk); dimitri.ognibene@unimib.it (D. Ognibene) 
 0009-0005-7562-7400 (C. Koyuturk); 0000-0002-9454-680X (D. Ognibene) 
© 2023 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).  
  CEUR Workshop Procee