Toward Optimal Search and Retrieval for RAG
Alexandria Leto
Department of Computer Science
University of Colorado Boulder
alex.leto@colorado.edu
Cecilia Aguerrebere
Intel Labs
cecilia.aguerrebere@intel.com
Ishwar Bhati
Intel Labs
ishwar.s.bhati@intel.com
Ted Willke
Intel Labs
ted.willke@intel.com
Mariano Tepper
Intel Labs
mariano.tepper@intel.com
Vy Ai Vo
Intel Labs
vy.vo@intel.com
Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a promising method for addressing some
of the memory-related challenges associated with Large Language Models (LLMs).
Two separate systems form the RAG pipeline, the retriever and the reader, and
the impact of each on downstream task performance is not well-understood. Here,
we work towards the goal of understanding how retrievers can be optimized for
RAG pipelines for common tasks such as Question Answering (QA). We conduct
experiments focused on the relationship between retrieval and RAG performance
on QA and attributed QA and unveil a number of insights useful to practitioners
developing high-performance RAG pipelines. For example, lowering search ac-
curacy has minor implications for RAG performance while potentially increasing
retrieval speed and memory efficiency.
1
Introduction
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (1) is gaining popularity due to its ability to address some of
the challenges with using Large Language Models (LLMs), including hallucinations (2) and outdated
training data (1; 3). RAG pipelines are made up of two disparate components: a retriever, which
identifies documents relevant to a query from a given corpus, and a reader, which is typically an LLM
prompted with a query, the text of the retrieved documents, and instructions to use this context to
generate its response. However, it is unclear how a RAG pipeline’s performance on downstream tasks
can be attributed to each of these components (1; 2).
In this work, we study the contributions of retrieval to downstream performance.1. For this purpose,
we evaluate pipelines with separately trained retriever and LLM components, as training retrieval-
augmented models end-to-end is both more resource-intensive and obfuscates the contribution of the
retriever itself. We aim to address questions that will enable practitioners to design retrieval systems
tailored for use in RAG pipelines. For example, what are the weaknesses of the typical search and
retrieval setup in RAG systems? Which search hyperparameters matter for RAG task performance?
We choose to evaluate RAG pipeline performance on both standard QA and attributed QA. In
attributed QA, the model is instructed to cite supporting documents provided in the prompt when
1https://www.github.com/intellabs/rag-retrieval-study
Preprint.
arXiv:2411.07396v1  [cs.CL]  11 Nov 2024
making factual claims (4; 5). This task is interesting for its potential to boost the trustworthiness and
verifiability of generated text (6).
We make four contributions: (1) We show how both QA performance and citation metrics vary with
more retrieved documents, adding new data to a small literature on attributed QA with RAG. (2)
We describe how RAG task performance is affected when fewer gold documents are included in
the context. (3) We show that saving retrieval time by decreasing approximate nearest neighbor
(ANN) search accuracy in the retriever has only a minor effect on task performance. (4) We show that
injecting noise into retrieval results in performance degradation. We find no setting that improves
above the gold ceiling, contrary to a prior report (7).
2
Background
A RAG pipeline is made up of two components: a retriever and a reader. The retriever component
identifies relevant information from an exterior knowledge base which is included alongside a query
in a prompt for the reader model (8). This process has been used as an effective alternative to
expensive fine-tuning (2; 9) and is shown to reduce LLM hallucinations (10).
Retrieval models. Dense vector embedding models have become the norm due to t