MBA-RAG: a Bandit Approach for Adaptive Retrieval-Augmented
Generation through Question Complexity
Xiaqiang Tang *1,2, Qiang Gao *2,3, Jian Li *2, Nan Du2,
Qi Li4, Sihong Xie †1,
1The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou),
2Tencent Hunyuan, 3Wuhan University, 4Iowa State University,
Correspondence: sihongxie@hkust-gz.edu.cn
Abstract
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has
proven to be highly effective in boosting the
generative performance of language model in
knowledge-intensive tasks.
However, exist-
ing RAG frameworks either indiscriminately
perform retrieval or rely on rigid single-class
classifiers to select retrieval methods, leading
to inefficiencies and suboptimal performance
across queries of varying complexity. To ad-
dress these challenges, we propose a reinforce-
ment learning-based framework that dynami-
cally selects the most suitable retrieval strategy
based on query complexity. Our approach lever-
ages a multi-armed bandit algorithm, which
treats each retrieval method as a distinct “arm”
and adapts the selection process by balanc-
ing exploration and exploitation. Additionally,
we introduce a dynamic reward function that
balances accuracy and efficiency, penalizing
methods that require more retrieval steps, even
if they lead to a correct result. Our method
achieves new state-of-the-art results on mul-
tiple single-hop and multi-hop datasets while
reducing retrieval costs. Our code is available
at https://github.com/FUTUREEEEEE/MBA
1
Introduction and Related Work
Retrieval Augmented Generation (Lewis et al.,
2020) has shown significant promise in addressing
knowledge-intensive natural language processing
(NLP) tasks by integrating an updated knowledge
base with a language model. This combination
allows language model to access up-to-date knowl-
edge, improving their faithfulness and reducing
hallucinations.
Most existing RAG frameworks employ a
retrieve-and-generate setup that indiscriminately
performs retrieval based on the input. However,
this approach may hinder the versatility of lan-
guage models or introduce unnecessary or off-topic
*Equally contributed authors
†Corresponding author
passages. To address this issue, methods such as
SEAKR (Yao et al., 2024) and FLARE (Jiang et al.,
2023) have been designed to perform active re-
trieval only when necessary.
Furthermore, AdaptiveRAG (Jeong et al., 2024)
argues that real-world queries often vary in dif-
ficulty, such as the number of reasoning steps re-
quired or the depth of information needed to answer
a query. Thus, applying a single retrieval method
across all queries can be ineffective. Simple queries
may incur unnecessary computational overhead
when complex retrieval strategies are used, while
complex, multi-step queries may not be adequately
addressed. To tackle this issue, AdaptiveRAG in-
troduces an adaptive router that selects the retrieval
method based on the complexity of the query. How-
ever, AdaptiveRAG simplifies the retrieval strategy
into a single-choice task by using heuristic supervi-
sion that favors only one process with the least re-
trieval cost. This supervision is inaccurate for two
main reasons. First, it assumes only one strategy is
optimal for one query. For example, while multi-
ple strategies (such as directly answering without
retrieval, retrieving once, or performing iterative
retrieval) might all provide correct answers depend-
ing on the query, only the direct answer method
will be marked as correct. This strict supervision
ignores scenarios where more complex strategies
might offer better context or more comprehensive
answers. Second, this heuristic approach is am-
biguous because retrieval costs vary according to
the query’s difficulty, what constitutes the least cost
can differ significantly between queries of different
complexities.
To overcome these limitations, we propose a
Multi-arm Bandit-based framework for Adaptive
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (MBA-RAG)
Fig. 1, that introduces both flexibility