Enhancing Rhetorical Figure Annotation: An Ontology-Based Web
Application with RAG Integration
Ramona Kühn1, Jelena Mitrovi´c1,2, Michael Granitzer1
1University of Passau 2Institute for AI Research and Development of Serbia
Correspondence: {ramona.kuehn, jelena.mitrovic, michael.granitzer}@uni-passau.de
Abstract
Rhetorical figures play an important role in our
communication. They are used to convey sub-
tle, implicit meaning, or to emphasize state-
ments. We notice them in hate speech, fake
news, and propaganda. By improving the sys-
tems for computational detection of rhetorical
figures, we can also improve tasks such as hate
speech and fake news detection, sentiment anal-
ysis, opinion mining, or argument mining. Un-
fortunately, there is a lack of annotated data,
as well as qualified annotators that would help
us build large corpora to train machine learn-
ing models for the detection of rhetorical fig-
ures. The situation is particularly difficult in
languages other than English, and for rhetorical
figures other than metaphor, sarcasm, and irony.
To overcome this issue, we develop a web ap-
plication called “Find your Figure” that facili-
tates the identification and annotation of Ger-
man rhetorical figures. The application is based
on the German Rhetorical ontology GRhOOT
which we have specially adapted for this pur-
pose. In addition, we improve the user expe-
rience with Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG). In this paper, we present the restruc-
turing of the ontology, the development of the
web application, and the built-in RAG pipeline.
We also identify the optimal RAG settings for
our application. Our approach is one of the
first to practically use rhetorical ontologies in
combination with RAG and shows promising
results.
1
Introduction
The consideration of rhetorical figures from a com-
putational perspective is important, as they can
convey subtle, implicit meanings (e.g., metaphors),
make texts more memorable, or add emphasis to
the message (e.g., through the repetition of words).
Their detection in text regularly leads to improved
performance of various NLP applications, such as
hate speech (Lemmens et al., 2021) or fake news de-
tection (Dwivedi and Wankhade, 2021; Fang et al.,
2019; Rubin et al., 2016; Troiano et al., 2018),
sentiment analysis (Ranganath et al., 2018), or per-
suasive communication in general (Anzilotti, 1982;
Gass and Seiter, 2022; Ranganath et al., 2018).
Unfortunately, most computational approaches
for the detection of rhetorical figures struggle
with lower performance than they could actually
achieve, e.g., Bhattasali et al. (2015); Dubremetz
and Nivre (2015); Zhu et al. (2022). Kühn and
Mitrovi´c (2024a) identify the major challenges for
researchers in this domain and point out why their
approaches often suffer from lower performance.
One of the main reasons is the lack of data or un-
balanced datasets. In these datasets, the number
of instances without rhetorical figures is higher
than those containing them, as shown in Adewumi
et al. (2021); Bhattasali et al. (2015); Dubremetz
and Nivre (2017); Kühn et al. (2023); Kühn et al.
(2024b); Ranganath et al. (2018).
Another major problem is that most detection
approaches focus on English. This means that (an-
notated) data in other languages are even scarcer.
In addition, annotators qualified in this research
field are not easy to find, and the quality of their
annotations varies greatly due to the ambiguous na-
ture of rhetorical figures (Strommer, 2011; Gavidia
et al., 2022).
We overcome those two major challenges in the
domain of rhetorical figure detection by develop-
ing an interactive web application for the collec-
tion of rhetorical figures in German. Users with-
out linguistic knowledge are guided through an
interactive process in which they can determine
the name of a rhetorical figure in a text and anno-
tate it. In addition to the guided input, we offer a
chat-like feature, so users can interact with a large
language model (LLM).