RAG with Differential Privacy
Nicolas Grislain
December 5, 2024
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as the dominant
technique to provide Large Language Models (LLM) with fresh and relevant
context, mitigating the risk of hallucinations and improving the overall quality
of responses in environments with large and fast moving knowledge bases.
However, the integration of external documents into the generation process
raises significant privacy concerns. Indeed, when added to a prompt, it is not
possible to guarantee a response will not inadvertently expose confidential
data, leading to potential breaches of privacy and ethical dilemmas. This paper
explores a practical solution to this problem suitable to general knowledge
extraction from personal data. It shows differentially private token generation
is a viable approach to private RAG.
Introduction
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG, (Lewis et al. 2021)) has become a popular
approach to enhance the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) by supplying
them with up-to-date and pertinent information. This method is particularly valuable
in environments where knowledge bases are large and rapidly evolving, such as news
websites, social media platforms, or scientific research databases. By integrating
fresh context, RAG helps mitigate the risk of “hallucinations”—instances where
the model generates plausible but factually incorrect information—and significantly
improves the overall quality and relevance of the responses generated by the LLM.
However, incorporating external documents into the generation process introduces
substantial privacy concerns. When these documents are included in the input
prompt for the LLM, there is no foolproof way to ensure that the generated response
will not accidentally reveal sensitive or confidential data (Qi et al. 2024). This
potential for inadvertent data exposure can lead to serious breaches of privacy and
presents significant ethical challenges. For instance, if an LLM is used in a healthcare
setting and it accidentally includes patient information from an external document
in its response, it could violate patient confidentiality and legal regulations.
This paper describes a practical solution (DP-RAG) aimed at addressing these
privacy concerns with Differential Privacy (DP). The solution is based on two pillars:
1
arXiv:2412.19291v2  [cs.LG]  22 Jan 2025
• A method to collect documents related to the question in a way that does not
prevent its output to be used in a DP mechanism.
• A method to use the collected documents to prompt a LLM and produce a
response with DP guarantees.
The paper describes also some empirical tests and shows that DP-RAG is most
effective in context where enough documents give elements of response.
Related Work
In general there are two families of approaches to add new knowledge to an LLM. The
first is Fine Tunning (FT) and the other is Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG).
In both these approaches, adding privacy can be done, through simple heuristics
with human validation such as masking or using a systematic and principle-based
approach such as Differential Privacy.
Private Fine-Tuning
A straightforward approach to adding knowledge to an existing LLM is to continue
its training with the new knowledge, to Fine Tune (FT) it. However, this raises
challenges when dealing with private data, as LLMs tend to memorize training data.
(see (Shokri et al. 2017) or (Carlini et al. 2021)).
To mitigate this privacy risk, it is possible to redact sensitive content prior to the
FT process (aka. masking), but this operation is not very reliable and requires
judgment on what should be redacted. This is a difficult manual operation based
on the perceived sensitivity of each field and how it can be used to re-identify an
individual, especially when combined with other publicly available data. Overall, it
is very easy to get wrong; leaning too much on the side of prudence can yield useless
data, while trying t