EdgeRAG: Online-Indexed RAG for Edge Devices
Korakit Seemakhupt1, Sihang Liu2, and Samira Khan1,3
1 University of Virginia, 2 University of Waterloo, 3 Google
Abstract
Deploying Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG) on resource-constrained edge devices is
challenging due to limited memory and process-
ing power. In this work, we propose EdgeRAG
which addresses the memory constraint by prun-
ing embeddings within clusters and generating
embeddings on-demand during retrieval. To avoid
the latency of generating embeddings for large
tail clusters, EdgeRAG pre-computes and stores
embeddings for these clusters, while adaptively
caching remaining embeddings to minimize re-
dundant computations and further optimize la-
tency. The result from BEIR suite shows that
EdgeRAG offers significant latency reduction
over the baseline IVF index, but with similar gen-
eration quality while allowing all of our evaluated
datasets to fit into the memory.
1. Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) enable new applications
such as smart assistants (Google, 2024; Microsoft). The
processing of these powerful LLMs is usually offloaded to
the datacenter due to the enormous resources required. How-
ever, the latest mobile platforms enable smaller LLM to run
locally. These lightweight models cannot directly compare
with the state-of-the-art hundred-billion parameter LLMs.
To enhance these models to process users’ custom data and
applications, a promising solution is to build a compounding
system. By integrating LLMs with Retrieval Augmented
Generation (RAG), these smaller models can leverage local
personal data to generate high-quality responses.
Even though RAG removes the requirement for a heavy-
weight LLM for generation, retrieval still has a high over-
head. The core of a RAG system is a vector database that
enables vector similarity search. Different from LLMs,
the overhead of RAG mainly comes from its memory foot-
print. For example, a Flat Index stores and sequentially
searches every vector representation of the data chunks to
identify the closest match to the query. For example, in
fever(Thorne et al., 2018) dataset, a vector database that
holds 5.23 million records has an index size of 18.5 GB.
In comparison, mobile devices tend to have 4-12 GB of
main memory (Wiens, 2024; Sam, 2024). Thus even using
the whole memory on a mobile platform is not sufficient
to run a large vector database. On the other hand, storing
the vector database on disk introduces substantial access
latency, impacting performance.
Our research focused on the challenges of implement-
ing Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) on edge sys-
tems—mainly the overhead of the vector similarity search.
We find that naively keeping the entire index in the main
memory would not fit into the memory of mobile platforms.
A Flat index which performs sequential search of all embed-
dings not only expensive in term of computation, but also
trash memory leading to poor performance. On the other
hand, Two-level Inverted File (IVF) index clusters embed-
dings of data chunks into centroids. The retrieval process
first searches for the closest centroid and then performs a
second search within the cluster. Thus, avoid expensive
sequential search of all embeddings. However, keeping
all embeddings in memory still leads to excessive memory
thrashing and increased latency. Thus, keeping the first-
level centroid in memory and generating the second level
online can be a promising solution. Through further profil-
ing the RAG on mobile platforms using widely-used RAG
benchmarks (Thakur et al., 2021), we find that both the data
access pattern and the access latency are highly skewed.
First, most of the embedding vectors are not searched dur-
ing the retrieval process. Second, the cost of generating the
embedding vector is not the same for all clusters and has an
extreme tail distribution. These skewness leave space for
further optimizations.
In this work, we develop a mobile RAG system, EdgeRAG
that enable