Composing Open-domain Vision with RAG for Ocean
Monitoring and Conservation
Sepand Dyanatkar∗, Angran Li, Alexander Dungate
OnDeck Fisheries AI
Abstract
Climate change’s destruction of marine biodiversity is threatening communities and
economies around the world which rely on healthy oceans for their livelihoods. The
challenge of applying computer vision to niche, real-world domains such as ocean
conservation lies in the dynamic and diverse environments where traditional top-
down learning struggle with long-tailed distributions, generalization, and domain
transfer. Scalable species identification for ocean monitoring is particularly difficult
due to the need to adapt models to new environments and identify rare or unseen
species. To overcome these limitations, we propose leveraging bottom-up, open-
domain learning frameworks as a resilient, scalable solution for image and video
analysis in marine applications. Our preliminary demonstration uses pretrained
vision-language models (VLMs) combined with retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) as grounding, leaving the door open for numerous architectural, training
and engineering optimizations. We validate this approach through a preliminary
application in classifying fish from video onboard fishing vessels, demonstrating
impressive emergent retrieval and prediction capabilities without domain-specific
training or knowledge of the task itself.
1
Introduction
Reliable and timely data is critical for addressing climate challenges driving global biodiversity
collapse, and threatening 3 billion livelihoods that depend on healthy oceans [5]. Thousands of
cameras are deployed around the world underwater, on drones, on fishing vessels, and via satellite
to monitor marine life and inform critical management tasks. The scale of the data they produce is
already impossible for humans to handle. In fisheries monitoring alone, thousands of hours of video
are generated per boat, making its manual review crushingly slow, not scalable, and unaffordable. [29].
Automated processing of visual data brings key insights about marine activity at an unprecedented
scale. Traditional vision approaches, such as CNNs and basic vision transformers [13, 3], require
extensive retraining for new environments and perform poorly when faced with rare or unseen
species. These top-down methods struggle with generalization, domain transfer, and handling
long-tailed distributions, and are infeasible for scalable ocean applications. Generalizable species
identification stands to revolutionize marine management by providing comprehensive data on marine
life distribution and their responses to climate change - vital for management of sustainable fisheries,
invasive species, carbon sequestration, and ecosystem health.
To overcome these challenges, we propose leveraging bottom-up, open-domain learning frameworks
as a scalable and resilient solution, where knowledge about tuna species or oil spills are connected in
a modular way, even after deployment. In this proposal, we show one accessible method for grounded,
open-domain vision and highlight the promise of vision-language models (VLMs) combined with
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) [2, 26, 4, 17, 30]. This approach enhances generalization
∗Corresponding author: sepand@ondeck-ai.com. Website: https://ondeck.fish
Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning: workshop at NeurIPS 2024.
arXiv:2412.02262v1  [cs.CV]  3 Dec 2024
across diverse environments and enables accurate identification of unseen species by integrating
external knowledge during inference.
2
Related Work
Traditional vision methods such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs), single-stage detectors,
and vision transformers [7, 24, 3] have been the cornerstone of visual recognition. These top-down
methods have shown reliable performance in closed-set, uni-domain climate applications, including
environmental monitoring [21, 20, 1]. However, their effectiveness diminishes in generalized climate
applications w