Multi-task retriever fine-tuning for domain-specific and
efficient RAG
Patrice Bechard
ServiceNow
Montreal, Canada
patrice.bechard@servicenow.com
Orlando Marquez Ayala
ServiceNow
Montreal, Canada
orlando.marquez@servicenow.com
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has become ubiquitous
when deploying Large Language Models (LLMs), as it can address
typical limitations such as generating hallucinated or outdated in-
formation. However, when building real-world RAG applications,
practical issues arise. First, the retrieved information is generally
domain-specific. Since it is computationally expensive to fine-tune
LLMs, it is more feasible to fine-tune the retriever model to improve
the quality of the data included in the LLM input. Second, as more
applications are deployed in the same real-world system, one cannot
afford to deploy separate retrievers for different tasks. Moreover,
these RAG applications normally retrieve different kinds of data.
Our solution is to instruction fine-tune a small retriever model on a
variety of domain-specific tasks to allow us to deploy one model that
can serve many use cases, thereby achieving low-cost, scalability,
and speed. We show how this model generalizes to out-of-domain
settings as well as to an unseen retrieval task on real-world enterprise
use cases.
CCS Concepts
• Computing methodologies →Information extraction; Multi-
task learning; Learning to rank; • Information systems →Re-
trieval models and ranking.
Keywords
Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Workflows, Fine-Tuning, Multi-
Task, Retriever
1
Introduction
As more and more Generative AI (GenAI) applications are inte-
grated into real-world production systems, Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) has been adopted in industry as a common tech-
nique to improve the output of Large Language Models (LLMs).
RAG alleviates inherent LLM pitfalls such as propensity to halluci-
nate, generating outdated knowledge, and lack of traceability to data
sources [6, 9].
Introducing a retrieval step into the generation process introduces,
however, several practical challenges. While an LLM with a large
number of parameters, such as GPT-4 [19], can be prompted to work
with any kind of input and generate any kind of textual output, the
retriever needs to be small, fast, and perform well with data sources
that tend to be domain-specific.
KDD Workshop ’25, Toronto, Canada
2025.
steps
table names
field names
activities
subflows
field values
catalog items
Workflows
Playbooks
Code
Retriever
LLM
Figure 1: Given an ecosystem of RAG applications, how do we
build a retriever that can adapt to a specific domain and to a
variety of retrieval tasks?
Off-the-shelf retrievers of different sizes are available to AI prac-
titioners. Embedding services such as Voyage1 perform well on
open-source benchmarks but they do not necessarily generalize to
the kind of data seen in real-world settings, especially when this data
is structured and comes from existing databases.
Another practical challenge is achieving scalability and general-
ization across different GenAI use cases that depend on retrieval. A
crucial advantage of LLMs compared to traditional machine learning
models is that they can generalize to a myriad of tasks due to vast
amounts of pretraining data and instruction fine-tuning [20, 31, 34].
But if the retriever does not perform well and fast across many re-
trieval tasks, the downstream generation will be negatively affected.
The problem we are trying to solve is then: how to adapt the
retrieval step to a specific domain and to a variety of retrieval
tasks? In this work, we are not interested in the choice of LLM,
1https://docs.voyageai.com/docs/embeddings
arXiv:2501.04652v2  [cs.CL]  16 Jul 2025
KDD Workshop ’25, August 03–07,2025, Toronto, Canada
Patrice Bechard and Orlando Marquez Ayala
assuming that improvements in the retrieved results translate into
improvements in the downstream generation task.
The context is an enterprise company that deploys seve