A RAG-Based Institutional Assistant
Gustavo Kuratomi1, Paulo Pirozelli2, Fabio G. Cozman1, Sarajane M. Peres3
1 Escola Polit´ecnica
2Instituto de Estudos Avanc¸ados
3Escola de Artes, Ciˆencias e Humanidades
Universidade de S˜ao Paulo
{gustavokpc,paulo.pirozelli.silva,fgcozman,sarajane}@usp.br
Abstract. Although large language models (LLMs) demonstrate strong text
generation capabilities, they struggle in scenarios requiring access to struc-
tured knowledge bases or specific documents, limiting their effectiveness in
knowledge-intensive tasks. To address this limitation, retrieval-augmented ge-
neration (RAG) models have been developed, enabling generative models to
incorporate relevant document fragments into their inputs. In this paper, we
design and evaluate a RAG-based virtual assistant specifically tailored for the
University of S˜ao Paulo. Our system architecture comprises two key modules: a
retriever and a generative model. We experiment with different types of models
for both components, adjusting hyperparameters such as chunk size and the
number of retrieved documents. Our optimal retriever model achieves a Top-
5 accuracy of 30%, while our most effective generative model scores 22.04%
against ground truth answers. Notably, when the correct document chunks are
supplied to the LLMs, accuracy significantly improves to 54.02%, an increase of
over 30 percentage points. Conversely, without contextual input, performance
declines to 13.68%. These findings highlight the critical role of database ac-
cess in enhancing LLM performance. They also reveal the limitations of current
semantic search methods in accurately identifying relevant documents and un-
derscore the ongoing challenges LLMs face in generating precise responses.
1. Introduction
Question answering (QA) has long been a central concern in natural language proces-
sing. Traditionally, models have been fine-tuned on question-answering datasets—such
as SQuAD [Rajpurkar et al. 2016] and MS MARCO [Nguyen et al. 2016]—following an
initial phase of language model pretraining. With the advent of large language models
(LLMs), standalone fine-tuning has mostly become obsolete, due to to these models’ im-
pressive in-context learning abilities [Bubeck et al. 2023]. LLMs generally perform sa-
tisfactorily on question-answering tasks, especially for factual questions, since they have
likely encountered relevant information during training. However, LLMs still face a signi-
ficant limitation: they do not have access to external knowledge bases, making it difficult
to ensure they respond according to predefined answers. This limitation is particularly
pressing when answers depend on documents that are private, frequently updated, or dif-
ficult to access.
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [Lewis et al. 2020] is an architecture de-
signed to address this problem. It consists of a modular structure where—in its standard
arXiv:2501.13880v1  [cs.CL]  23 Jan 2025
version—two components are coupled together: a retriever module, responsible for fin-
ding relevant chunks of text, and a language generation module, which takes a question
and the retrieved information to create an answer. This complex architecture allows better
control over the information the model uses to answer questions, enables tracing back the
source of answers, and disentangles the different steps in answer generation (retrieval and
generation). More importantly, new documents can be constantly added to the database
without the need for additional retraining.
In this paper, we present and evaluate a RAG-based application tailored for an
educational context: a virtual assistant for the University of S˜ao Paulo (USP).1 USP, one
of the largest universities in Brazil, with nearly 100K students and a complex structure
that includes multiple campuses, institutes, and courses, presents unique challenges in
accessing information related to its institutional and regulatory aspects. This environment
provides a valuable oppor