First Token Probability Guided RAG for Telecom
Question Answering
Tingwei Chen∗, Jiayi Chen∗, Zijian Zhao∗‡, Haolong Chen∗†, Liang Zhang∗, Guangxu Zhu∗
∗Shenzhen Research Institute of Big Data, Shenzhen, China
† School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen), Shenzhen, China
‡ School of Computer Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China
Abstract—Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered
significant attention for their impressive general-purpose capa-
bilities. For applications requiring intricate domain knowledge,
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has shown a distinct
advantage in incorporating domain-specific information into
LLMs. However, existing RAG research has not fully addressed
the challenges of Multiple Choice Question Answering (MCQA)
in telecommunications, particularly in terms of retrieval quality
and mitigating hallucinations. To tackle these challenges, we
propose a novel first token probability guided RAG framework.
This framework leverages confidence scores to optimize key
hyperparameters, such as chunk number and chunk window
size, while dynamically adjusting the context. Our method starts
by retrieving the most relevant chunks and generates a single
token as the potential answer. The probabilities of all options are
then normalized to serve as confidence scores, which guide the
dynamic adjustment of the context. By iteratively optimizing the
hyperparameters based on these confidence scores, we can con-
tinuously improve RAG performance. We conducted experiments
to validate the effectiveness of our framework, demonstrating its
potential to enhance accuracy in domain-specific MCQA tasks.
Index
Terms—Retrieval-Augmented
Generation;
Multiple
Choice Question Answering.
I. INTRODUCTION
Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered significant
attention due to their impressive general-purpose capabili-
ties [1]–[3]. These generative language models can understand
and process user inputs, comprehend complex knowledge,
and generate high-quality answers, demonstrating extensive
understanding of general human knowledge. As LLMs have
shown excellent general capabilities, they have been applied
not only in natural language, but also in fields like code [4],
mathematics [5], and music [6].
For specific applications with intricate domain knowledge,
LLMs have a potential shortfall in the precision and depth
of knowledge and thus limit their ability to fully meet the
nuanced demands. To inject domain-specific knowledge into
LLMs, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) shows a sig-
nificant advantage in that it does not require the huge computa-
tional resources and can efficiently extract useful information
from a large external knowledge base, which can even be
updated at any time without incurring additional costs [7].
RAG enhances the capability of LLMs to address specific
industry challenges by leveraging external knowledge bases
during the generation process. This method involves two main
Corresponding author: Guangxu Zhu
components: a retriever and a generator. The retriever com-
ponent searches a large corpus of domain-specific chunks to
find relevant information, while the generator component uses
this information to produce contextually appropriate responses.
The core of RAG is retrieving the most relevant information
efficiently and accurately and transferring it as an efficient
prompt to make it understandable by LLMs, all of which have
been the subject of extensive research [8]–[10].
In the field of telecommunications, the rapid advancement
and complexity of technologies necessitate a deep understand-
ing of communication protocols. Professionals in this domain
need to meticulously retrieve and study these protocols to
grasp the intricate logical mechanisms and technical details
that govern the entire communication process. With the con-
tinuous evolution of 5G, 6G, and forthcoming generations of
communication protocols, the corpus of knowledge in this
dom