Systematic Knowledge Injection into Large Language Models via Diverse
Augmentation for Domain-Specific RAG
Kushagra Bhushan*†1, Yatin Nandwani*2, Dinesh Khandelwal2, Sonam Gupta2,
Gaurav Pandey2, Dinesh Raghu2, and Sachindra Joshi2
20je0506@mc.iitism.ac.in, {yatin.nandwani@, dikhand1@in., sonam.gupta7@,
gpandey1@in.,diraghu1@in., jsachind@in.}ibm.com
1IIT(ISM) Dhanbad
2IBM Research
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has
emerged as a prominent method for incorporat-
ing domain knowledge into Large Language
Models (LLMs).
While RAG enhances re-
sponse relevance by incorporating retrieved do-
main knowledge in the context, retrieval errors
can still lead to hallucinations and incorrect
answers. To recover from retriever failures, do-
main knowledge is injected by fine-tuning the
model to generate the correct response, even in
the case of retrieval errors. However, we ob-
serve that without systematic knowledge aug-
mentation, fine-tuned LLMs may memorize
new information but still fail to extract rele-
vant domain knowledge, leading to poor per-
formance. In this work, we present a novel
framework that significantly enhances the fine-
tuning process by augmenting the training data
in two ways – context augmentation and knowl-
edge paraphrasing. In context augmentation,
we create multiple training samples for a given
QA pair by varying the relevance of the re-
trieved information, teaching the model when
to ignore and when to rely on retrieved con-
tent. In knowledge paraphrasing, we fine-tune
with multiple answers to the same question, en-
abling LLMs to better internalize specialized
knowledge. To mitigate catastrophic forgetting
due to fine-tuning, we add a domain-specific
identifier to a question and also utilize a replay
buffer containing general QA pairs. Experi-
mental results demonstrate the efficacy of our
method over existing techniques, achieving up
to 10% relative gain in token-level recall while
preserving the LLM’s generalization capabili-
ties.
1
Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) have transformed
natural language processing, excelling across vari-
ous tasks (Brown et al., 2020). To tailor LLMs
*Equal contribution.
†This work was conducted while Kushagra Bhushan was
an intern at IBM Research.
for domain-specific applications, such as ques-
tion answering over specialized corpora, Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a
popular approach (Lewis et al., 2020; Karpukhin
et al., 2020). Although RAG enhances the rele-
vance of generated answers, it is prone to hallu-
cinations (Ji et al., 2023; Nandwani et al., 2023),
especially when the retriever fails to fetch relevant
documents from the corpus.
To address this issue, knowledge injection tech-
niques (Zhang et al., 2024a; Yoran et al., 2024)
have been proposed. Knowledge injection has two
main objectives: (1) when the retriever succeeds in
fetching correct documents, then the LLM should
be able to leverage that information to generate an
appropriate response, and (2) when the retriever
fails, the LLM should recall the domain specific in-
formation from the infused parametric knowledge
to generate the response. To achieve them, existing
techniques fine-tune LLMs with domain-specific
data, embedding the knowledge directly into the
LLM’s parameters. Specifically, these techniques
fine-tune LLMs to generate the correct response
to a question irrespective of the relevance of the
retrieved documents. However, existing knowledge
injection techniques suffer from two main issues:
1) Conditional Memorization Bias: In the train-
ing data, each question is assigned to either a
retrieval success or a retrieval failure scenario.
I.e., the relevant information to answer the ques-
tion is either present or absent in the given con-
text for a question. This static assignment de-
termines how the LLM learns the knowledge.
For example, consider a scenario where all train-
ing questions from a particular document are
assigned to the ‘retrieval success’ bucke