A Socratic RAG Approach to Connect Natural Language Queries on Research
Topics with Knowledge Organization Systems
Lew Lefton1, Kexin Rong1, Chinar Dankhara1, Lila Ghemri2, Firdous Kausar3, A. Hannibal
Hamdallahi3
1Georgia Institute of Technology
2Texas Southern University
3Fisk University
lew.lefton@gatech.edu, krong@gatech.edu, chinardankhara@gatech.edu, lila.ghemri@tsu.edu, fkausar@fisk.edu,
aleach@fisk.edu
Abstract
In this paper, we propose a Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG) agent that maps natural language queries about re-
search topics to precise, machine-interpretable semantic en-
tities. Our approach combines RAG with Socratic dialogue
to align users’ intuitive understanding of research topics
with established Knowledge Organization Systems (KOSs).
The proposed approach will effectively bridge ”little seman-
tics” (domain-specific KOS structures) with ”big semantics”
(broad bibliometric repositories), making complex academic
taxonomies more accessible. Such agents have the potential
for broad use. We illustrate with a sample application called
CollabNext, which is a person-centric knowledge graph con-
necting people, organizations, and research topics. We fur-
ther describe how the application design has an intentional
focus on HBCUs and emerging researchers to raise visibility
of people historically rendered invisible in the current science
system.
Introduction
What is a research topic? Research is carried out on almost
everything, so the concept space is wide and deep. It is un-
surprising that there is no universal resource that covers all
research concepts. Instead, many domain-specific Knowl-
edge Organization Systems (KOS) have emerged provid-
ing ontologies, taxonomies, lists, and thesauri of their ar-
eas (Salatino et al. 2024). These KOSs are good sources of
expert-curated ground truth. Unfortunately, in a KOS, topic
data typically consists only of strings and not semantic enti-
ties, which makes research topics a weak link in knowledge
axiomatization and research classification.
A knee-jerk reaction to this challenge is to leverage a
Large Language Model (LLM) to generate research topics,
based on a corpus of research papers, datasets, etc. In fact,
there are many tools in the area of topic classification that
do precisely that. Unfortunately, LLM generated topics do
not align well with how human beings talk and think about
research.
Alignment of natural language research topics with struc-
tured KOSs is needed for CollabNext (CollabNext 2024),
an application currently under development as part of the
Copyright © 2025, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
National Science Foundation’s Prototype Open Knowledge
Network (NSF 2023). CollabNext allows users to explore
who is working in what research area and where they are.
While this seems simple and straightforward to answer, it
turns out to be quite nuanced and challenging. Name colli-
sions make it difficult to identify the ”who”, especially for
common names or Asian names (Kim, Kim, and Kim 2023).
Organizations, the ”where”, can also have multiple names,
campuses, etc. Fortunately, for both individuals and organi-
zations, there are established and open semantic structures,
for example in schema.org (W3C 2014) or Wikidata.org
(Wikidata contributors 2024), and available persistent iden-
tifiers, e.g. ORCID (ORCID Inc. 2024) and ROR (Research
Organization Registry 2024). Research topics, the ”what”,
turn out to be more complicated. There is no universal list of
research concepts, and certainly nothing that compares to a
persistent identifier.
This paper begins with a brief overview of related work on
the challenge of organizing research topics. We then provide
a short description of CollabNext, including its intentional
design to increase the visibility of emerging researchers. We
share an example that highlights the challenge and impor-
tance of aligning natural language research topic queries
wit