MCTS-RAG: Enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Generation with
Monte Carlo Tree Search
Yunhai HuN ∗
Yilun ZhaoY ∗
Chen ZhaoN
Arman CohanY
Y Yale University
NNew York University
https://github.com/yale-nlp/MCTS-RAG
Abstract
We introduce MCTS-RAG, a novel approach
that enhances the reasoning capabilities of
small language models on knowledge-intensive
tasks by leveraging retrieval-augmented gen-
eration (RAG) to provide relevant context and
Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to refine
reasoning paths. MCTS-RAG dynamically in-
tegrates retrieval and reasoning through an iter-
ative decision-making process. Unlike standard
RAG methods, which typically retrieve infor-
mation independently from reasoning and thus
integrate knowledge suboptimally, or conven-
tional MCTS reasoning, which depends solely
on internal model knowledge without exter-
nal facts, MCTS-RAG combines structured
reasoning with adaptive retrieval. This inte-
grated approach enhances decision-making, re-
duces hallucinations, and ensures improved fac-
tual accuracy and response consistency. The
experimental results on multiple reasoning
and knowledge-intensive datasets datasets (i.e.,
ComplexWebQA, GPQA, and FoolMeTwice)
show that our method enables small-scale LMs
to achieve performance comparable to fron-
tier LLMs like GPT-4o by effectively scaling
inference-time compute, setting a new standard
for reasoning in small-scale models.
1
Introduction
Recent advancements in MCTS-based reason-
ing have demonstrated remarkable improvements
in structured decision-making and logical infer-
ence (Kocsis and Szepesvári, 2006; Browne et al.,
2012; Xie et al., 2024a). The rStar framework (Qi
et al., 2024), for instance, has shown that system-
atic search and exploration can significantly en-
hance reasoning performance, enabling small-scale
LMs (i.e., models with up to 7B parameters) to
compete with much larger models. However, a
key limitation of these approaches is their heavy
∗Equal contributions.
Correspondence: Yilun Zhao
(yilun.zhao@yale.edu)
A textile dye containing an 
conjugated pi-electrons emits 
light with energy of 2.3393 eV. 
What color of light is absorbed 
by the organic compound?
Finding 1: MCTS-RAG achieves better performance than baselines 
Finding 2: Concurrency + Pruning = Faster Tree Search
Finding 3: In-depth Analysis on Effectiveness of MCTS-RAG
The answer is: 
Red
MCTS-RAG Framework
Parallel action expansions & retrieval 
pruning greatly improve efficiency
Parallel Expansion
Retrieval Pruning
….
Base LLM
Compared Baselines
rStar, ReAct, Self-Ask, Self-RAG, FLARE, Iter-RetGen, 
Search-O1, AutoRAG, TC-RAG, IterDRAG, DeepRAG
Evaluation Datasets
QA: ComplexWebQA, GPQA
Fact Checking: FoolMeTwice
Impact of different actions
Impact of different rollout strategies 
MCTS-RAG demonstrates (1) enhanced external 
knowledge utilization and (2) reduced hallucination
Human analysis & Case Study 
Figure 1: Overview of the research. The top panel
illustrates the proposed MCTS-RAG framework, while
the bottom panel summarizes three key findings from
our experiments and analysis.
reliance on internal knowledge, which hinders their
effectiveness in knowledge-intensive tasks.
On the other hand, RAG has been widely used to
solve knowledge-intensive tasks (Lewis et al., 2020;
Karpukhin et al., 2020; Izacard and Grave, 2021;
Zhao et al., 2025), but its effectiveness with small-
scale LMs remains limited. small-scale LMs strug-
gle with query formulation and retrieved content
comprehension, often generating vague queries and
misinterpreting key details (Fan et al., 2025). More-
over, existing RAG systems do not dynamically
adjust their retrieval strategies based on changing
informational or reasoning requirements, which re-
sults in unnecessary or repetitive retrieval steps (Li
et al., 2024; Gao et al., 2024). For example, when
answering a multi-hop question like “Which novel
inspired the movie that won Best Picture in 1994?”,
a standard retrieval system might retrieve docu-
ments about