More Documents, Same Length:
Isolating the Challenge of Multiple Documents in RAG
Shahar Levy*
Nir Mazor*
Lihi Shalmon*
Michael Hassid
Gabriel Stanovsky
School of Computer Science and Engineering
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel
{shahar.levy2, nir.mazor, lihi.shalmon, michael.hassid, gabriel.stanovsky}@mail.huji.ac.il
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) en-
hances the accuracy of Large Language Model
(LLM) responses by leveraging relevant exter-
nal documents during generation. Although
previous studies noted that retrieving many
documents can degrade performance, they did
not isolate how the quantity of documents af-
fects performance while controlling for context
length. We evaluate various language models
on custom datasets derived from a multi-hop
QA task. We keep the context length and po-
sition of relevant information constant while
varying the number of documents, and find
that increasing the document count in RAG
settings poses significant challenges for most
LLMs, reducing performance by up to 20%.
However, Qwen2.5 maintained consistent re-
sults across increasing document counts, indi-
cating better multi-document handling capabil-
ity. Finally, our results indicate that process-
ing multiple documents is a separate challenge
from handling long contexts. We also make the
datasets and code available1 to facilitate further
research in multi-document retrieval.
1
Introduction
The RAG approach enriches prompts with rele-
vant documents, retrieved according to an input
query (Karpukhin et al., 2020). For example, given
a question about a certain historical period, RAG
techniques can retrieve documents related to the
time from a large historical corpus.
Recent work has noted a drop in RAG perfor-
mance when retrieving many documents. For ex-
ample, in multi-hop QA, LLMs struggle when the
number of retrieved documents grows, even when
presented with all the needed information (Press
et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2023; Levy et al., 2024;
Wang et al., 2024). Such deficiencies were ob-
served without controlling for the number of tokens
*Equal contribution.
1https://github.com/shaharl6000/MoreDocsSameLen
Figure 1: More Documents, Same Length. We create
various sets containing the same questions but differ-
ing in the number of distractor documents. Each set
includes a multi-hop question, all of the supporting doc-
uments that contain the information to answer the ques-
tion (pink), and varying distractor documents (blue).We
begin with either 10 or 20 documents (depending on the
dataset) as our full-doc version (left) and then reduce
the number of documents while maintaining a fixed
context size. When fewer documents are used, the re-
maining documents are extended (blue without text) so
that concatenating them yields the same total length.
in which the information is conveyed, i.e., when
the number of documents grew, so did the num-
ber of overall tokens, thus conflating between the
challenge of long context and multi document.
In this work, we address the following question:
Assuming a fixed input length, how is LLM per-
arXiv:2503.04388v2  [cs.CL]  23 Oct 2025
(a) MusiQue
(b) 2WikiMultihopQA
Figure 2: Increasing the number of retrieved documents can hurt performance. In retrieval setups with fixed
context windows, adding more documents could reduce performance by up to 10 percent. Two models (Llama-3.3
and Gemma-2) showed worse performance, while Qwen-2.5 remained unaffected. The smaller versions of the
LLMs (7–9B) show a similar trend as their larger counterparts but the effect is weaker. The hues of the bars
represent the amount of retrieved documents.
formance affected by the number of retrieved doc-
uments? This disentangles the challenge of long
context from the challenge in processing collec-
tions of related documents – which often contain
redundancies, conflicting information, and implicit
inter-document relations (Hirsch et al., 2023; Lior
et al., 2024). From a practical perspective, answ