OpenRAG: Optimizing RAG End-to-End via In-Context Retrieval Learning
Jiawei Zhou 1 Lei Chen 1
1Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
Abstract
In this paper, we analyze and empirically show
that the learned relevance for conventional in-
formation retrieval (IR) scenarios may be incon-
sistent in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
scenarios.
To bridge this gap, we introduce
Open-Rag, a RAG framework that is OPtimized
ENd-to-end by tuning the retriever to capture in-
context relevance, enabling adaptation to the di-
verse and evolving needs. Extensive experiments
across a wide range of tasks demonstrate that
Open-Rag, by tuning a retriever end-to-end, leads
to a consistent improvement of 4.0% over the orig-
inal retriever, consistently outperforming exist-
ing state-of-the-art retrievers by 2.1%. Addition-
ally, our results indicate that for some tasks, an
end-to-end tuned 0.2B retriever can achieve im-
provements that surpass those of RAG-oriented
or instruction-tuned 8B large language models
(LLMs), highlighting the cost-effectiveness of
our approach in enhancing RAG systems.
1. Introduction
As large language models (LLMs) (Zhao et al., 2023; Mi-
naee et al., 2024) scale, they face a data bottleneck where the
high-quality internet data unable to meet growing training
demands. Meanwhile, the volume of downstream data is ex-
panding rapidly but often remains unusable for pre-training
due to their real-time availability (Wang et al., 2024b; Liu
et al., 2023), privacy concerns (Arora et al., 2023), licensing
restrictions (Min et al., 2024), and ethical concern (Serouis
& Sèdes, 2024; Ayyamperumal & Ge, 2024).
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020;
Guu et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2023) emerges as a promis-
ing solution to this challenge. Rather than relying solely
on well-curated internet data, RAG leverages information
retrieval (IR) to fetch relevant data from external sources
and incorporates it as context to enhance generation qual-
ity. This is valuable as RAG enables the use of rapidly
expanding yet often inaccessible downstream data, which
are more scalable and up-to-date than the heavily processed
and regulated internet data used in pre-training.
Figure 1. Comparison of query-document relevance in IR scenario
and RAG scenario.
Despite their success, existing RAG frameworks typically
rely onoff-the-shelf retrieverstrained onQAdatasets, which
can lead to inconsistencies between the learned retrieval
relevance and the needs of downstream tasks. This dis-
crepancy highlights key relevance gaps between IR and
RAG scenarios.
We explore these gaps in detail below,
drawing on insights from prior research. First, there is the
broadening of tasks: traditional IR datasets (Kwiatkowski
et al., 2019; Bajaj et al., 2016) are designed mainly for
open-domain question-answering (OpenQA), while RAG
framework are applied to a wider range of tasks, such as
recommendation (Manzoor & Jannach, 2022), dialog sys-
tems (Liu et al., 2024), and role-playing (Wang et al., 2023),
where task requirements can be flexibly written as instruc-
tions.
We refer to relevance in these two cases as QA
relevance and in-context relevance, respectively, as shown
in Figure 1. Second, the role of retrieved documents has
shifted: in IR, retrieved documents are the final output pro-
vided to users, whereas in RAG, they are fed into the LLM
to generate a response. Recent studies (Cuconasu et al.,
2024a;b; Wu et al., 2024) have shown that including more
answer-containing documents, which align with QA rele-
vance in IR scenarios, can harm RAG performance, while
documents without direct answers may actually help. These
findings challenge traditional IR assumptions in the RAG
setting. Finally, the complexity of queries has increased:
unlike traditional IR, where queries are typically simple
questions, RAG queries tend to be more diverse and noisy,
reflecting varying levels of task complexity. Several stud-
1
arXiv:2503.08398v1  [cs.CL]  11 Mar 2