MES-RAG: Bringing Multi-modal, Entity-Storage, and Secure
Enhancements to RAG
Pingyu Wu1,2, Daiheng Gao1,3, Jing Tang4, Huimin Chen5,
Wenbo Zhou1, Weiming Zhang1, Nenghai Yu1,
1USTC 2Hefei ZhikeShuzi 3Eliza Labs 4HUST 5Independent Researcher
Correspondence: Wenbo Zhou
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) im-
proves Large Language Models (LLMs) by us-
ing external knowledge, but it struggles with
precise entity information retrieval.
In this
paper, we proposed MES-RAG framework,
which enhances entity-specific query handling
and provides accurate, secure, and consis-
tent responses. MES-RAG introduces proac-
tive security measures that ensure system in-
tegrity by applying protections prior to data
access. Additionally, the system supports real-
time multi-modal outputs, including text, im-
ages, audio, and video, seamlessly integrat-
ing into existing RAG architectures. Exper-
imental results demonstrate that MES-RAG
significantly improves both accuracy and re-
call, highlighting its effectiveness in advancing
the security and utility of question-answering,
increasing accuracy to 0.83 (+0.25) on tar-
geted task. Our code and data are available
at https://github.com/wpydcr/MES-RAG.
1
Introduction
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is an
emerging approach (Kaddour et al., 2023; Hadi
et al., 2023) that significantly enhances the capabil-
ity of LLMs (Touvron et al., 2023; OpenAI et al.,
2024). By leveraging external knowledge from re-
trieved passages, RAG can alleviate issues such
as hallucination (Lewis et al., 2020; Zhang et al.,
2023) and inconsistency (Saxena et al., 2023; Fan
et al., 2024) in LLM outputs.
However, traditional RAG systems (Lewis et al.,
2020; Ram et al., 2023) often focus on document-
level retrieval, which lacks the fine-grained under-
standing needed to accurately capture entity-related
details scattered across multiple sources. This lim-
itation is further exacerbated by the intermingled
storage (Ren et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2024) of infor-
mation from different entities, leading to retrieval
noise and compromising the relevance and factual
accuracy of generated content.
For example, when answering questions about a
specific product, RAG systems may inadvertently
retrieve information about similar products, thus
introducing irrelevant or misleading results (Ebner
et al., 2020). In terms of multi-modal data output
capabilities, limitations in multi-modal generative
models (Liu et al., 2023) are further exacerbated
by inaccuracies in data descriptions and a lack of
sufficient, relevant training data, ultimately leading
to suboptimal user experiences(Qian et al., 2024).
Furthermore, RAG systems are vulnerable to secu-
rity threats such as malicious queries and document
extraction attacks (Cohen et al., 2024), which jeop-
ardize both data integrity and user privacy.
To address those limitations, we propose MES-
RAG (Multi-modal, Entity-storage, Secure RAG),
a framework designed to enhance entity-specific
query handling and multi-modal data processing.
MES-RAG introduces a novel entity-centric data
representation, isolating information by entity to
reduce noise and improve retrieval precision. It
also integrates a unified multi-modal approach, sup-
porting text, visuals, and audio, and incorporates
a proactive security strategy, applying protective
measures before data access.
The main contributions of MES-RAG are sum-
marized as below:
1. Entity-Storage Accuracy. With a structured
and isolated entity storage system, MES-RAG
achieves highly accurate and contextually
consistent responses by focusing on entity-
specific data, effectively minimizing noise.
2. Enhanced Security. MES-RAG employs a
front-loaded security strategy with malicious
identification and an out of knowledge detec-
tion, reducing hallucinations and ensuring sys-
tem integrity.
3. Multi-modal Support. MES-RAG allows
diverse data types, ranging from text, images,
audio, and video, ensuring more contextually
arXiv:2503.13563v1  [cs.CL