arXiv:2503.01713v3  [cs.LG]  6 Jun 2025
SAGE: A Framework of Precise Retrieval for RAG
Jintao Zhang
Department of Computer Science
Tsinghua University
zhang-jt24@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
Guoliang Li*
Department of Computer Science
Tsinghua University
liguoliang@tsinghua.edu.cn
Jinyang Su
Department of Computer Science
Tsinghua University
sujinyanslip@gmail.com
Abstract—Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has demon-
strated significant proficiency in conducting question-answering
(QA) tasks within a specified corpus. Nonetheless, numerous
failure instances of RAG in QA still exist. These failures are not
solely attributable to the limitations of Large Language Models
(LLMs); instead, they predominantly arise from the retrieval
of inaccurate information for LLMs due to two limitations: (1)
Current RAG methods segment the corpus without considering
semantics, making it difficult to find relevant context due to
impaired correlation between questions and the segments. (2)
There’s a trade-off between missing essential context with fewer
context retrieved and getting irrelevant context with more context
retrieved. It is hard to make an ideal balance.
In this paper, we introduce a RAG framework, named SAGE,
designed to overcome these limitations. First, to address the issue
of segmentation without considering semantics, we propose to
train a semantic segmentation model. This model is trained to
segment the corpus into semantically complete chunks. Second,
to ensure that only the most relevant chunks are retrieved while
the irrelevant ones are ignored, we design a chunk selection
algorithm to dynamically select chunks based on the decreasing
speed of the relevance score of chunks, leading to a more relevant
selection. Third, to further ensure the precision of the retrieved
chunks, we propose letting LLMs assess whether retrieved chunks
are excessive or lacking and then adjust the amount of context
accordingly. Experimental results show that SAGE outperforms
baselines by 61.25% in the quality of QA on average. Moreover,
by avoiding retrieving noisy context, SAGE lowers the cost of
the tokens consumed in LLM inference and achieves a 49.41%
enhancement in cost efficiency on average. Additionally, our work
offers valuable insights for boosting RAG, contributing to the
development of more effective RAG systems.
I. INTRODUCTION
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a technique that
enhances a generation model’s ability to answer questions
for a given corpus by retrieving information related to the
question. With the rise and advancement of large language
models, RAG has demonstrated remarkable proficiency in QA
tasks across both commercial applications and open-source
communities [11], [28], [41].
Limitations. Typically, a RAG system operates in three dis-
tinct phases. First, the given corpus will be segmented into
many chunks. Second, in response to a specific question, a
retriever identifies and selects the top K most related chunks to
use as context. Third, the question, alongside the context, will
Guoliang Li is the corresponding author. This paper was supported by
National Key R&D Program of China (2023YFB4503600), NSF of China
(61925205, 62232009, 62102215), Huawei, TAL education, and Beijing
National Research Center for Information Science and Technology (BNRist).
A. Ineffective Corpus Segmentaion
B. Noisy Retrieval
C. Missing Retrieval
      "I have a cat."
      "He has bright green eyes."
Chunk 1
Chunk 2
Retrieved
      "I have a cat. He has bright green eyes."
Chunk 1
Chunk 2      "I hope my cat has orange eyes."
"I have a cat. He has bright green eyes."
LLM Response: Orange (with 30% probability); Green (with 70% probability)
Segment
Retrieved
      "Normally, the color of cats’s eyes is blue."
Chunk 1
      "I have a cat. He has bright green eyes."
Chunk 3
      "I saw a small cat with yellow eyes."
Chunk 2
Question: What color of my cat’s eyes?
Correct Answer: Green.
(Noisy Chunk)
(Target Chunk)
(Target Chunk)
LLM Response: Bl