ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of
Heterogeneous Data Sources
Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1
1Key Laboratory of High Confidence Software Technologies, CS, Peking University, Beijing, China
2Theory Lab, Central Research Institute, 2012 Labs, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd, Huawei Research, China
wfl00014@pku.edu.cn,{chenjiazun,zhanyirui}@stu.pku.edu.cn,zsf030826@163.com
{jiangweipeng,zhang.chaorui,harvey.hanwei,baibo8}@huawei.com,gaojun@pku.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant po-
tential in performing question-answering (QA) tasks. Retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) enhances the reliability and precision
of LLMs through the integration of external evidence beyond their
training data. The supporting evidence is retrieved from external
sources, including web pages, databases, and knowledge graphs,
among other structured and unstructured data sources. While ef-
fective in many scenarios, current RAG methods require dedicated
retrieval agents for individual data sources to optimize retrieval
quality. Such an agent-specific strategy presents significant chal-
lenges in low-resource or black-box environments and complicates
operations when evidence is fragmented across sources.
To address the above limitations, we propose ER-RAG, a frame-
work designed to enable RAG systems to integrate information
from multiple heterogeneous data sources. ER-RAG adopts the
generalized Entity-Relationship (ER) model to represent evidence
across diverse physical data forms, inspired by the observation
of restrictive access patterns in the RAG context. The framework
encapsulates different data sources with ER-based unified applica-
tion programming interfaces (APIs), allowing entity retrieval and
relationship querying through standardized 𝐺𝐸𝑇and 𝐽𝑂𝐼𝑁opera-
tions. Moreover, ER-RAG employs a two-stage generation process
for API chain construction: in the first stage, a direct preference
optimization-tuned module identifies optimal sources, and in the
second stage, a dedicated module generates API chains based on the
schema of the selected sources. This unified access pattern enables
ER-RAG to accumulate extensive training samples for module fine-
tuning while facilitating seamless integration across diverse data
sources. A previous version of ER-RAG, tailored exclusively to the
MockAPI and the provided web pages, won first place in all three
tracks of the 2024 KDDCup CRAG Challenge. Experimental results
demonstrate that ER-RAG, utilizing an 8B LLM backbone, achieves
performance comparable to commercial RAG pipelines built on
state-of-the-art LLM backbones. ER-RAG also surpasses other hy-
brid source competitors by 3.1% in LLM score and accelerates the
retrieval process by 5.5X.
1
INTRODUCTION
Large language models (LLMs), typically pre-trained on extensive
data, have led to significant advancements in various natural lan-
guage processing tasks, particularly in question-answering (QA)
systems [5]. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as
∗Equal Contribution. †Corresponding Authors.
Query
Web Page
Knowledge 
Graph
Database
Query
ER Agent
Retrieve 
separately
All Input 
to LLM
Web 
Page
Knowledge 
Graph
Database
Retrieve from different 
sources in a uniform way
Existing
RAGs
ER-RAG
Entity-Relationship (ER) model
Web Agent
KG Agent
SQL Agent
LLM
LLM
Figure 1: Existing RAGs vs. ER-RAG: Traditional RAG creates
separate agents per source, while ER-RAG uses ER modeling
to unify integration via ER API.
an effective approach, requiring minimal to no additional training.
RAG is particularly valuable when the desired knowledge lies out-
side the LLMs’ training corpus [18, 45]. Specifically, RAG employs
a retriever component to search for and extract relevant evidence
from external data sources. The evidence is then integrated into
the LLM’s context window to enhance its generation capabilities.
Real-world RAG