A Visual RAG Pipeline for Few-Shot Fine-Grained Product Classification
Bianca Lamm
Markant Services International GmbH
Bianca.Lamm@de.markant.com
Janis Keuper
IMLA, Offenburg University and
University of Mannheim
keuper@imla.ai
Abstract
Despite the rapid evolution of learning and computer vi-
sion algorithms, Fine-Grained Classification (FGC) still
poses an open problem in many practically relevant appli-
cations. In the retail domain, for example, the identification
of fast changing and visually highly similar products and
their properties are key to automated price-monitoring and
product recommendation.
This paper presents a novel Visual RAG pipeline that com-
bines the Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) approach
and Vision Language Models (VLMs) for few-shot FGC.
This Visual RAG pipeline extracts product and promotion
data in advertisement leaflets from various retailers and si-
multaneously predicts fine-grained product ids along with
price and discount information. Compared to previous ap-
proaches, the key characteristic of the Visual RAG pipeline
is that it allows the prediction of novel products without re-
training, simply by adding a few class samples to the RAG
database.
Comparing several VLM back-ends like GPT-4o [23], GPT-
4o-mini [24], and Gemini 2.0 Flash [10], our approach
achieves 86.8% accuracy on a diverse dataset.
1. Introduction
The task of Fine-Grained Classification (FGC) enables
a detailed analysis and more precise categorization of
items that are highly similar in nature. The differentiation
of items arises in several areas, such as animals, plants,
cars, and retail products [29]. In the retail domain, traded
products are continuously changing, while thousands of
products are sold in a single supermarket. Identical prod-
ucts are identified by the standardized and unique Global
Trade Item Number (GTIN) [2].
Hence, the prediction
of GTINs is defined as a fine-grained classification task.
Products differ in a fine-grained manner, e.g., due to similar
content but different packaging size. The previous methods
used for FGC are mostly based on Convolutional Neural
Networks or Vision Transformers [7], which provide a
reasonable accuracy but have to be retrained very often
in practice in order to keep up with the fast changing
product portfolios.
In recent years, Vision Language
Models (VLMs) have significantly advanced the integration
of visual and textual data, enabling more sophisticated
multi-modal understanding [33]. These models have the
capability for solving complex reasoning tasks, including
image captioning and visual question answering [28, 33].
So far, VLMs have mainly a knowledge about public
available data [33], which typically does not include
detailed information about retail products. The Retrieval
Augmented Generation (RAG) approach shows promising
outcomes by incorporating external knowledge sources [9].
Recently, the emergence of multi-modal inputs for RAG is
an ongoing research topic [1]. The creation of a custom
database which is required for the RAG method offers
the ability to provide the necessary context to VLMs for
specific tasks.
In this paper, we investigate the combination of multi-modal
RAG with VMLs for a few-shot fine-grained classification
of retail products and their properties from advertisement
leaflets.
Our approach allows to add novel products to
the FGC pipeline, simply by adding a few samples to the
RAG database.
This re-training free approach achieves
state-of-the-art accuracies on a multi-modal benchmark.
Our introduced Visual RAG pipeline is a novel approach to
RAG using VLMs. The creation of a context, which is part
of the VLM prompt, is essential for facilitating the VLMs
comprehension of the task. In addition, the investigation of
the RAG approach on visual data from the retail domain
constitutes a novel methodology toward FGC.
2. Related Work
An overview of the topics FGC, image datasets in retail, and
RAG is presented in the Sections 2.1 to 2.3.
2.1. Fine-Gra