Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025
Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Conflicting Evidence
Han Wang
Archiki Prasad
Elias Stengel-Eskin
Mohit Bansal
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
{hwang, archiki, esteng, mbansal}@cs.unc.edu
Abstract
Large language model (LLM) agents are increasingly employing retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) to improve the factuality of their responses.
However, in practice, these systems often need to handle ambiguous user
queries and potentially conflicting information from multiple sources while
also suppressing inaccurate information from noisy or irrelevant docu-
ments. Prior work has generally studied and addressed these challenges in
isolation, considering only one aspect at a time, such as handling ambiguity
or robustness to noise and misinformation. We instead consider multiple
factors simultaneously, proposing (i) RAMDocs (Retrieval with Ambiguity
and Misinformation in Documents), a new dataset that simulates complex
and realistic scenarios for conflicting evidence for a user query, including
ambiguity, misinformation, and noise; and (ii) MADAM-RAG, a multi-agent
approach in which LLM agents debate over the merits of an answer over
multiple rounds, allowing an aggregator to collate responses correspond-
ing to disambiguated entities while discarding misinformation and noise,
thereby handling diverse sources of conflict jointly. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of MADAM-RAG using both closed and open-source models
on AmbigDocs – which requires presenting all valid answers for ambigu-
ous queries – improving over strong RAG baselines by up to 11.40%, and
on FaithEval – which requires suppressing misinformation – where we
improve by up to 15.80% (absolute) with Llama3.3-70B-Instruct. Further-
more, we find that our proposed RAMDocs dataset poses a challenge for
existing RAG baselines (the most performant Llama3.3-70B-Instruct only
yields up to a 32.60 exact match score), as it requires handling conflicting
information due to ambiguity, noise, and misinformation simultaneously.
While MADAM-RAG begins to address these conflicting factors, our analy-
sis indicates that a substantial gap remains, especially when increasing the
level of imbalance in supporting evidence and misinformation.1
1
Introduction
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enables large language models (LLMs) to generate
more accurate and reliable responses by incorporating retrieved external information (Lewis
et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2021), mitigating issues such as hallucination (Zhang
et al., 2023) and outdated parametric knowledge (Kasai et al., 2023). Indeed, recent LLM
interfaces and AI-powered search engines, such as ChatGPT (OpenAI, 2024), Claude (An-
thropic, 2025), Google Search with AI Overviews (Google, 2024b), and Microsoft Bing Chat
(Microsoft, 2024), have integrated retrieval capabilities that enable them to access vast
amounts of information from the internet, allowing them to summarize search results and
provide more accurate and up-to-date answers. This kind of RAG also features promi-
nently in “deep research” techniques that frame search as an agent-driven process in which
a research agent collects and summarizes online sources (Google, 2024a; OpenAI, 2025).
However, a core challenge faced by all of these approaches is that information retrieved
from the internet can be conflicting, noisy, and unreliable – retrieved documents might contain
1Our data and code is publicly available at: https://github.com/HanNight/RAMDocs.
1
arXiv:2504.13079v2  [cs.CL]  12 Aug 2025
Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025
Retrieved Documents
 Document 3  states 
Jordan was born in 
1998. But it 
conflicts with 
Agent 1 and 4 …
 Document 4  does 
not contain this 
information.So, I 
accept Agent 1’s 
response …
…  Document 2 , the 
answer is 1956. But 
Agent 1 is talking about 
a basketball player..
Michael Jeffrey Jordan (born February 17, 1963), also 
known by his initials MJ, is an Ame