1
RAG-Based Fuzzing of Cross-Architecture
Compilers
Rana Elnaggar, Brian Delgado, and Jason M. Fung
Intel Corporation
E-mail: rana.elnaggar@intel.com, brian.delgado@intel.com, and jason.m.fung@intel.com
Abstract—OneAPI is an open standard that supports cross-
architecture software development with minimal effort from
developers. It brings DPC++ and C++ compilers which need
to be thoroughly tested to verify their correctness, relia-
bility, and security. Compilers have numerous code flows
and optimization features. This process requires developers
with deep understanding of the different compiler flows to
craft testcases specific to target paths in the compiler. This
testcase creation is a time-consuming and costly process.
In this paper, we propose a large-language model (LLM)-
based compiler fuzzing tool that integrates the concept of
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). This tool automates
the testcase generation task and relieves experienced com-
piler developers from investing time to craft testcase gener-
ation patterns. We test our proposed approach on the Intel
DPC++/C++ compiler. This compiler compiles SYCL code and
allows developers to offload it to different architectures, e.g.
GPUs and CPUs from different vendors. Using this tool, we
managed to identify 87 SYCL code test cases that lead to
output value mismatch or compiler runtime errors when
compiled using Intel DPC++ and clang++ compilers and run
on different architectures. The testcases and the identified
unexpected behaviors of the compilers under test were ob-
tained within only few hours with no prior background on
the compiler passes under tests. This tool facilitates efficient
compiler fuzzing with reduced developer time requirements
via the dynamic testcase creation capability provided by an
LLM with RAG.
Index Terms—compilers, fuzzing, DPC++, sycl, LLM, RAG
I. INTRODUCTION
The Intel DPC++ compiler enables the same source
code to be compiled to generate binaries of different
vendor architectures. Accomplishing this purpose requires
numerous complicated flows that are implemented across
several development teams. Thus, this compiler needs to
be thoroughly tested to ensure that it does not crash, nor
introduce exploitable bugs in the generated binaries or
differing behavior on other architectures. Compiler fuzzing
has been widely adopted to test different compilers (e.g.,
LLVM, Nvidia NVCC and OpenCL compilers) [1]. Prior
work has relied on three major paradigms for compiler
fuzzing: (1) closed-box fuzzing, which generates random
code snippets based on the target language grammar
and features of the target language; (2) partially-closed
box fuzzing, which utilizes information about test cases
coverage to guide further test generation; and (3) open-
box fuzzing which generates test cases based on inspecting
the source code of the compiler passes. Closed-box and
partially closed box fuzzing techniques suffer from low
compiler code coverage and the inability to target specific
compiler passes. The ability to test a specific compiler
pass is crucial during the compiler development phase.
Thus, when closed-box and partially closed box fuzzing
techniques are applied, multiple bugs remain unrevealed
by fuzzing campaigns that continue to run over years [2].
Open-box fuzzing addresses the limitations in closed and
partially-closed fuzzing, however, it utilizes hand-written
code generation templates and policies to cover language
features related to a specific compiler pass [3]. Thus, this
methodology is highly labor-intensive. It requires experi-
enced compiler developers with extensive knowledge in
compiler features and compiler passes to develop these
templates and generation policies. In addition, a custom
template needs to be implemented for every compiler
pass under test. This severely affects the scalability and
feasibility of open-box fuzzing.
Recently, large language models (LLMs) have proven
their success in code generation. The work in [1] pro-
poses to gen