arXiv:2505.14381v1  [cs.AI]  20 May 2025
SCAN: Semantic Document Layout Analysis for Textual and Visual
Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Yuyang Dong*, Nobuhiro Ueda*, Krisztián Boros, Daiki Ito, Takuya Sera, Masafumi Oyamada
NEC Corporation
{dongyuyang, nobuhiro-ueda, krisztian-boros, ito-daiki, takuya-sera, oyamada}@nec.com
Abstract
With the increasing adoption of Large Lan-
guage Models (LLMs) and Vision-Language
Models (VLMs),
rich document analysis
technologies for applications like Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) and visual RAG
are gaining significant attention. Recent re-
search indicates that using VLMs can achieve
better RAG performance, but processing rich
documents still remains a challenge since a sin-
gle page contains large amounts of information.
In this paper, we present SCAN (SemantiC
Document Layout ANalysis), a novel approach
enhancing both textual and visual Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) systems work-
ing with visually rich documents. It is a VLM-
friendly approach that identifies document com-
ponents with appropriate semantic granularity,
balancing context preservation with processing
efficiency. SCAN uses a coarse-grained seman-
tic approach that divides documents into coher-
ent regions covering continuous components.
We trained the SCAN model by fine-tuning ob-
ject detection models with sophisticated anno-
tation datasets. Our experimental results across
English and Japanese datasets demonstrate that
applying SCAN improves end-to-end textual
RAG performance by up to 9.0% and visual
RAG performance by up to 6.4%, outperform-
ing conventional approaches and even commer-
cial document processing solutions.
1
Introduction
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) (Lewis
et al., 2021; Gao et al., 2024; Fan et al., 2024) tech-
nology enables Large Language Models (LLMs)
to provide more accurate responses to user queries
by retrieving and leveraging relevant knowledge
and documents. These knowledge sources such as
company financial reports, web pages, insurance
manuals, and academic papers often contain com-
plex charts, tables, diagrams, and other non-textual
*Equal contribution
elements, collectively referred to as rich documents.
Enabling RAG to accurately support these rich doc-
uments is an important research problem.
RAG frameworks are generally categorized into
textual RAG and visual RAG. For textual RAG
with rich documents, we need to convert documents
(PDFs, images, etc.) into text, use a text retrieval,
and then generate responses by LLMs. In contrast,
visual RAG can directly process rich documents as
images using multimodal embedding and retrieval,
and then uses Vision Language Models (VLMs) to
generate responses.
1.1
Challenges
The key part for textual RAG with rich documents
is to convert documents into textual formats such
as markdown. Recent research (Zhang et al., 2025;
Fu et al., 2024) indicates that using VLMs for doc-
ument conversion yields better results than tradi-
tional OCR methods. However, it is still a chal-
lenge to have a VLM perform text conversion on
rich document pages, since a whole page can con-
tain a large amount of complicated content, which
can lead to incomplete results and conversion er-
rors.
On the other hand, visual RAG directly retrieves
the images of rich document pages, but faces a
similar challenge when using a VLM to process
visual question answering (VQA) on those rich
document pages. This is because user queries
often target only specific portions of a document
page, meaning that other parts of this page are
noise, leading to low accuracy.
Therefore, the common challenge is to use a
VLM to process (text conversion or VQA) an
entire rich document page containing abundant
information at once. One potential solution is
to further divide a document page into small re-
gions. Traditional document layout analysis tech-
nologies such as DocLayout-YOLO (Zhao et al.,
2024b) can achieve this objective, but they focus
Figure 1: Conventional fine-grained layout ana