CROSS-MODAL RAG: SUB-DIMENSIONAL TEXT-TO-
IMAGE RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION
Mengdan Zhu1, Senhao Cheng2, Guangji Bai1, Yifei Zhang1, Liang Zhao1
1Emory University
2University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
{mengdan.zhu, guangji.bai, yifei.zhang2, liang.zhao}@emory.edu
senhaoc@umich.edu
ABSTRACT
Text-to-image generation increasingly demands access to domain-specific, fine-
grained, and rapidly evolving knowledge that pretrained models cannot fully
capture, necessitating the integration of retrieval methods. Existing Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) methods attempt to address this by retrieving glob-
ally relevant images, but they fail when no single image contains all desired
elements from a complex user query. We propose Cross-modal RAG, a novel
framework that decomposes both queries and images into sub-dimensional compo-
nents, enabling subquery-aware retrieval and generation. Our method introduces
a hybrid retrieval strategy—combining a sub-dimensional sparse retriever with
a dense retriever—to identify a Pareto-optimal set of images, each contributing
complementary aspects of the query. During generation, a multimodal large lan-
guage model is guided to selectively condition on relevant visual features aligned
to specific subqueries, ensuring subquery-aware image synthesis. Extensive experi-
ments on MS-COCO, Flickr30K, WikiArt, CUB, and ImageNet-LT demonstrate
that Cross-modal RAG significantly outperforms existing baselines in the retrieval
and further contributes to generation quality, while maintaining high efficiency.
1
INTRODUCTION
User query: A Cybertruck with a third-generation Labubu
on the roof is parked in front of a Tesla store on Venus ground.
Previous RAG
Ours (Cross-modal RAG)
Retrieved
Images
Top-k Global Retrieval
Multi-objective Joint Retrieval
Generation
query + retrieved images
query + retrieved images
with sub-dimensional
satisfied information
Cybertruck,
Tesla store
Cybertruck,
Tesla store
Cybertruck,
Tesla store
Cybertruck,
Tesla store
Venus
ground
Venus
ground
third-generation 
Labubu
Figure 1: Visualization of retrieval and gen-
eration in Cross-modal RAG (ours) versus
previous RAG.
Text-to-Image Generation (T2I-G) has witnessed
rapid progress in recent years, driven by advances
in diffusion models (Rombach et al., 2022; Saharia
et al., 2022; Nichol et al., 2021) and multimodal large
language models (MLLMs) (OpenAI, 2025; Google,
2025; Jin et al., 2023), enabling the synthesis of in-
creasingly realistic and diverse images from natural
language descriptions. However, in many real-world
applications, domain-specific image generation re-
quires knowledge that is not readily encoded within
pre-trained image generators, especially when such
information is highly long-tailed, fast-updated, and
proprietary. To address this limitation, Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a
promising paradigm by incorporating an external im-
age database to supply factual reference during gener-
ation (Zheng et al., 2025; Zhao et al., 2024). Notable
RAG-based image generation approaches such as Re-
Imagen (Chen et al., 2022), RDM (Blattmann et al.,
2022), and KNN-Diffusion (Sheynin et al., 2022)
integrate retrieved images with diffusion models to
improve output fidelity. However, these existing RAG methods typically rely on off-the-shelf retriev-
ers (e.g., those based on CLIP (Radford et al., 2021)) which compute global image-text similarities
and retrieve whole images based on the full user query. This coarse-grained retrieval strategy often
fails in complex scenarios where the query involves multiple fine-grained entities or attributes (Varma
et al., 2023) – especially when no single image contains all required components in the query. In
1
arXiv:2505.21956v3  [cs.CV]  26 Sep 2025
practice, it is extremely common that single images in the retrieval database only satisfy a subset of
the query. As in Fig. 1, no single image in the retrieval database perfectly covers all four aspects in
the query; instead,