arXiv:2505.10951v2  [cs.LG]  19 May 2025
SubGCache: Accelerating Graph-based RAG with
Subgraph-level KV Cache
Qiuyu Zhu1
Liang Zhang2∗
Qianxiong Xu1
Cheng Long1∗
Jie Zhang1
{qiuyu002, liang012, qianxion001}@e.ntu.edu.sg
{c.long, zhangj}@ntu.edu.sg
1Nanyang Technological University
2Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou)
Abstract
Graph-based retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enables large language mod-
els (LLMs) to incorporate structured knowledge via graph retrieval as contextual
input, enhancing more accurate and context-aware reasoning. We observe that
for different queries, it could retrieve similar subgraphs as prompts, and thus we
propose SubGCache, which aims to reduce inference latency by reusing computa-
tion across queries with similar structural prompts (i.e., subgraphs). Specifically,
SubGCache clusters queries based on subgraph embeddings, constructs a represen-
tative subgraph for each cluster, and pre-computes the key-value (KV) cache of
the representative subgraph. For each query with its retrieved subgraph within a
cluster, it reuses the pre-computed KV cache of the representative subgraph of the
cluster without computing the KV tensors again for saving computation. Experi-
ments on two new datasets across multiple LLM backbones and graph-based RAG
frameworks demonstrate that SubGCache consistently reduces inference latency
with comparable and even improved generation quality, achieving up to 6.68×
reduction in time-to-first-token (TTFT).
1
Introduction
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) [3, 22, 28, 35] enhances large language models (LLMs) [1, 6,
12] by retrieving and integrating external knowledge based on text similarity, enabling more accurate
and contextually enriched generation. Building on its success in language-focused tasks [40, 43],
recent efforts [13, 15, 17] have extended RAG to graph data [19, 24, 37], giving rise to graph-based
RAG [15, 17], which leverages textual graphs as external knowledge sources to help model entity
relations across documents and support complex reasoning over structured knowledge. As illustrated
in Figure 1(a), upon receiving a user query qk and a textual graph G, graph-based RAG first retrieves
the most relevant subgraph from G and constructs a subgraph prompt. This prompt is then combined
with the query to form an augmented input for the LLM to generate the final response.
While proven effective, existing graph-based RAG systems are primarily designed for single-query
settings, where each query is processed independently by the LLM, as shown in Figure 1(a). However,
in many real-world scenarios [4, 5, 7, 42] such as medical question answering over biomedical
knowledge graphs [14], queries are batch-submitted, arrive in large volumes simultaneously, and are
processed jointly, naturally forming in-batch workloads for graph-based RAG. Figure 1(b) illustrates
a typical in-batch scenario, where a group of queries q1, q2, and q3 are submitted and processed
∗Corresponding author.
Preprint. Under review.
Figure 1: Overview of graph-based RAG without and with caching.
together. Each query triggers the retrieval of a relevant subgraph from the external textual graph,
resulting in subgraphs s1, s2, and s3. In practice, these retrieved subgraphs may exhibit significant
overlap. For instance, we can observe that s1 and s2 are identical, while s3 shares large structural
components with them. Despite such redundancy, existing methods process each query in isolation,
repeatedly encoding and reasoning over the overlapping subgraph content, leading to unnecessary
computation. These observations call for a rethinking of graph-based RAG in a new in-batch setting
and raise a natural question: how can we effectively exploit structural redundancy across different
queries to eliminate redundant computation and improve overall system efficiency?
An intuitive answer to this question is to introduce a caching mechanism that stores and reuses
previously computed results fr