Spa-VLM: Stealthy Poisoning Attacks on
RAG-based VLM
Lei Yu1, Yechao Zhang1, Ziqi Zhou1, Yang Wu1, Wei Wan1, Minghui Li1, Shengshan Hu1, Pei Xiaobing1, Jing Wang1
1Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China
{yulei, ycz, zhouziqi, yungwu, wanwei_0303, minghuili, hushengshan, xiaobingp, cswjing}@hust.edu.cn
Abstract—With the rapid development of the Vision-Language
Model (VLM), significant progress has been made in Visual
Question Answering (VQA) tasks. However, existing VLM of-
ten generate inaccurate answers due to a lack of up-to-date
knowledge. To address this issue, recent research has introduced
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques, commonly
used in Large Language Models (LLM), into VLM, incorporating
external multi-modal knowledge to enhance the accuracy and
practicality of VLM systems. Nevertheless, the RAG in LLM
may be susceptible to data poisoning attacks. RAG-based VLM
may also face the threat of this attack. This paper first reveals
the vulnerabilities of the RAG-based large model under poisoning
attack, showing that existing single-modal RAG poisoning attacks
have a 100% failure rate in multi-modal RAG scenarios. To
address this gap, we propose Spa-VLM (Stealthy Poisoning
Attack on RAG-based VLM), a new paradigm for poisoning
attacks on large models. We carefully craft malicious multi-modal
knowledge entries, including adversarial images and misleading
text, which are then injected into the RAG’s knowledge base.
When users access the VLM service, the system may generate
misleading outputs. We evaluate Spa-VLM on two Wikipedia
datasets and across two different RAGs. Results demonstrate that
our method achieves highly stealthy poisoning, with the attack
success rate exceeding 0.8 after injecting just 5 malicious entries
into knowledge bases with 100K and 2M entries, outperforming
state-of-the-art poisoning attacks designed for RAG-based LLMs.
Additionally, we evaluated several defense mechanisms, all of
which ultimately proved ineffective against Spa-VLM, underscor-
ing the effectiveness and robustness of our attack.
Index
Terms—Vision-Language
Model
(VLM),
Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG), Data Poisoning Attack, Knowl-
edge Base Security.
I. INTRODUCTION
With the advancement of VLM, VQA technology has made
significant progress, enabling machines to understand and
answer questions. However, these VLM lack up-to-date knowl-
edge since they are pre-trained on past data and often exhibit
hallucination behavior [1], generating inaccurate answers. In
specific domains such as politics, history, culture, healthcare
[2], [3], law [4], [5], and scientific research [6]–[8], these
limitations pose significant challenges for practical applica-
tions. Consequently, recent studies in VQA tend to incorporate
external, up-to-date multi-modal knowledge databases, such as
political historical facts, detailed object attributes, or specific
contextual information not apparent in visual content. Some
researchers [9] have developed RAG-based VLM systems to
enhance the performance by retrieving external knowledge
databases. Such methods not only improve the accuracy of
Input
Retrieve
Knowledge Base
...
Qp:
Qt :  Is it legal to kill and eat this animal?
Retrieved Topk wiki 
sections
Reranked 
sections
Context: ...Eating chicken is not against 
the law...
Question: Is it legal to kill and eat this 
animal? 
Please answer the question based on the 
context.
Answer: Yes, chicken is a common food , 
you can eat it.
Output
Vision 
Retriever
Text 
Reranker
User
Input
LLM
Poisonous Picture
Poisonous 
Text
①
②
③
④
Fig. 1: Workflow of RAG-based VLM.
VLM on complex background and detail-oriented questions
but also maintain higher practicality in dynamically changing
fields.
In a RAG-based VLM system [9], the interaction pro-
cess between users and service providers consists of four
main components: a knowledge database, a visual retriever,
a reranker, and a LLM, as shown in Figure 1. Users provide
images and questions