KG2QA: KNOWLEDGE GRAPH-ENHANCED RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION
FOR COMMUNICATION STANDARDS QUESTION ANSWERING
Zhongze Luo1, Weixuan Wan2, Tianya Zhang1, Dan Wang2, Xiaoying Tang1∗
1School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China
2School of Microelectronics, Xi’an Jiaotong University, China
ABSTRACT
The rapid evolution of communication technologies has led
to an explosion of standards, rendering traditional expert-
dependent consultation methods inefficient and slow.
To
address this challenge, we propose KG2QA, a question an-
swering (QA) framework for communication standards that
integrates fine-tuned large language models (LLMs) with
a domain-specific knowledge graph (KG) via a retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) pipeline. We construct a high-
quality dataset of 6,587 QA pairs from ITU-T recommen-
dations and fine-tune Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct, achieving sig-
nificant performance gains: BLEU-4 increases from 18.86
to 66.90, outperforming both the base model and Llama-3-
8B-Instruct. A structured KG containing 13,906 entities and
13,524 relations is built using LLM-assisted triple extraction
based on a custom ontology. In our KG-RAG pipeline, the
fine-tuned LLMs first retrieves relevant knowledge from KG,
enabling more accurate and factually grounded responses.
Evaluated by DeepSeek-V3 as a judge, the KG-enhanced
system improves performance across five dimensions, with
an average score increase of 2.26%, demonstrating superior
factual accuracy and relevance. Integrated with Web platform
and API, KG2QA delivers an efficient and interactive user
experience. Our code and data have been open-sourced 1.
Index Terms— Large Language Models, Domain-Specific
Knowledge Graph, Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Com-
munication Standards Question Answering
1. INTRODUCTION
The rapid advancement of technology in the communication
sector has led to an exponential increase in communication
standards [1]. Traditionally, consulting these standards re-
quires significant expertise and manual intervention, often in-
volving extensive periods for information retrieval and inter-
pretation. Such conventional methods are inefficient and un-
able to keep pace with rapid technological developments, ne-
cessitating smarter, more automated approaches for consult-
ing and knowledge management [2].
∗Corresponding author: Xiaoying Tang.
1https://github.com/luozhongze/KG2QA
Recent developments in artificial intelligence, particularly
large language models (LLMs), have demonstrated remark-
able capabilities in understanding and generating human-like
text across general domains [3]. However, their performance
in specialized fields, like communication standards, remains
limited due to the sparse representation of specialized ter-
minologies and domain-specific knowledge in pretraining
datasets [4,5]. To address this limitation, fine-tuning method-
ologies such as Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) have been
employed, significantly enhancing the semantic comprehen-
sion and contextual accuracy of LLMs in niche areas [6–8].
Complementing LLMs, knowledge graph (KG) offers
a structured approach to represent complex, interconnected
domain-specific knowledge [9–11]. Particularly in narrowly
defined domains, such as communication standards, domain-
specific KG facilitates efficient and precise information re-
trieval [12–14]. By constructing a carefully designed ontol-
ogy structure and leveraging LLMs for entity and relationship
extraction, high-accuracy KG can be established, markedly
improving retrieval performance [15–21].
We propose an integration KG2QA framework, which
combines domain-specific KG and fine-tuned LLMs using
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) methodologies, and
we apply it to the field of communication standards question
answering (QA). Our approach enhances intelligent consult-
ing services by achieving precise and swift query responses,
enriched by structured domain-specific knowledge. Experi-
mental results demonstra