arXiv:2506.04390v1  [cs.CR]  4 Jun 2025
THROUGH THE STEALTH LENS: RETHINKING
ATTACKS AND DEFENSES IN RAG
Sarthak Choudhary1
Nils Palumbo1
Ashish Hooda1
Krishnamurthy Dj Dvijotham2
Somesh Jha1
1University of Wisconsin-Madison
2ServiceNow Research
June 12, 2025
ABSTRACT
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems are vulnerable to attacks that inject
poisoned passages into the retrieved set, even at low corruption rates. We show
that existing attacks are not designed to be stealthy, allowing reliable detection and
mitigation. We formalize stealth using a distinguishability-based security game.
If a few poisoned passages are designed to control the response, they must dif-
ferentiate themselves from benign ones, inherently compromising stealth. This
motivates the need for attackers to rigorously analyze intermediate signals involved
in generation—such as attention patterns or next-token probability distributions—to
avoid easily detectable traces of manipulation. Leveraging attention patterns, we
propose a passage-level score—the Normalized Passage Attention Score—used by
our Attention-Variance Filter algorithm to identify and filter potentially poisoned
passages. This method mitigates existing attacks, improving accuracy by up to
∼20% over baseline defenses. To probe the limits of attention-based defenses, we
craft stealthier adaptive attacks that obscure such traces, achieving up to 35% attack
success rate, and highlight the challenges in improving stealth1.
1
Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized various applications with their remarkable
generative abilities. However, their reliance on internal knowledge can lead to inaccuracies due to
outdated information or hallucinations [1, 2, 3]. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [4, 5]
has emerged as a leading technique to address these limitations by integrating LLMs with external
(non-parametric) knowledge retrieved from databases [6, 7]. It retrieves a set of relevant passages
from a knowledge database, denoted as retrieved set, and incorporates them into the model’s input.
1Our implementation is available at https://github.com/sarthak-choudhary/Stealthy_Attacks_
Against_RAG.
This powerful approach underpins critical real-world systems, including Google Search with AI
overviews [8], WikiChat [9], Bing Search [10], Perplexity AI [11], and LLM agents [12, 13, 14, 15].
The reliance of RAG systems on the retrieved set, however, introduces a significant new security
vulnerability: the knowledge database becomes an additional attack surface. Malicious actors can
inject harmful content—for example, by manipulating Wikipedia pages, spreading fake news on
social media, or hosting malicious websites— to corrupt the information retrieved by the RAG
system [16]. Consequently, the retrieval of malicious passages by a RAG system, followed by
their incorporation into response generation, constitutes a retrieval corruption attack [17]. Recent
instances, such as the PoisonedRAG attack [18], demonstrate easily exploitable vulnerabilities: the
attacker simply prompts GPT-4 to create the malicious context and inject it into the retrieved set,
successfully manipulating the answer by corrupting only a small fraction of the retrieved set (e.g.,
one or two out of ten) [19, 18, 17].
Although existing attacks on RAG systems often achieve high success with low corruption rates,
they are typically not designed with stealth in mind, leaving them susceptible to detection and miti-
gation. Ideally, a robust aggregation mechanism within the RAG system can identify inconsistencies
between the model’s output and the dominant (benign) signal in the retrieved set. A significant di-
vergence suggests undue influence from a small, potentially malicious subset of passages. Crucially,
to override the benign context, adversarial passages must disproportionately influence the model’s
response, which may necessitate detectable differences from benign passages—leaving behind a
malicious trace. The pr