arXiv:2506.14084v1  [cs.AI]  17 Jun 2025
Lightweight Relevance Grader in RAG
Taehee Jeong
San Jose State University
taehee.jeong@sjsu.edu
Abstract—Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) addresses
limitations of large language models (LLMs) by leveraging
a vector database to provide more accurate and up-to-date
information. When a user submits a query, RAG executes a
vector search to find relevant documents, which are then used to
generate a response. However, ensuring the relevance of retrieved
documents with a query would be a big challenge. To address this,
a secondary model, known as a relevant grader, can be served to
verify its relevance. To reduce computational requirements of a
relevant grader, a lightweight small language model is preferred.
In this work, we finetuned llama-3.2-1b as a relevant grader and
achieved a significant increase in precision from 0.1301 to 0.7750.
Its precision is comparable to that of llama-3.1-70b. Our code
is available at https://github.com/taeheej/Lightweight-Relevance-
Grader-in-RAG.
Index Terms—Retrieval-augmented generation, Large lan-
guage models, Relevance grader, Fine-tuning, Vector search,
Vector database
I. INTRODUCTION
Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved exceptional
capabilities in various Natural Language Processing (NLP)
tasks [1]–[3], demonstrating their ability to absorb and retain
vast amounts of knowledge. When responding to specific
queries, LLMs often provide informative answers, leveraging
the extensive range of information they acquired during their
training. However, while their capabilities are impressive,
LLMs still have several limitations that hinder their overall
applications.
A major limitation of LLMs is the rapid growth in the num-
ber of parameters required to achieve extensive capabilities.
As the training dataset expands, the model needs to capture
increasingly complex patterns, which in turn demands a sub-
stantial increase in parameters. This exponential growth not
only adds complexity to the model but also creates significant
deployment challenges, making it difficult to implement the
model in real-world applications.
Another limitation of LLMs is their inability to incorporate
time-sensitive or non-public information. This limitation arises
from the fact that LLMs are trained on static datasets that
represent a snapshot of the internet at a particular point in
time. As a result, these models often lack access to the
recently developed or updated information. This can lead to
a critical issue: LLMs may generate ”hallucinations,” where
they produce responses that are not grounded in actual or
2025 The 8th International Conference on Information and Computer
Technologies (ICICT), IEEE Copyright 2025
current information. This problem is particularly alarming in
applications where accuracy and reliability are crucial, as it
can erode trust in the model’s outputs.
A novel approach has recently emerged to tackle these
limitations: Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [4], [5].
The RAG enhances its capabilities by integrating LLMs with
external knowledge retrieval. This integration allows the RAG
to access and incorporate not only publicly available infor-
mation but also time-sensitive data or information that is not
publicly accessible, thereby expanding its knowledge base.
When a query is given, RAG system uses a retriever to
search an external knowledge database and retrieve the most
relevant documents related to the query. Next, these documents
are combined with the original query to create a prompt for
a language model. The language model then generates its
output based on the information from the retrieved documents,
resulting in a comprehensive response to the query. The work
flow of the RAG system is illustrated in Fig. 1.
Fig. 1: RAG system
The RAG system differs from generative-only models in
its ability to utilize time-sensitive information or non-public
documents, such as internal company documents, to reduce
the risk of hallucinations. A key co