REIS: A High-Performance and Energy-Efficient Retrieval System
with In-Storage Processing
Kangqi Chen1
Andreas Kosmas Kakolyris1
Rakesh Nadig1
Manos Frouzakis1
Nika Mansouri Ghiasi1
Yu Liang1
Haiyu Mao1,2
Jisung Park3
Mohammad Sadrosadati1
Onur Mutlu1
ETH Zürich1
King’s College London2
POSTECH3
Large Language Models (LLMs) face an inherent challenge:
their knowledge is confined to the data that they have been
trained on. This limitation, combined with the significant cost
of retraining renders them incapable of providing up-to-date
responses. To overcome these issues, Retrieval-Augmented Gener-
ation (RAG) complements the static training-derived knowledge
of LLMs with an external knowledge repository. RAG consists of
three stages: (i) indexing, which creates a database that facili-
tates similarity search on text embeddings, (ii) retrieval, which,
given a user query, searches and retrieves relevant data from the
database and (iii) generation, which uses the user query and the
retrieved data to generate a response.
The retrieval stage of RAG in particular becomes a significant
performance bottleneck in inference pipelines. In this stage, (i)
a given user query is mapped to an embedding vector and (ii)
an Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search (ANNS) algorithm
searches for the most semantically similar embedding vectors in
the database to identify relevant items. Due to the large database
sizes, ANNS incurs significant data movement overheads between
the host and the storage system. To alleviate these overheads,
prior works propose In-Storage Processing (ISP) techniques that
accelerate ANNS workloads by performing computations inside
the storage system. However, existing works that leverage ISP for
ANNS (i) employ algorithms that are not tailored to ISP systems,
(ii) do not accelerate data retrieval operations for data selected
by ANNS, and (iii) introduce significant hardware modifications
to the storage system, limiting performance and hindering their
adoption.
We propose REIS, the first Retrieval system tailored for RAG
with In-Storage processing that addresses the limitations of ex-
isting implementations with three key mechanisms. First, REIS
employs a database layout that links database embedding vec-
tors to their associated documents, enabling efficient retrieval.
Second, it enables efficient ANNS by introducing an ISP-tailored
algorithm and data placement technique that: (i) distributes
embeddings across all planes of the storage system to exploit par-
allelism, and (ii) employs a lightweight Flash Translation Layer
(FTL) to improve performance. Third, REIS leverages an ANNS
engine that uses the existing computational resources inside the
storage system, without requiring hardware modifications. The
three key mechanisms form a cohesive framework that largely
enhances both the performance and energy efficiency of RAG
pipelines. Compared to a high-end server-grade system, REIS im-
proves the performance (energy efficiency) of the retrieval stage
by an average of 13× (55×). REIS offers improved performance
against existing ISP-based ANNS accelerators, without introduc-
ing any hardware modifications, enabling easier adoption for
RAG pipelines.
1. Introduction
The rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs) [72,
181, 272, 122, 73, 331] during the past decade has led to
their widespread adoption, as witnessed by the popularity
of chatbots such as ChatGPT [222], Gemini [271, 272] and
DeepSeek [181]. Despite this progress, modern LLMs remain
limited in generating responses only from data present in
their training sets. The significant cost and hardware require-
ments [72, 181, 285] of training further compound this problem,
making frequent retraining on new data impractical, thus lim-
iting the effectiveness of LLMs in especially domain-specific
and real-time scenarios [119, 120, 200].
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [326, 233, 124, 301,
169, 166, 83, 111, 82, 123, 76, 145, 313, 324, 40, 45, 24, 232, 253]
presents a co