A Query-Aware Multi-Path Knowledge Graph Fusion Approach for
Enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Generation in Large Language
Models
Qikai Weia, Huansheng Ninga,∗, Chunlong Hana and Jianguo Dingb
aSchool of Computer and Communication Engineering, University of Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing, China
bBlekinge Institute of Technology, Karlskrona, Sweden
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Retrieval Augmented Generation
Query-Aware Attention
Reward Model
Knowledge Graph Subgraph Fusion
Large Language Models
Retrieval
A B S T R A C T
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has gradually emerged as a promising paradigm for enhanc-
ing the accuracy and factual consistency of content generated by large language models (LLMs).
However, existing RAG studies primarily focus on retrieving isolated segments using similarity-
based matching methods, while overlooking the intrinsic connections between them. This limitation
hampers performance in RAG tasks. To address this, we propose QMKGF, a Query-Aware Multi-
Path Knowledge Graph Fusion Approach for Enhancing Retrieval Augmented Generation. First,
we design prompt templates and employ general-purpose LLMs to extract entities and relations,
thereby generating a knowledge graph (KG) efficiently. Based on the constructed KG, we introduce a
multi-path subgraph construction strategy that incorporates one-hop relations, multi-hop relations,
and importance-based relations, aiming to improve the semantic relevance between the retrieved
documents and the user query. Subsequently, we designed a query-aware attention reward model
that scores subgraph triples based on their semantic relevance to the query. Then, we select the
highest score subgraph and enrich subgraph with additional triples from other subgraphs that are
highly semantically relevant to the query. Finally, the entities, relations, and triples within the updated
subgraph are utilised to expand the original query, thereby enhancing its semantic representation and
improving the quality of LLMs’ generation. We evaluate QMKGF on the SQuAD, IIRC, Culture,
HotpotQA, and MuSiQue datasets. On the HotpotQA dataset, our method achieves a ROUGE-1 score
of 64.98%, surpassing the BGE-Rerank approach by 9.72 percentage points (from 55.26% to 64.98%).
Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the QMKGF approach.
1. Introduction
In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have
demonstrated remarkable performance in the field of Natural
Language Processing (NLP), finding widespread application
across various artificial intelligence tasks [16, 30, 42, 35].
Despite their increasingly powerful generative capabilities,
LLMs often produce outputs that appear plausible but are
factually incorrect—a phenomenon commonly referred to as
hallucination [7, 39].
To address this issue, Retrieval-Augmented Generation
(RAG) has emerged as an effective solution [8, 40]. By
incorporating external knowledge sources to provide con-
textual support for generation, RAG significantly mitigates
the hallucination phenomenon commonly observed in LLMs
and substantially enhances the factual accuracy and relia-
bility of the generated content [37]. Owing to its ability
to improve factual consistency, RAG has been widely ap-
plied in various domains such as law [3], medical [31], and
tourism [29]. Fig. 1 illustrates a comparison between RAG-
based approaches and the standard LLM-only paradigm.
The green line indicates the LLM-only setting, where the
model generates answers directly from the query without
∗Corresponding author
weiqikai@xs.ustb.edu.cn (Q. Wei); ninghuansheng@ustb.edu.cn (H.
Ning); hanchunlong@xs.ustb.edu.cn (C. Han); jianguo.ding@bth.se (J.
Ding)
ORCID(s): 0000-0002-1048-3814 (Q. Wei); 0000-0001-6413-193X (H.
Ning); 0000-0003-1602-1597 (C. Han); 0000-0002-8927-0968 (J. Ding)
LLM-only
RAG-based
Documents
chunks
Response
Query
Figure 1: Comparison between LLM-only and RAG-based
paradigm.
any external retrieval. The red line represents the RAG-