Efficacy of AI RAG Tools for Complex Information Extraction 
and Data Annotation Tasks: A Case Study Using Banks’ Public 
Disclosures1 
Nicholas Botti2, Flora Haberkorn, Charlotte Hoopes, Shaun Khan3 
Abstract 
We utilize a within-subjects design with randomized task assignments to understand the 
effectiveness of using an AI retrieval augmented generation (RAG) tool to assist analysts with an 
information extraction and data annotation task. We replicate an existing, challenging real-world 
annotation task with complex multi-part criteria on a set of thousands of pages of public 
disclosure documents from global systemically important banks (GSIBs) with heterogeneous and 
incomplete information content. We test two treatment conditions. First, a “naive” AI use 
condition in which annotators use only the tool and must accept the first answer they are given. 
And second, an “interactive” AI treatment condition where annotators use the tool interactively, 
and use their judgement to follow-up with additional information if necessary. Compared to the 
human-only baseline, the use of the AI tool accelerated task execution by up to a factor of 10 and 
enhanced task accuracy, particularly in the interactive condition. We find that when extrapolated 
to the full task, these methods could save up to 268 hours compared to the human-only approach. 
Additionally, our findings suggest that annotator skill, not just with the subject matter domain, but 
also with AI tools, is a factor in both the accuracy and speed of task performance.  
 
Keywords: Artificial Intelligence (AI), Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), Machine 
Learning, Data Extraction, Bank Data Analysis, Financial Disclosure, AI-Human Interaction, 
Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) 
JEL Codes: C45, G21, O33, M41, D83, C55, G28 
 
3 Nicholas Botti, Flora Haberkorn, and Charlotte Hoopes are affiliated with the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System. Shaun Khan is affiliated with the US Department of Treasury but his work was performed while 
affiliated with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
2 Corresponding Author Email: nicholas.botti@frb.gov 
1  The views expressed in this paper are solely those of the authors, and do not represent the views of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the US Department of the Treasury. ​
We thank Jonathan Tong for research assistance. We thank Daniel Beltran for his mentorship and comments, Ricardo 
Correa for comments and suggestions. We also thank our discussant Roeland Beerten, and participants at the 4th 
BIS-IFC Workshop on Data Science in Central Banking for feedback and comments. All errors are our own.  
We thank the authors of the original study referenced for generously allowing us to use their dataset and for their 
assistance with various aspects of this analysis: Cord Barnes, Daniel Beltran, Kellen Lynch, Monica Sanz, and Pinar 
Uysal. 
1.​ Introduction 
Recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) tools for document analysis and information 
extraction, particularly the development of large language models (LLMs) and retrieval 
augmented generation systems (RAG) have generated intense interest in social science research 
and among policy analysis. The IMF’s 2024 Annual Report cited how AI will transform the work 
of many industries (IMF 2024). Therefore, it is imperative for us to understand both when and 
how to use these tools effectively and safely, especially in the realm of economics, finance, and 
policy analysis. 
One particular use case that has drawn considerable interest in policy analysis, is the 
ability to turn unstructured comprehensive and widely available text into structured datasets 
suitable for use for further assessment. Using unstructured text data to create a clean structured 
dataset suitable for financial and economic analysis has historically been a time-consuming 
process that starts with manual data collection. While some data vendors already use