Data Auctions for Retrieval Augmented Generation
Minbiao Han1*, Seyed A. Esmaeili1*, Michael Albert2 , Haifeng Xu1
1 University of Chicago
2 University of Virginia
Abstract
We study the problem of data selling for Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) tasks in Generative
AI applications. We model each buyer’s valuation of a dataset with a natural coverage-based valuation
function that increases with the inclusion of more relevant data points that would enhance responses to
anticipated queries. Motivated by issues such as data control and prior-free revenue maximization, we
focus on the scenario where each data point can be allocated to only one buyer. We show that the problem
of welfare maximization in this setting is NP-hard even with two bidders, but design a polynomial-time
(1 −1/e) approximation algorithm for any number of bidders. Unfortunately, however, this efficient
allocation algorithm fails to be incentive compatible. The crux of our approach is a carefully tailored
post-processing step called data burning which retains the (1 −1/e) approximation factor but achieves
incentive compatibility. Our thorough experiments on synthetic and real-world image and text datasets
demonstrate the practical effectiveness of our algorithm compared to popular baseline algorithms for
combinatorial auctions.
1
Introduction
Generative AI (GenAI) has shown impressive performance in various domains such as text, code, image, and
even video generation [28, 29, 53, 1, 34]. The impressive performance of GenAI has had profound impacts
on numerous applications. Perhaps the most important and salient application of GenAI is its usage as a
replacement for search engines and question-answer websites. In particular, it has become widespread to
look up information using GenAI platforms such as ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Claude; traditional websites
such as the Google and Bing have also developed similar “AI Overview” functionality. The answers provided
by GenAI models are rich, detailed, and summarize information across various webpages and sources.
Although GenAI models have shown promise as a tool for acquiring knowledge, they are known to
hallucinate, i.e., output invalid or even fully nonfactual answers [31]. Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG) [40, 5, 22] has emerged as a very useful method that not only gives the user confidence in the GenAI
answer but also enables the user to look up the exact source of a specific piece of information in the answer.
In particular, by using RAG the output of the GenAI includes references to the sources of the information.
Another important usage of RAG is to incorporate information into a response that was not present during
training. For example, common GenAI chatbots can converse intelligently about current events even though
the events occurred after the training data cutoff date. This is due to news articles being incorporated into
the context window through RAG. Many news organizations (The Associated Press, News Corp, and The
Financial Times to give a few examples) have entered into licensing agreements with GenAI providers to
allow for their news articles to be used in this way.
*These authors contributed equally to this work.
1
arXiv:2508.16007v2  [cs.GT]  28 Oct 2025
In this paper, we consider a setting where a collection of GenAI platforms are interested in buying
information from a seller who possesses a large database of information for RAG based usage. These GenAI
platforms anticipate queries about certain topics, are interested in augmenting their generated answers with
the information from the database coupled with references. The seller looks to auctions off the database
and can allocate a dataset from the database (i.e., a subset of data points) to each buyer and assign a price
for each dataset. We focus on the more challenging setting where the seller does exclusive allocation (i.e.,
each data point can be allocated to at most one buyer). Such exclusive data selling could arise from multiple
re