Multi-Value-Product Retrieval-Augmented Generation
for Industrial Product Attribute Value Identification
Huike Zou1, Haiyang Yang1, Yindu Su2, Liyu Chen1,
Chengbao Lian1, Qingheng Zhang1 Shuguang Han1,†, Jufeng Chen1
1Xianyu of Alibaba
2Xiaohongshu Inc.
{zouhuike.zhk,qingheng.zqh,shuguang.sh}@alibaba-inc.com
Abstract
Identifying attribute values from product pro-
files is a key task for improving product search,
recommendation, and business analytics on e-
commerce platforms, which we called Product
Attribute Value Identification (PAVI) . However,
existing PAVI methods face critical challenges,
such as cascading errors, inability to handle out-
of-distribution (OOD) attribute values, and lack
of generalization capability. To address these
limitations, we introduce Multi-Value-Product
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (MVP-RAG),
combining the strengths of retrieval, generation,
and classification paradigms. MVP-RAG de-
fines PAVI as a retrieval-generation task, where
the product title description serves as the query,
and products and attribute values act as the cor-
pus. It first retrieves similar products of the
same category and candidate attribute values,
and then generates the standardized attribute
values. The key advantages of this work are: (1)
the proposal of a multi-level retrieval scheme,
with products and attribute values as distinct
hierarchical levels in PAVI domain (2) attribute
value generation of large language model to
significantly alleviate the OOD problem and
(3) its successful deployment in a real-world in-
dustrial environment. Extensive experimental
results demonstrate that MVP-RAG performs
better than the state-of-the-art baselines.
1
Introduction
Product attribute values are fundamental compo-
nents in the e-commerce sector, serving as crit-
ical elements within the online retail ecosystem.
From the perspective of a seller’s business strategy,
meticulously curated product attribute values can
significantly enhance traffic acquisition, increase
product visibility, and ultimately drive transaction
conversion. From the operational standpoint of
e-commerce platforms, these attribute values pro-
vide fundamental data support for core function-
†Corresponding author.
Item
Retrieve Item
LLM
attribute-
value pairs
Item-c
Retrieve Same
Category Item
Retrieve Value
LLM
Multi-Value
-Product
RAG
(a) Previous Studies
(b) Our Framework
attribute-
value pairs
Figure 1: (a) shows the previous LLM and RAG meth-
ods, which either retrieve products from the product
pool or directly generate attribute values. In contrast,
(b) depicts our approach, which retrieves from both
product and attribute value perspectives. This not only
reduces the hallucination error caused by retrieving ir-
relevant products, but also ensures the stability of the
results. Compared to previous studies, the core of our
approach lies in the change in Retrieval.
alities, such as optimizing product display algo-
rithms(Chen et al., 2024), constructing personal-
ized recommendation systems(Truong et al., 2022),
and enabling intelligent question-answering ser-
vices(Gao et al., 2019), which are essential for im-
proving user experience(Vashishth et al., 2024) and
platform operational efficiency.
Professional sellers are usually able to stan-
dardize the selection of product attribute values.
However, on second-hand trading platforms like
Xianyu*, individual sellers often struggle to pro-
vide complete and accurate product attributes,
which severely impacts the circulation efficiency
of products.
Therefore, achieving automated
and precise product attribute value identification
(PAVI)(Shinzato et al., 2023) is of great signifi-
cance. Currently, PAVI models can be broadly
*Xianyu is a C2C e-commerce platform in Alibaba
arXiv:2509.23874v1  [cs.IR]  28 Sep 2025
Serie
Size
Brand
attributes
Channel
Dior
LV
values
22Bag
19Bag
WOC
L
M
S
Bag
Shoe
Shirt
categories
Figure 2: An illustration of a portion of the attribute
taxonomy. Each category, such as Bag, is linked