Towards an AI-based knowledge assistant for goat farmers
based on Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Nana Han, Dong Liu*, Tomas Norton*
Department of Biosystems, Division M3-BIORES: Measure, Model & Manage Bioresponses,
Catholic University of Leuven, Kasteelpark Arenberg 30, 3001 Heverlee, Belgium
Email: tomas.norton@kuleuven.be (T. Norton), dong.liu@kuleuven.be (Dong Liu)
Phone: +3216377531
Abstract
Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly being recognised as valuable
knowledge communication tools in many industries. However, their application in
livestock farming remains limited, being constrained by several factors not least the
availability, diversity and complexity of knowledge sources. This study introduces an
intelligent knowledge assistant system designed to support health management in
farmed goats. Leveraging the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), two structured
knowledge processing methods, table textualization and decision-tree textualization,
were proposed to enhance large language models’ (LLMs) understanding of
heterogeneous data formats. Based on these methods, a domain-specific goat farming
knowledge base was established to improve LLM’s capacity for cross-scenario
generalization. The knowledge base spans five key domains: Disease Prevention and
Treatment, Nutrition Management, Rearing Management, Goat Milk Management,
and Basic Farming Knowledge. Additionally, an online search module is integrated to
enable real-time retrieval of up-to-date information. To evaluate system performance,
six ablation experiments were conducted to examine the contribution of each
component. The results demonstrated that heterogeneous knowledge fusion method
achieved the best results, with mean accuracies of 87.90% on the validation set and
84.22% on the test set. Across the text-based, table-based, decision-tree based Q&A
tasks, accuracy consistently exceeded 85%, validating the effectiveness of structured
knowledge fusion within a modular design. Error analysis identified omission as the
predominant error category, highlighting opportunities to further improve retrieval
coverage and context integration.
In conclusion, the results highlight the robustness
and reliability of the proposed system for practical applications in goat farming.
Keywords: Large language models; Retrieval-augmented generation; Goat farming;
Health management; Decision support system;
1. Introduction
Goats production plays an important role in global agricultural systems, particularly in
resource-constrained rural areas where they provide stable income, food security, and
livelihood support for smallholders (Navarrete-Molina et al., 2024; Wodajo et al.,
2020). According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the global goat
population exceeded 1.1 billion in 2022, including more than 200 million dairy goats.
These dairy goats collectively produce an estimated 20.7 million tonnes of milk
annually, representing approximately 2% of total global livestock-derived dairy
production (Akshit et al., 2024; Meza-Herrera et al., 2024). Beyond their economic
value, goats are increasingly recognized for their ecological adaptability and
contributions to sustainable agriculture (Villarreal-Ornelas et al., 2022). On one hand,
their ability to efficiently utilize marginal lands due to them being efficient and
resilient grazers in arid and nutrient-poor environments (Estevez-Moreno et al., 2019).
On the other hand, goat manure, which is rich in nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium,
is excreted at a rate of 0.5 to 1.2 kg per adult goat per day (Ogejo et al., 2010; Osuhor
et al., 2002). Its fertilizing efficiency is comparable to synthetic fertilizers, providing a
natural input for nutrient cycling and regenerative farming (Gichangi et al., 2010).
This multifunctional value reinforces the strategic role of goats in developing
agricultural ecosystems, and stimulates the development of Precision Livestock
Farming (PLF) applications in goat farming contexts (Deepika