Concise and Sufficient Sub-Sentence Citations for Retrieval-Augmented
Generation
Guo Chen1,2, Qiuyuan Li1,2, Qiuxian Li1,2, Hongliang Dai1,2*, Xiang Chen3, Piji Li1,2
1College of Artificial Intelligence, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing, China
2The Key Laboratory of Brain-Machine Intelligence Technology, Ministry of Education, Nanjing, China.
3MIIT Key Laboratory of Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, College of Computer Science and Technology,
Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing, China
{162110125, lqy123, 162350227, hongldai,xiang chen, pjli}@nuaa.edu.cn
Abstract
In retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) question answer-
ing systems, generating citations for large language model
(LLM) outputs enhances verifiability and helps users iden-
tify potential hallucinations. However, we observe two prob-
lems in the citations produced by existing attribution meth-
ods. First, the citations are typically provided at the sentence
or even paragraph level. Long sentences or paragraphs may
include a substantial amount of irrelevant content. Second,
sentence-level citations may omit information that is essential
for verifying the output, forcing users to read the surrounding
context. In this paper, we propose generating sub-sentence
citations that are both concise and sufficient, thereby reduc-
ing the effort required by users to confirm the correctness of
the generated output. To this end, we first develop annota-
tion guidelines for such citations and construct a correspond-
ing dataset. Then, we propose an attribution framework for
generating citations that adhere to our standards. This frame-
work leverages LLMs to automatically generate fine-tuning
data for our task and employs a credit model to filter out
low-quality examples. Our experiments on the constructed
dataset demonstrate that the propose approach can generate
high-quality and more readable citations.
Introduction
Despite the rapid advancements and widespread adoption
of large language models (LLMs) in recent years, halluci-
nation continues to be a major challenge (Azamfirei, Kud-
chadkar, and Fackler 2023; Ye et al. 2023). Although various
techniques have been proposed for detecting and mitigating
hallucinations, fully eliminating them from LLM generated
content remains unachievable. As a result, enabling users to
efficiently verify the correctness of model outputs has be-
come a critical concern in the deployment of LLM-based
applications.
In retrieval augmented generation (RAG) (Lewis et al.
2020), which supplements LLMs with relevant external con-
text to improve response accuracy, the retrieved content nat-
urally serves as a source for verifying truthfulness (Gao et al.
2023; Shen et al. 2025). However, since the retrieved con-
text can be lengthy, it is often impractical for users to read
through all of it.And to some extent, essential verification
*Corresponding author
information may be overlooked. Therefore, recent studies
have investigated methods for highlighting or attaching the
key portions of the context that support the generated output,
thereby reducing the user’s verification burden.
One strategy for extracting such key content is to adopt
perturbation or gradient-based attribution methods (Sudhi
et al. 2024) These methods are able to highlight the key
words or phrases in the context to “explain” the model’s
output. However, because the highlighted elements are of-
ten scattered, the resulting explanations can be difficult for
users to interpret efficiently. An alternative approach is to
generate citations for the model’s responses directly using
the LLM. Existing studies (Gao et al. 2023; Zhang et al.
2024) adopting this approach typically produce citations at
the paragraph or sentence level. We observe two main limi-
tations with this strategy. First, a cited paragraph or sentence
may contain substantial irrelevant information, increasing
the user’s reading time. Second, the generated citations may