KERAG: Knowledge-Enhanced Retrieval-Augmented Generation for
Advanced Question Answering
Yushi Sun1, Kai Sun2, Yifan Ethan Xu2, Xiao Yang2, Xin Luna Dong2, Nan Tang3*, Lei Chen3,1
1HKUST, 2Meta Reality Labs, 3HKUST(GZ)
1{ysunbp, leichen}@cse.ust.hk, 2{sunkaicn, ethanxu, xiaoyangfb, lunadong}@meta.com,
3{nantang, leichen}@hkust-gz.edu.cn
Abstract
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) miti-
gates hallucination in Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs) by incorporating external data,
with Knowledge Graphs (KGs) offering cru-
cial information for question answering. Tra-
ditional Knowledge Graph Question Answer-
ing (KGQA) methods rely on semantic parsing,
which typically retrieves knowledge strictly
necessary for answer generation, thus often
suffer from low coverage due to rigid schema
requirements and semantic ambiguity.
We
present KERAG1, a novel KG-based RAG
pipeline that enhances QA coverage by re-
trieving a broader subgraph likely to contain
relevant information. Our retrieval-filtering-
summarization approach, combined with fine-
tuned LLMs for Chain-of-Thought reason-
ing on knowledge sub-graphs, reduces noises
and improves QA for both simple and com-
plex questions. Experiments demonstrate that
KERAG surpasses state-of-the-art solutions by
about 7% in quality and exceeds GPT-4o (Tool)
by 10-21%.
1
Introduction
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has been
extensively explored recently in both academia and
industry, as a means to mitigate the hallucination
issues of Large Language Models (LLMs) (Sun
et al., 2024d; Yang et al., 2024; Fan et al., 2024;
Ni et al., 2025; Sun et al., 2025). RAG enhances
LLM outputs by incorporating relevant data from
external sources, thereby grounding the generated
content with factual knowledge. Knowledge graphs
serve as a crucial data source, providing efficient
access to rich and precise information for question
answering (Dong, 2024; Hogan et al., 2025).
Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA)
is a well-established field that has been extensively
*Corresponding author.
1All the code and data were done by HKUST: https:
//github.com/ysunbp/KERAG.
filter 
(a) Natural Language Question:
author
J. K. 
Rowling
(b) Standard SP-based KBQA approach:
Q: Which books written by J. K. Rowling are related to magic?
SELECT ?book 
WHERE { 
?book rdf:type :Book . 
?book :author :J_K_Rowling . 
?book :topic :Magic .}
topic
magic?
(c) Our proposed KERAG approach:
author
creator
J. K. 
Rowling
topic
description
......
......
❎ Empty or Incomplete
summarize
Harry Potter and the Goblet of
Fire, Harry Potter and the
Chamber of Secrets, ..., etc.
✅ Correct
(d) Performance of KERAG:
Figure 1: (a) An exemplar query. (b) On the left, we
show the SPARQL query generated by the triple-level
SP-based approach. On the right, we display the linked
KG content. This design leads to empty or incomplete
answers since: 1) The book entities do not necessarily
have an attribute named “topic”; 2) “magic” may not
be explicitly presented in the topic attributes, but may
be embedded in other attributes such as description. (c)
The rationale behind our KERAG approach: entity-level
SP with LLM-based post-processing of the retrieved KG
content. (d) Truthfulness of KERAG against state-of-
the-arts (truthfulness=accuracy-hallucination).
studied long before the advent of LLMs. Most so-
lutions utilize the technique of semantic parsing,
where a natural language question is converted into
a structured query, in the form of either a SPARQL
query (Yih et al., 2016; Das et al., 2021; Gu and
Su, 2022; Shu et al., 2022; Hu et al., 2022; Xie
et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023),
or a retrieval path that first identifies the queried
arXiv:2509.04716v1  [cs.CL]  5 Sep 2025
entity and then follows a particular predicate to
a neighboring entity or attribute value as the an-
swer (Yih et al., 2015; Luo et al., 2018; Lan et al.,
2019; Yu et al., 2022). When successful, these so-
lutions produce precise and concise answers. How-
ever, they requ