PICOs-RAG: PICO-supported Query Rewriting for
Retrieval-Augmented Generation in Evidence-Based
Medicine
1stMengzhou Sun
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
mzsun@ir.hit.edu.cn
2nd Sendong Zhao
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
sdzhao@ir.hit.edu.cn
3rdJianyu Chen
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
hcwang@ir.hit.edu.cn
4thBing Qin
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
qinb@ir.hit.edu.cn
Abstract—Evidence-based medicine (EBM) research has al-
ways been of paramount importance. It is important to find
appropriate medical theoretical support for the needs from physi-
cians or patients to reduce the occurrence of medical accidents.
This process is often carried out by human querying relevant
literature databases, which lacks objectivity and efficiency. There-
fore, researchers utilize retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
to search for evidence and generate responses automatically.
However, current RAG methods struggle to handle complex
queries in real-world clinical scenarios. For example, when
queries lack certain information or use imprecise language, the
model may retrieve irrelevant evidence and generate unhelpful
answers. To address this issue, we present the PICOs-RAG to
expand the user queries into a better format. Our method can
expand and normalize the queries into professional ones and
use the PICO format, a search strategy tool present in EBM, to
extract the most important information used for retrieval. This
approach significantly enhances retrieval efficiency and relevance,
resulting in up to an 8.8% improvement compared to the baseline
evaluated by our method. Thereby the PICOs-RAG improves the
performance of the large language models into a helpful and
reliable medical assistant in EBM.
Index
Terms—LLMs,
Evidence-Based
Medicine,
Query
Rewriting, RAG, PICO
I. INTRODUCTION
As evidence-based medicine (EBM) becomes increasingly
widespread, physicians recognize that clinical diagnoses sup-
ported by substantial medical evidence tend to have lower mis-
diagnosis rates. With the growing amount of medical literature,
each diagnosis now requires extensive supporting evidence.
Consequently, medical professionals are turning to AI as an
auxiliary tool to implement EBM effectively. However, AI
must be capable of integrating all patient information and the
available supporting evidence [4]. Traditional models, due to
memory limitations and other constraints, have struggled to
manage and synthesize this large amount of evidence com-
prehensively [7, 16]. This situation persists until the advent
of large language models (LLMs). With the enhancement
of various medical LLMs and continuous optimization of
training methods, many of these models have now reached
the capability to effectively perform this critical clinical task
[6].
Fig. 1. The architecture of current RAG methods compared with our PICOs
method. The PICOs enhance the relevance of the evidence retrieval process
and improve the accuracy of responses, enabling the LLM to provide precise
and targeted assistance.
Recently, LLMs have undergone multiple rounds of rein-
forcement and improvement [1]. They can utilize the retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) method to significantly reduce
the hallucination to the levels accepted by many professional
researchers
[27, 10]. However, the LLMs still have many
limitations for their application in medicine. Current LLMs
still can not answer clearly in the domain such as clinical
medicine for the complicated queries. From real medical
question-and-answer Platforms [8], we find that due to the
lack of professional knowledge, users such as patients may
arXiv:2510.23998v1  [cs.CL]  28 Oct 2025
use non-professional words and omit crucial information when
they query doctors. In this situation, RAG frequently fails to
retrieve the most critical evidence and gets a noisy index. As
shown in Figure 1, the current RAG retrieves t