Unmasking Hiring Bias: Platform Data Analysis and Controlled
Experiments on Bias in Online Freelance Marketplaces via
RAG-LLM Generated Contents
Wugeng Zheng
zheng.wug@northeastern.edu
Northeastern University
Boston, Massachusetts, USA
Guohou Shan
g.shan@northeastern.edu
Northeastern University
Boston, Massachusetts, USA
Abstract
Online freelance marketplaces, a rapidly growing part of the global
labor market, are creating a fair environment where professional
skills are the main factor for hiring. While these platforms can re-
duce bias from traditional hiring, the personal information in user
profiles raises concerns about ongoing discrimination. Past studies
on this topic have mostly used existing data, which makes it hard
to control for other factors and clearly see the effect of things like
gender or race. To solve these problems, this paper presents a new
method that uses Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) with a
Large Language Model (LLM) to create realistic, artificial freelancer
profiles for controlled experiments. This approach effectively sepa-
rates individual factors, enabling a clearer statistical analysis of how
different variables influence the freelancer project process. In addi-
tion to analyzing extracted data with traditional statistical methods
for post-project stage analysis, our research utilizes a dataset with
highly controlled variables, generated by an RAG-LLM, to conduct
a simulated hiring experiment for pre-project stage analysis. The
results of our experiments show that, regarding gender, while no
significant preference emerged in initial hiring decisions, female
freelancers are substantially more likely to receive imperfect ratings
post-project stage. Regarding regional bias, a strong and consistent
preference favoring US-based freelancers shows that people are
more likely to be selected in the simulated experiments, perceived
as more leader-like, and receive higher ratings on the live platform.
Keywords
Large language models, human-AI interaction, retrieval-augmented
generation, generative models, user experiments, controlled experi-
ments, synthetic data generation, demographic bias, human-in-the-
loop evaluation
ACM Reference Format:
Wugeng Zheng and Guohou Shan. 2026. Unmasking Hiring Bias: Platform
Data Analysis and Controlled Experiments on Bias in Online Freelance
Marketplaces via RAG-LLM Generated Contents. In Proceedings of March
23–26, 2026 (ACM Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces ’2026). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 8 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ACM Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces ’2026,
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YYYY/MM
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
Figure 1: Workflow
1
Introduction
Online freelance marketplaces are increasingly becoming a vital
component of the global labor market after the COVID-19 crisis [1].
In Europe and the United States, 20 to 30 percent of the working-age
population engage in some form of independent work [2]. These
platforms provide workers with flexibility to choose projects that fit
their skills while giving employers access to a diverse talent [3][4].
In theory, this task-oriented model should boost a more equally
competitive environment, where professional capabilities, rather
than personal background, serve as the core criterion for evaluation
[5].
However, while online pla