RAG-Stack: Co-Optimizing RAG Quality and Performance
From the Vector Database Perspective
Wenqi Jiang
Systems Group, ETH Zurich
wenqi.jiang@inf.ethz.ch
Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as one of the
most prominent applications of vector databases. By integrating
documents retrieved from a database into the prompt of a large
language model (LLM), RAG enables more reliable and informative
content generation. While there has been extensive research on
vector databases, many open research problems remain once they
are considered in the wider context of end-to-end RAG pipelines.
One practical yet challenging problem is how to jointly optimize
both system performance and generation quality in RAG, which is
significantly more complex than it appears due to the numerous
knobs on both the algorithmic side (spanning models and databases)
and the systems side (from software to hardware). In this paper, we
present RAG-Stack, a three-pillar blueprint for quality–performance
co-optimization in RAG systems. RAG-Stack comprises: (1) RAG-IR,
an intermediate representation that serves as an abstraction layer
to decouple quality and performance aspects; (2) RAG-CM, a
cost model for estimating system performance given an RAG-IR;
and (3) RAG-PE, a plan exploration algorithm that searches for
high-quality, high-performance RAG configurations. We believe
this three-pillar blueprint will become the de facto paradigm for
RAG quality–performance co-optimization in the years to come.
1
Introduction
Vector database has become a hot topic in recent years due to the
rapid advancement of machine learning and generative AI. Among
its many applications, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has
emerged as one of the most prominent use cases in the LLM era. By
incorporating relevant documents retrieved from databases into
the LLM prompt as shown in Figure 1, RAG improves the reliability,
timeliness, and comprehensiveness of generated responses [3, 5, 16].
As a result, RAG has become the industry standard for knowledge-
intensive natural language processing tasks [3, 15, 16, 18, 19].
Well-Tuned Vector Databases Alone Are Not Enough for
RAG Serving. We have witnessed extensive research on optimizing
query processing in vector databases (referred to as retrievals
throughout this paper for brevity), particularly in terms of quality
(e.g., recall) and performance (e.g., QPS, latency), often on standard
benchmarks with a predefined dataset including a fixed number of
encoded vectors, a specified Top-𝐾, and a target recall requirement.
While research on retrieval itself is undoubtedly fundamental,
many open problems remain when integrating vector databases
into end-to-end RAG pipelines, because the previous assumptions
(optimizing retrievals in isolation on well-defined benchmarks) no
longer hold. On the other hand, there is a vast number of configurable
knobs in RAG spanning both algorithmic and system aspects, all of
which influence end-to-end RAG system performance (e.g., latency,
What are Thomas Edison's 
most notable inventions?
These inventions, including the 
phonograph, the motion picture 
camera, and the electric …
User question:
Thomas invented 
phonograph, motion 
picture camera, …
LLM
Vector database
texts
vectors
2
1
4
Retrieved passages:
Generated answer:
3
Rerank
Query Rewrite
3
Figure 1: A simple RAG pipeline with models and a database.
throughput) and generation quality (e.g., accuracy, reliability), making
it essential to move beyond tuning vector databases in isolation.
Algorithm Configuration Space. There are numerous algorith-
mic factors that influence the generation quality of a RAG pipeline.
Forexample,howisthedatabaseconfigured?Thisincludesdecisions
such as document chunking strategies, choice of embedding models,
index configurations, and retrieval quality requirements such as
recall. In addition to the database, should auxiliary models be used
before and after retrieval? These may include a query rewriter
that rephra