2026 IEEE International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA)
HA-RAG: Hotness-Aware RAG Acceleration via
Mixed Precision and Data Placement
Danying Ge, Jianhua Gao, Yixue Yang, and Weixing Ji
Beijing Normal University, China
gdanying@163.com, gaojh@bnu.edu.cn, yyxmaeve@gmail.com, jwx@bnu.edu.cn
Abstract—Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) improves
model output accuracy by leveraging external knowledge bases,
serving as an effective solution to address hallucination issues and
knowledge-update delays in Large Language Models (LLMs).
However, the introduction of external knowledge bases presents
RAG with challenges in long-context processing, significantly
increasing memory consumption and inference latency. Existing
research accelerates inference by precomputing Key and Value
(KV) of the knowledge base and loading them on-demand during
inference. Based on the access frequency of different KV chunks
within the external knowledge base, this paper proposes a
hotness-aware RAG (HA-RAG) inference optimization system.
First, leveraging the numerical distribution of KV chunks,
we introduce a hotness-aware mixed-precision compressing and
loading method to reduce disk I/O and memory access overhead.
Second, we design a hotness-aware data placement strategy that
prioritizes storing frequently accessed KV chunks in high-speed
memory to improve data access efficiency. Experimental results
demonstrate that, compared with TurboRAG, the proposed HA-
RAG achieves an average speedup of 2.10× and maximum
speedup of 10.49x in Time-To-First-Token (TTFT) with negligible
accuracy loss.
I. INTRODUCTION
With the advancement of artificial intelligence technologies,
Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong
capabilities in tasks such as text generation, translation, and
more, leading to widespread applications across a variety of
fields [61], [63]–[66]. However, LLMs have been observed to
suffer from the hallucination problem in real-world scenar-
ios, where the generated responses may contain information
that deviates from factual truth [62], [69]–[71]. The issue
primarily arises from two key factors: firstly, the inherent
representational limitations of LLMs make it challenging to
comprehensively and accurately capture complex semantic
information; secondly, the time lag in updating training data
hinders the timely integration of the latest knowledge into the
models [74].
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [45] has emerged
as an effective approach to mitigate this problem. By inject-
ing task-specific contextual knowledge into the input, RAG
significantly enhances the quality of generated text and the
factual reliability of the output, thereby reducing hallucinations
in LLMs [54]. As illustrated in Figure 1, the typical workflow
of RAG begins by embedding documents closely related to
tasks into vector representations to form a knowledge base.
Then, for each user input, a similarity measure such as cosine
similarity is used to retrieve the most relevant documents
from the knowledge base. These retrieved documents are
appended to the input as additional context, resulting in an
augmented input prompt, which is then fed into the LLM
for inference. By incorporating context that is specific to
downstream tasks, RAG provides more targeted and relevant
information to the model. Even when the training data lacks
examples related to a particular task, RAG enables the model
to access key information via retrieval, thereby facilitating
high-quality generation.
Fig. 1: Workflow of RAG.
However, RAG significantly extends the input length, which
in turn leads to substantial computational overhead during the
prefill stage of inference. Specifically, in the prefill phase,
LLM must encode the entire input sequence and compute
attention interactions between every pair of tokens to gen-
erate the first output token. This results in a computational
complexity that grows quadratically with respect to the input
length [46], severely limi