The Role of Parametric Injection-A Systematic Study of
Parametric Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Minghao Tang
State Key Laboratory of AI Safety,
ICT, Chinese Academy of Sciences
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
Beijing, China
tangminghao25@mails.ucas.ac.cn
Shiyu Ni
State Key Laboratory of AI Safety,
ICT, Chinese Academy of Sciences
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
Beijing, China
nishiyu23z@ict.ac.cn
Jingtong Wu, Zengxin Han
wangzhenlingwu@163.com
zengxin.hanzx@gmail.com
Keping Bi
State Key Laboratory of AI Safety,
ICT, Chinese Academy of Sciences
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
Beijing, China
bikeping@ict.ac.cn
Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enhances large language
models (LLMs) by retrieving external documents. As an emerging
form of RAG, parametric retrieval-augmented generation (PRAG)
encodes documents as model parameters (i.e., LoRA modules) and
injects these representations into the model during inference, en-
abling interaction between the LLM and documents at parametric
level. Compared with directly placing documents in the input con-
text, PRAG is more efficient and has the potential to offer deeper
model–document interaction. Despite its growing attention, the
mechanism underlying parametric injection remains poorly un-
derstood. In this work, we present a systematic study of PRAG to
clarify the role of parametric injection, showing that parameterized
documents capture only partial semantic information of documents,
and relying on them alone yields inferior performance compared
to interaction at text level. However, these parametric representa-
tions encode high-level document information that can enhance
the model’s understanding of documents within the input context.
When combined parameterized documents with textual documents,
the model can leverage relevant information more effectively and
become more robust to noisy inputs, achieving better performance
than either source alone. We recommend jointly using parameter-
ized and textual documents and advocate for increasing the infor-
mation content of parametric representations to advance PRAG.
CCS Concepts
• Information systems →Novelty in information retrieval.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/18/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
Keywords
Retrieval-Augmented Generation; Parametric RAG; LoRA
ACM Reference Format:
Minghao Tang, Shiyu Ni, Jingtong Wu, Zengxin Han, and Keping Bi. 2018.
The Role of Parametric Injection-A Systematic Study of Parametric Retrieval-
Augmented Generation. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct
conference title from your rights confirmation emai (Conference acronym ’XX).
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1
Introduction
Despite the remarkable capabilities of large language models (LLMs)
across a wide range of tasks [5, 6, 29], their knowledge is limited by
the training data. When confronted with questions that fall outside
their knowledge boundary, LLMs often hallucinate—generating flu-
ent yet factually incorrect responses [13, 17, 18]. Retrieval-augmented
generation (RAG) addresses this limitation by retrieving relevant
external documents to supplement the model’s internal knowl-
edge [11, 15], and has become an effective approach for knowledge-
intensi