TeaRAG: A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented
Generation Framework
CHAO ZHANG, University of Science and Technology of China, China and City University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong
YUHAO WANG, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
DERONG XU, University of Science and Technology of China, China and City University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong
HAOXIN ZHANG, Xiaohongshu Inc., China
YUANJIE LYU, YUHAO CHEN, SHUOCHEN LIU, and TONG XU*, University of Science
and Technology of China, China
XIANGYU ZHAO*, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
YAN GAO and YAO HU, Xiaohongshu Inc., China
ENHONG CHEN, University of Science and Technology of China, China
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) utilizes external knowledge to augment Large Language Models’
(LLMs) reliability. For flexibility, agentic RAG employs autonomous, multi-round retrieval and reasoning to
resolve queries. Although recent agentic RAG has improved via reinforcement learning, they often incur sub-
stantial token overhead from search and reasoning. This trade-off prioritizes accuracy over efficiency. To address
this issue, this work proposes TeaRAG, a Token-efficient agentic RAG framework capable of compressing both
retrieval content and reasoning steps. 1) First, the retrieved content is compressed by augmenting chunk-based
semantic retrieval with a graph retrieval using concise triplets. A knowledge association graph is then built from
semantic similarity and co-occurrence. Finally, Personalized PageRank is leveraged to highlight key knowledge
within this graph, reducing the number of tokens per retrieval. 2) Besides, to reduce reasoning steps, Iterative
Process-aware Direct Preference Optimization (IP-DPO) is proposed. Specifically, our reward function evaluates
the knowledge sufficiency by a knowledge matching mechanism, while penalizing excessive reasoning steps.
This design can produce high-quality preference-pair datasets, supporting iterative DPO to improve reasoning
conciseness. Across six datasets, TeaRAG improves the average Exact Match by 4% and 2% while reducing
output tokens by 61% and 59% on Llama3-8B-Instruct and Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct, respectively. Code is available
at https://github.com/Applied-Machine-Learning-Lab/TeaRAG.
*Corresponding authors.
Authors’ Contact Information: Chao Zhang, zclfe00@mail.ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China
and City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Yuhao Wang, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, yhwang25-
c@my.cityu.edu.hk; Derong Xu, derongxu@mail.ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China and City
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Haoxin Zhang, Xiaohongshu Inc., China, zhanghaoxin1994@gmail.com; Yuanjie Lyu,
s1583050085@gmail.com; Yuhao Chen, isyuhaochen@mail.ustc.edu.cn; Shuochen Liu, shuochenliu@mail.ustc.edu.cn; Tong
Xu, tongxu@ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China; Xiangyu Zhao, xianzhao@cityu.edu.hk,
City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Yan Gao, yadun@xiaohongshu.com; Yao Hu, yaoohu@gmail.com, Xiaohongshu
Inc., China; Enhong Chen, cheneh@ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior
specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference acronym ’XX, Woodstock, NY
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.
arXiv: