Hindsight Distillation Reasoning with Knowledge Encouragement
Preference for Knowledge-based Visual Question Answering
Yu Zhao1,2
Ying Zhang1
Xuhui Sui1
Baohang Zhou3
Li Shen4
Dacheng Tao2
1 College of Computer Science, Nankai University, Tianjin, China
2 College of Computing and Data Science, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
3 School of Software, Tiangong University, Tianjin, China 4 Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, China
zhaoyu@dbis.nankai.edu.cn, yingzhang@nankai.edu.cn
Abstract
Knowledge-based Visual Question Answering (KBVQA)
necessitates external knowledge incorporation beyond
cross-modal understanding. Existing KBVQA methods
either utilize implicit knowledge in multimodal large
language models (MLLMs) via in-context learning or
explicit knowledge via retrieval augmented generation.
However, their reasoning processes remain implicit,
without explicit multi-step trajectories from MLLMs.
To address this gap, we provide a Hindsight Distilled
Reasoning (HinD) framework with Knowledge Encour-
agement Preference Optimization (KEPO), designed to
elicit and harness internal knowledge reasoning ability
in MLLMs. First, to tackle the reasoning supervision
problem, we propose to emphasize the hindsight wisdom
of MLLM by prompting a frozen 7B-size MLLM to com-
plete the reasoning process between the question and its
ground truth answer, constructing Hindsight-Zero train-
ing data. Then we self-distill Hindsight-Zero into Chain-
of-Thought (CoT) Generator and Knowledge Genera-
tor, enabling the generation of sequential steps and dis-
crete facts.
Secondly, to tackle the misalignment be-
tween knowledge correctness and confidence, we opti-
mize the Knowledge Generator with KEPO, preferring
under-confident but helpful knowledge over the over-
confident but unhelpful one.
The generated CoT and
sampled knowledge are then exploited for answer pre-
diction. Experiments on OK-VQA and A-OKVQA vali-
date the effectiveness of HinD, showing that HinD with
elicited reasoning from 7B-size MLLM achieves supe-
rior performance without commercial model APIs or
outside knowledge.
1. Introduction
Knowledge-based Visual Question Answering (KB-
VQA) [31] is a challenging task for cross-modal rea-
Q1 C1 A1
Examples
Doc 1
Documents
Reason Path
Retrieval Augmented Methods
In-Context Learning Methods
Which American 
president is 
associated with 
stuffed animal 
seen here?
Teddy
Roosevelt
?
Our Hindsight Reasoning
Figure 1. KBVQA requires necessary knowledge incorpora-
tion for reasoning.
Unlike existing in-context learning and
retrieval-augmented methods, we elicit the reasoning paths in-
side MLLMs through Hindsight self-distillation.
soning, aiming at answering the question based on the
image and external knowledge.
Unlike conventional
VQA [2, 12], which answers questions based solely on
image content, KBVQA necessitates the commonsense
incorporation beyond the image. Take Figure 1 as an
example, answering the question requires (1) identify-
ing the stuffed animals in the image as teddy bears, (2)
associating the teddy bear with President Teddy Roo-
sevelt.
KBVQA is essential for knowledge-intensive
visual-language application scenarios [36].
Existing KBVQA studies can be categorized into two
mainstreams: (1) In-context learning methods [17, 22,
52] usually construct relative examples with captions or
zero-shot captions [50] to prompt large language models
(LLMs) [1, 3, 19, 40] to exploit their implicit knowl-
edge.
However, the in-context learning paradigm is
basically an “imitation” of the context examples, lack-
ing explicit reasoning paths to explain their reasonabil-
ity. (2) Retrieval augmented methods [13, 25, 28] usu-
ally retrieve relevant knowledge triples or documents to
augment the answer prediction. They usually fine-tune
1
arXiv:2511.11132v1  [cs.CV]  14 Nov 2025
the Multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) to answer the question
based on the retrieved knowledge, in which the reason-
ing source and process remain non-transparent.
Thus, inspired