Answering Students’ Questions on Course Forums
Using Multiple Chain-of-Thought Reasoning and
Finetuning RAG-Enabled LLM
Neo Wang1 and Sonit Singh1
1School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
Email: sonit.singh@unsw.edu.au
Abstract—The course forums are increasingly significant and
play vital role in facilitating student discussions and answering
their questions related to the course. It provides a platform
for students to post their questions related to the content and
admin issues related to the course. However, there are several
challenges due to the increase in the number of students enrolled
in the course. The primary challenge is that students’ queries
cannot be responded immediately and the instructors have to
face lots of repetitive questions. To mitigate these issues, we
propose a question answering system based on large language
model with retrieval augmented generation (RAG) method. This
work focuses on designing a question answering system with open
source Large Language Model (LLM) and fine-tuning it on the
relevant course dataset. To further improve the performance, we
use a local knowledge base and applied RAG method to retrieve
relevant documents relevant to students’ queries, where the local
knowledge base contains all the course content. To mitigate the
hallucination of LLMs, We also integrate it with multi chain-
of-thought reasoning to overcome the challenge of hallucination
in LLMs. In this work, we experiment fine-tuned LLM with
RAG method on the HotpotQA dataset. The experimental results
demonstrate that the fine-tuned LLM with RAG method has a
strong performance on question answering task.
Index Terms—Online Course forum, Retrieval-Augmented
Generation, Chain-of-thought reasoning, Large Language Model
I. INTRODUCTION
In large university courses, online student forums (such
as Moodle and Ed forum) play a crucial role in facilitat-
ing student discussions and resolving academic queries. In
the beginning, it is possible for course staff to respond to
queries in a timely manner. However, with a high volume of
posts, many questions become repetitive, leading to delays
in response times and an increased burden on instructors.
Students often struggle to find existing answers, and teaching
staff must repeatedly address similar concerns. Therefore, a
related question recommendation system can help mitigate
these challenges by efficiently suggesting previously answered
relevant questions, improving student learning experiences,
and reducing instructor workload.
In this paper, we developed a question answering system
based on large language model (LLM) and retrieval augmented
generation (RAG), and also fine-tuned on the relevant course
dataset. The system contributes to the development of AI
applications in the education domain. By introducing a related
question answering system, it promotes a reduction in course
staff workload. Teaching staff could focus on more complex
or new questions rather than answering repetitive or simple
questions. In addition, the developed system could provide an
immediate response to student queries anytime (available 24/7)
and reduce the need to find similar posts. The proposed system
could also improve self-learning in students as they can always
find help related to the course whenever they need. Addition-
ally, leveraging LLMs for related question recommendation
system could increase search precision, contributing to AI-
driven educational support and broader applications such as
knowledge-sharing platforms.
This research aims to improve the efficiency of online
course forums by developing a question-answering system
based on Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), which
leverages an external knowledge base to enhance the ability
of LLM to generate more accurate and contextually relevant
responses. Our system could identify whether a newly posted
student question has already been answered in the course
forum. If a similar question exis