TabRAG: Tabular Document Retrieval
via Structured Language Representations
Jacob Si1∗, Mike Qu2∗, Michelle Lee1, Yingzhen Li1
Imperial College London1
Columbia University2
{y.si23, chi.m.lee24, yingzhen.li}@imperial.ac.uk
{zq2234}@columbia.edu
Abstract
Ingesting data for Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) involves either fine-
tuning the embedding model directly on the target corpus or parsing documents for
embedding model encoding. The former, while accurate, incurs high computational
hardware requirements, while the latter suffers from suboptimal performance
when extracting tabular data. In this work, we address the latter by presenting
TABRAG, a parsing-based RAG pipeline designed to tackle table-heavy documents
via structured language representations. TABRAG outperforms existing popular
parsing-based methods for generation and retrieval. Code is available at: https:
//github.com/jacobyhsi/TabRAG.
1
Introduction
The latest retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) pipelines focus on fine-tuning language models
to output high-quality embeddings [7, 28, 27]. However, these approaches often require expensive
computational hardware to extend to new, unseen data. On the other hand, traditional RAG [13, 8]
relies on parsing the document to obtain text [15, 6]. While straightforward, the most common
parsing techniques [19, 9, 20, 26, 24] often struggle to tackle large, complex tables.
Since the newest embedding models in RAG systems are built upon foundation language models,
processing and designing an effective data representation is critical for the embedding model to work
effectively [29]. In this work, we propose TABRAG, an end-to-end parsing-based RAG pipeline for
tabular documents via structured language representations. TABRAG first segments the data via a
layout detector [14, 11] that allows the pipeline to focus on smaller data chunks. Next, we engineer
prompts for a vision language model (VLM) to parse various data types [5, 21]. Specifically, for
tables, we focus on extracting the values along with their corresponding column and row names
into a structured representation. This is followed by a large language model (LLM) that generates
natural language descriptions from the structured representation, obtaining a coherent and sequential
output that can be effectively encoded by the embedding model [29, 23]. Extensive experiments
demonstrate that TABRAG outperforms existing methods in both generation and retrieval across
various benchmarks. Our architecture is shown in Figure 1.
2
Method
While retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) performs well on standard text corpora, extending it
to tabular documents is not as straightforward. Unlike plain text, which follows a natural sequence
and benefits from a wide range of pretrained language embeddings [3, 8, 13], tables convey meaning
∗Equal Contribution.
AI for Tabular Data Workshop at NeurIPS 2025.
arXiv:2511.06582v1  [cs.CL]  10 Nov 2025
Step 1: 
Layout Parsing &
Component Extraction
VLM
Step 2: 
Generate Structured
Representation for
Components
LLM
Step 3: 
Generate Language
Representation Friendly
for Embedding Model
TabRAG
Text
Figures
Tables
Retrieval & Generation
Query
Step 4: 
Retrieval through
Vector Database
Answer
Step 5: 
Generation through
In-Context Learning
Figure 1: The TABRAG Architecture, a parsing-based RAG pipeline designed specifically for tables.
First, a layout detection model is applied to segment various components from the documents.
Specifically, the tables are then passed into a vision language model, which extracts cell values along
with their corresponding column and row names in a structured representation. Lastly, the structured
representation is inputted into a language model that generates natural language descriptions.
through a two-dimensional layout, where each cell’s interpretation depends on both its row and
column context [2, 22]. Naive text extraction [19, 9, 20] can often disrupt this structure, as it is unable
to identify layout-related cue