GRAD-MATCH: Gradient Matching based Data Subset Selection for Efﬁcient
Deep Model Training
Krishnateja Killamsetty 1 Durga Sivasubramanian 2 Ganesh Ramakrishnan 2 Abir De 2 Rishabh Iyer 1
Abstract
The great success of modern machine learning
models on large datasets is contingent on exten-
sive computational resources with high ﬁnancial
and environmental costs. One way to address this
is by extracting subsets that generalize on par with
the full data. In this work, we propose a general
framework, GRAD-MATCH, which ﬁnds subsets
that closely match the gradient of the training
or validation set. We ﬁnd such subsets effec-
tively using an orthogonal matching pursuit algo-
rithm. We show rigorous theoretical and conver-
gence guarantees of the proposed algorithm and,
through our extensive experiments on real-world
datasets, show the effectiveness of our proposed
framework. We show that GRAD-MATCH signiﬁ-
cantly and consistently outperforms several recent
data-selection algorithms and achieves the best
accuracy-efﬁciency trade-off. GRAD-MATCH is
available as a part of the CORDS toolkit: https:
//github.com/decile-team/cords.
1. Introduction
Modern machine learning systems, especially deep learning
frameworks, have become very computationally expensive
and data-hungry. Massive training datasets have signiﬁ-
cantly increased end-to-end training times, computational
and resource costs (Sharir et al., 2020), energy require-
ments (Strubell et al., 2019), and carbon footprint (Schwartz
et al., 2019). Moreover, most machine learning models
require extensive hyper-parameter tuning, further increas-
ing the cost and time, especially on massive datasets. In
this paper, we study efﬁcient machine learning through the
paradigm of subset selection, which seeks to answer the
following question: Can we train a machine learning model
on much smaller subsets of a large dataset, with negligible
1Department of Computer Science, University of Texas
at Dallas, Dallas, USA
2Department of Computer Science
and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, In-
dia.
Correspondence to:
Krishnateja Killamsetty <krish-
nateja.killamsetty@utdallas.edu>.
Proceedings of the 38 th International Conference on Machine
Learning, PMLR 139, 2021. Copyright 2021 by the author(s).
loss in test accuracy?
Data subset selection enables efﬁcient learning at multiple
levels. First, by using a subset of a large dataset, we can
enable learning on relatively low resource computational
environments without requiring a large number of GPU and
CPU servers. Second, since we are training on a subset
of the training dataset, we can signiﬁcantly improve the
end-to-end turnaround time, which often requires multiple
training runs for hyper-parameter tuning. Finally, this also
enables signiﬁcant reduction in the energy consumption and
CO2 emissions of deep learning (Strubell et al., 2019), par-
ticularly since a large number of deep learning experiments
need to be run in practice. Recently, there have been sev-
eral efforts to make machine learning models more efﬁcient
via data subset selection (Wei et al., 2014a; Kaushal et al.,
2019; Coleman et al., 2020; Har-Peled & Mazumdar, 2004;
Clarkson, 2010; Mirzasoleiman et al., 2020a; Killamsetty
et al., 2021). Existing approaches either use proxy functions
to select data points, or are speciﬁc to particular machine
learning models, or use approximations of quantities such
as gradient error or generalization errors. In this work, we
propose a data selection framework called GRAD-MATCH,
which exactly minimizes a residual error term obtained by
analyzing adaptive data subset selection algorithms, there-
fore admitting theoretical guarantees on convergence.
1.1. Contributions of this work
Analyses of convergence bounds of adaptive data subset
selection algorithms.
A growing number of recent
approaches (Mirzasoleiman et al., 2020a; Killamsetty et al.,
2021) can be cast within the framework of adaptive data
subset selection, where the data sub