Preprint
#INSTAG:
INSTRUCTION TAGGING
FOR ANALYZ-
ING SUPERVISED FINE-TUNING OF LARGE LANGUAGE
MODELS
Keming Lu∗& Hongyi Yuan∗†& Zheng Yuan & Runji Lin†
Alibaba DAMO Academy
{lukeming.lkm,yuanhongyi.yhy,yuanzheng.yuanzhen,linrunji.lrj}@alibaba-inc.com
Junyang Lin & Chuanqi Tan & Chang Zhou & Jingren Zhou
Alibaba DAMO Academy
{junyang.ljy,chuanqi.tcq,ericzhou.zc,jingren.zhou}@alibaba-inc.com
ABSTRACT
Foundation language models obtain the instruction-following ability through su-
pervised fine-tuning (SFT). Diversity and complexity are considered critical fac-
tors of a successful SFT dataset, while their definitions remain obscure and lack
quantitative analyses. In this work, we propose INSTAG, an open-set fine-grained
tagger, to tag samples within SFT datasets based on semantics and intentions and
define instruction diversity and complexity regarding tags. We obtain 6.6K tags
to describe comprehensive user queries. We analyze popular open-sourced SFT
datasets and find that the model ability grows with more diverse and complex data.
Based on this observation, we propose a data selector based on INSTAG to select
6K diverse and complex samples from open-source datasets and fine-tune mod-
els on INSTAG-selected data. The resulting models, TAGLM, outperform open-
source models based on considerably larger SFT data evaluated by MT-BENCH,
echoing the importance of query diversity and complexity. We open-source IN-
STAG in https://github.com/OFA-Sys/InsTag.
1
INTRODUCTION
The rise of contemporary chatbots, including GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023), has brought to the forefront
of generative artificial intelligence that is based on large language models (LLMs) to tackle a variety
of real-world tasks. Well-aligned LLMs with human expectations can precisely recognize human
intentions and properly formalize responses expressed in natural languages (Wang et al., 2023d).
Achieving such a level of alignment typically necessitates fine-tuning processes, such as supervised
fine-tuning (SFT) (Taori et al., 2023; Chiang et al., 2023; Touvron et al., 2023b), response ranking
(Yuan et al., 2023b; Song et al., 2023; Rafailov et al., 2023), and reinforcement learning with human
feedback (RLHF) (Bai et al., 2022a; Ouyang et al., 2022; Touvron et al., 2023b), to enable LLMs to
comprehend and execute diverse instructions effectively.
A broad range of training data covering various semantics and specialties is crucial for achieving
alignment with human preference through SFT, which is typically gathered through crowd-sourcing
(Ouyang et al., 2022; Bai et al., 2022a; Touvron et al., 2023b) or by distilling from other LLMs
(Taori et al., 2023; Ding et al., 2023). The SFT data for alignment is generally formalized in a
multi-turn utterance manner, and each turn is composed of a human query and a corresponding
response expected to generate by well-aligned chatbots. Recent research indicates that the training
dataset for alignment should be diverse and complex, covering various domains, tasks, and formats
(Xu et al., 2023a; Mukherjee et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2023b). Such diversity and complexity are
mainly determined by query formation. Various methods are proposed and claimed to improve the
diversity and complexity of the queries and advance the alignment of LLMs (Wang et al. 2023c; Xu
∗Equally Contributed. Order determined by swapping the one in Yuan et al. (2023a).
†Work done during internships at Alibaba DAMO Academy.
1
arXiv:2308.07074v2  [cs.CL]  15 Aug 2023
Preprint
et al. 2023a; Ding et al. 2023; inter alia). However, how to quantify the diversity and complexity of
queries is significantly understudied and hence less analyzed.
To shed light on this topic, we propose using a tagging system to feature and categorize samples in
SFT datasets. Given the versatile tasks aligned LLMs are expected to handle, an equally versatile
tag system is necessary to distinguish open-world human queries. However, building an open, fine-
grained tagging system manually is infeasi