Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021
EVALUATION OF SIMILARITY-BASED EXPLANATIONS
Kazuaki Hanawa1,2, Sho Yokoi2,1, Satoshi Hara3, Kentaro Inui2,1
RIKEN Center for Advanced Intelligence Project1, Tohoku University2, Osaka University3
kazuaki.hanawa@riken.jp, yokoi@ecei.tohoku.ac.jp,
satohara@ar.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp, inui@ecei.tohoku.ac.jp
ABSTRACT
Explaining the predictions made by complex machine learning models helps users
to understand and accept the predicted outputs with conﬁdence. One promising way
is to use similarity-based explanation that provides similar instances as evidence
to support model predictions. Several relevance metrics are used for this purpose.
In this study, we investigated relevance metrics that can provide reasonable ex-
planations to users. Speciﬁcally, we adopted three tests to evaluate whether the
relevance metrics satisfy the minimal requirements for similarity-based explanation.
Our experiments revealed that the cosine similarity of the gradients of the loss
performs best, which would be a recommended choice in practice. In addition, we
showed that some metrics perform poorly in our tests and analyzed the reasons of
their failure. We expect our insights to help practitioners in selecting appropriate
relevance metrics and also aid further researches for designing better relevance
metrics for explanations.
1
INTRODUCTION
Explaining the predictions made by complex machine learning models helps users understand
and accept the predicted outputs with conﬁdence (Ribeiro et al., 2016; Lundberg & Lee, 2017;
Guidotti et al., 2018; Adadi & Berrada, 2018; Molnar, 2020). Instance-based explanations are a
popular type of explanation that achieve this goal by presenting one or several training instances
that support the predictions of a model. Several types of instance-based explanations have been
proposed, such as explaining with instances similar to the instance of interest (i.e., the test instance in
question) (Charpiat et al., 2019; Barshan et al., 2020); harmful instances that degrade the performance
of models (Koh & Liang, 2017; Khanna et al., 2019); counter-examples that contrast how a prediction
can be changed (Wachter et al., 2018); and irregular instances (Kim et al., 2016).
Among these, we focus on the ﬁrst one, the type of explanation that gives one or several training
instances that are similar to the test instance in question and corresponding model predictions. We
refer to this type of instance-based explanation as similarity-based explanation. A similarity-based
explanation is of the form “I (the model) think this image is cat because similar images I saw in the
past were also cat.” This type of explanation is analogous to the way humans make decisions by
referring to their prior experiences (Klein & Calderwood, 1988; Klein, 1989; Read & Cesa, 1991).
Hence, it tends to be easy to understand even to users with little expertise about machine learning.
A report stated that with this type of explanation, users tend to have higher conﬁdence in model
predictions compared to explanations that presents contributing features (Cunningham et al., 2003).
In the instance-based explanation paradigm, including similarity-based explanation, a relevance
metric R(z, z′) ∈R is typically used to quantify the relationship between two instances, z = (x, y)
and z′ = (x′, y′).
Deﬁnition 1 (Instance-based Explanation Using Relevance Metric). Let D
=
{z(i)
train
=
(x(i)
train, y(i)
train)}N
i=1 be a set of training instances and xtest be a test input of interest whose pre-
dicted output is given by bytest = f(xtest) with a predictive model f. An instance-based explanation
method gives the most relevant training instance ¯z ∈D to the test instance ztest = (xtest, bytest) by
¯z = arg maxztrain∈D R(ztest, ztrain) using a relevance metric R(ztest, ztrain).
Previously proposed relevance metrics include similarity (Caruana et al., 1999), kernel functions (Kim
et al., 2016; Khanna et al., 2019), and inﬂuence function (Koh