name
Key paragraph 1: Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams

birth_date
Key paragraph 1: Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams

nationality
KKey paragraph 1: Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams

age
Key paragraph 1: Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams

team
Key paragraph 1: Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams


position
Key paragraph 1: Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams


draft_pick
Key paragraph 7: Davis left college for the NBA after one season and was drafted as the first overall pick in the 2012 NBA draft by the New Orleans Hornets, and was selected that summer to play in the 2012 Olympics.


draft_year
Key paragraph 8: Davis left college for the NBA after one season and was drafted as the first overall pick in the 2012 NBA draft by the New Orleans Hornets, and was selected that summer to play in the 2012 Olympics.


college
Key paragraph 9: Davis played one season of college basketball for the Kentucky Wildcats, when he was first team All-American and the Consensus National Player of the Year.


NBA_championships
Key paragraph 10: In his first season with the Lakers, he won the 2020 NBA Finals. In 2021, he was named to the NBA 75th Anniversary team. He also won the inaugural NBA Cup in 2023 with the Lakers. Davis is widely regarded as one of the greatest power forwards of all time.
Davis played one season of college basketball for the Kentucky Wildcats, when he was first team All-American and the Consensus National Player of the Year


mvp_awards
Key paragraph 11: Anthony Davis For other people with the same name, see Anthony Davis (disambiguation).
Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams


olympic_gold_medals
Key paragraph 12: Davis was traded to the Lakers in 2019. He has won gold medals with the United States national team on their 2012 Olympic team, 2014 World Cup team and 2024 Olympic team, making him the first player in basketball history to win an NCAA title, NBA title, Olympic gold medal and FIBA_World_Cup.
High school career Born in Chicago, Davis grew up in the Englewood neighborhood and played high school basketball for Perspectives Charter School, where he had attended school since sixth grade


FIBA_World_Cup
Key paragraph 13: Davis was traded to the Lakers in 2019. He has won gold medals with the United States national team on their 2012 Olympic team, 2014 World Cup team and 2024 Olympic team, making him the first player in basketball history to win an NCAA title, NBA title, Olympic gold medal and FIBA_World_Cup.
High school career Born in Chicago, Davis grew up in the Englewood neighborhood and played high school basketball for Perspectives Charter School, where he had attended school since sixth grade


career_highest_score
Key paragraph 14: He was also an NBA All-Defensive team second team selection.
Season-ending injury (2015–2016) Davis during his 59-point, 20-rebound performance against the Detroit Pistons on February 21, 2016. His 59 points set a new franchise record. On July 9, 2015, Davis signed a five-year, $145 million contract extension with the Pelicans. On November 6, he tied his career-high of 43 points in a loss to the Atlanta Hawks


career_highest_rebounds
Key paragraph 15: The February 25 win against Vanderbilt clinched the 2011–12 SEC championship for Kentucky as Davis tallied a career-high 28 points as well as 11 rebounds and 5 blocked shots. ESPN's Andy Katz described his SEC title-clinching performance as the most complete performance of his career.
He was also selected as the SEC Player of the Year, SEC Freshman of the Year, SEC Defensive Player of the Year and a first team All-SEC honoree


career_highest_assists
Key paragraph 16: On February 5, Davis put up his third career triple-double with 26 points, 15 rebounds, and 11 assists in a 124–118 win over the Charlotte Hornets. He also became the first player in Lakers franchise history to put up at least 25 points on 75% shooting, 15 rebounds, and 10 assists in a game. On February 29, Davis posted 40 points, 15 rebounds, four assists and three blocks in a 134–131 overtime win over the Washington Wizards


career_average_score
Key paragraph 17: Anthony Davis For other people with the same name, see Anthony Davis (disambiguation).
Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams


career_average_rebounds
Key paragraph 18: Anthony Davis For other people with the same name, see Anthony Davis (disambiguation).
Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams


career_average_assists
Key paragraph 19: Anthony Davis For other people with the same name, see Anthony Davis (disambiguation).
Anthony Marshon Davis Jr. (born March 11, 1993), nicknamed "AD", is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He previously played for the New Orleans Pelicans. He plays the power forward and center positions. Davis is a nine-time NBA All-Star and has been named to four All-NBA First teams and five NBA All-Defensive teams

