name
key sentnce 1: Dick Surhoff Richard Clifford Surhoff Jr. (November 16, 1929 – May 1, 1987) was an American professional basketball player. Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college. He played for two seasons, one for the Knicks and the other for the Milwaukee Hawks. He would become an avid softball player in Long Island and would work for the town of Rye, New York, in their recreation department


birth_date
key sentnce 1: Dick Surhoff Richard Clifford Surhoff Jr. (November 16, 1929 – May 1, 1987) was an American professional basketball player. Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college. He played for two seasons, one for the Knicks and the other for the Milwaukee Hawks. He would become an avid softball player in Long Island and would work for the town of Rye, New York, in their recreation department


nationality
key sentnce 1: Dick Surhoff Richard Clifford Surhoff Jr. (November 16, 1929 – May 1, 1987) was an American professional basketball player. Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college. He played for two seasons, one for the Knicks and the other for the Milwaukee Hawks. He would become an avid softball player in Long Island and would work for the town of Rye, New York, in their recreation department


age
key sentnce 1: He would become an avid softball player in Long Island and would work for the town of Rye, New York, in their recreation department. He died due to a short illness in 1987.
Dick Surhoff was the father of professional baseball players Rick and B. J. Surhoff. He was also the grandfather of Brian and Colin Moran.


team
key sentnce 1: Dick Surhoff Richard Clifford Surhoff Jr. (November 16, 1929 – May 1, 1987) was an American professional basketball player. Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college. He played for two seasons, one for the Knicks and the other for the Milwaukee Hawks. He would become an avid softball player in Long Island and would work for the town of Rye, New York, in their recreation department
key sentnce 2: "He played for two seasons, one for the Knicks and the other for the Milwaukee Hawks."


position
key sentnce 1: "Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college." (No specific position mentioned)

draft_pick
key sentnce 1: "Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college." (No specific pick number mentioned)

draft_year
key sentnce 1: Dick Surhoff Richard Clifford Surhoff Jr. (November 16, 1929 – May 1, 1987) was an American professional basketball player. Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college. He played for two seasons, one for the Knicks and the other for the Milwaukee Hawks. He would become an avid softball player in Long Island and would work for the town of Rye, New York, in their recreation department


college
key sentnce 1: Dick Surhoff Richard Clifford Surhoff Jr. (November 16, 1929 – May 1, 1987) was an American professional basketball player. Surhoff was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the New York Knicks after a collegiate career at Long Island and John Marshall college. He played for two seasons, one for the Knicks and the other for the Milwaukee Hawks. He would become an avid softball player in Long Island and would work for the town of Rye, New York, in their recreation department


NBA_championships
key sentnce 1: (No championships mentioned)

mvp_awards
key sentnce 1: (No MVP awards mentioned)

olympic_gold_medals
key sentnce 1: (No Olympic medals mentioned)

FIBA_World_Cup
key sentnce 1: (No FIBA_World_Cup mentioned)

career_highest_score
key sentnce 1: (No career-high score mentioned)

career_highest_rebounds
key sentnce 1: (No career-high rebounds mentioned)

career_highest_assists
key sentnce 1: (No career-high assists mentioned)