name
key sentence 1: Dwayne Schintzius Dwayne Kenneth Schintzius (October 14, 1968 – April 15, 2012) was an American National Basketball Association (NBA) basketball player. He was born in Brandon, Florida and attended the University of Florida, where he helped lead the Florida Gators men's basketball program to its first three NCAA tournament appearances as an all-conference center


birth_date
key sentence 1: Dwayne Schintzius Dwayne Kenneth Schintzius (October 14, 1968 – April 15, 2012) was an American National Basketball Association (NBA) basketball player. He was born in Brandon, Florida and attended the University of Florida, where he helped lead the Florida Gators men's basketball program to its first three NCAA tournament appearances as an all-conference center


nationality
key sentence 1: Dwayne Schintzius Dwayne Kenneth Schintzius (October 14, 1968 – April 15, 2012) was an American National Basketball Association (NBA) basketball player. He was born in Brandon, Florida and attended the University of Florida, where he helped lead the Florida Gators men's basketball program to its first three NCAA tournament appearances as an all-conference center


age
key sentence 1: On April 15, 2012, Schintzius died at the Moffit Cancer Center from respiratory failure; he was 43 years old.
key sentence 2: "Dwayne Kenneth Schintzius (October 14, 1968 – April 15, 2012)..."


team
key sentence 1: "Schintzius was selected in the first round of the 1990 NBA draft (24th overall) by the San Antonio Spurs..."  
key sentence 2: "The Kings waived Schintzius during the 1991–92 season, and the New Jersey Nets signed him on October 1, 1992."  
key sentence 3: "He spent three seasons with the New Jersey Nets, a year with the Indiana Pacers, and then a year with the Los Angeles Clippers."  
key sentence 4: "... he played 16 games with the Boston Celtics in 1998–99 before retiring from the NBA."

position
key sentence 1: "Schintzius was known for his distinctive mullet-style haircut that he called 'the lobster', his sometimes abrasive behavior, and his performance as a Russian basketball player..."  
key sentence 2: "Together with teammate Toney Mack, Schintzius led the Eagles to a Class 4A state runner-up finish...he averaged 21.1 points and 17 rebounds per game, was a finalist for Florida's Mr. Basketball award..."

draft_pick
key sentence 1: Schintzius was selected in the first round of the 1990 NBA draft (24th overall) by the San Antonio Spurs, but chronic back problems reduced his effectiveness, and he played for six different NBA teams over ten seasons in the league, mainly as a reserve player.
Off the court, Schintzius was known for his distinctive mullet-style haircut that he called "the lobster", his sometimes abrasive behavior, and his performance as a Russian basketball player in the 1996 comedy film Eddie


draft_year
key sentence 1: Schintzius was selected in the first round of the 1990 NBA draft (24th overall) by the San Antonio Spurs, but chronic back problems reduced his effectiveness, and he played for six different NBA teams over ten seasons in the league, mainly as a reserve player.
Off the court, Schintzius was known for his distinctive mullet-style haircut that he called "the lobster", his sometimes abrasive behavior, and his performance as a Russian basketball player in the 1996 comedy film Eddie


college
key sentence 1: Dwayne Schintzius Dwayne Kenneth Schintzius (October 14, 1968 – April 15, 2012) was an American National Basketball Association (NBA) basketball player. He was born in Brandon, Florida and attended the University of Florida, where he helped lead the Florida Gators men's basketball program to its first three NCAA tournament appearances as an all-conference center


NBA_championships
key sentence 1: After missing the entire 1997–98 season due to injury, he played 16 games with the Boston Celtics in 1998–99 before retiring from the NBA. In eight NBA seasons, he appeared in 217 regular season games and started 33 of them.
He later came out of retirement to play in the minor leagues, and appeared in 35 games for the Mobile Revelers of the NBA's Development League in 2001–02
key sentence 2: "... Schintzius was regarded as a good NBA prospect due to his performance..."


mvp_awards
key sentence 1: "He also set the program's record for blocked shots..."  

olympic_gold_medals
key sentence 1: He last played for the Brevard Blue Ducks of the United States Basketball League (USBL) in 2003.
Off the court Schintzius played Ivan Radovadovitch, a fictional Georgian player for the New York Knicks, in the 1996 comedy movie Eddie, which starred Whoopi Goldberg as the team's female coach. Several other actual NBA players were also featured as members of the Knicks and other real NBA teams in the film


FIBA_World_Cup
key sentence 1: Several other actual NBA players were also featured as members of the Knicks and other real NBA teams in the film. He later appeared in local commercials.
At the trial of his former New Jersey Nets teammate Jayson Williams, he testified that he witnessed Williams kill his own dog with a shotgun.
Illness and death In November 2009, Schintzius was diagnosed with a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, a rare and often fatal form of the disease


career_highest_score
key sentence 1: "... he posted 15 points in a loss against the Bullets on January 10, 1997."

career_highest_rebounds
key sentence 1: Together with teammate Toney Mack, Schintzius led the Eagles to a Class 4A state runner-up finish as a sophomore, and another Final Four berth as a junior. As a senior, he averaged 21.1 points and 17 rebounds per game, was a finalist for Florida's Mr. Basketball award, and was recognized as a high school All-American by McDonald's and Parade magazine in 1986.
college career Schintzius received athletic scholarship offers from many top college programs


career_highest_assists
key sentence 1: He still holds Florida's career record for blocked shots (272), and is ranks sixth among the program's all time scoring leaders with 1,624 points.
Professional career Despite his personal issues, Schintzius was regarded as a good NBA prospect due to his performance on the court
