name
Key paragraph 1: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


birth_date
Key paragraph 2: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


nationality
Key paragraph 3: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


age
Key paragraph 4: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


team
Key paragraph 5: ...last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


position
Key paragraph 6: A 6'11" center–power forward, Foster was selected by the Washington Bullets in the second round (35th overall pick) of the 1990 NBA draft  


draft_pick
Key paragraph 7: A 6'11" center–power forward, Foster was selected by the Washington Bullets in the second round (35th overall pick) of the 1990 NBA draft  


draft_year
Key paragraph 8: A 6'11" center–power forward, Foster was selected by the Washington Bullets in the second round (35th overall pick) of the 1990 NBA draft  


college
Key paragraph 9: Foster earned his bachelor's degree in interdisciplinary studies from UTEP in 2011.  


NBA_championships
Key paragraph 10: During his long career, mainly spent as a reserve player, he reached the NBA Finals three times (twice with the Jazz and once with the Lakers) and won a championship ring with the Lakers in 2001.  


mvp_awards
Key paragraph 11: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


olympic_gold_medals
Key paragraph 12: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


FIBA_World_Cup
Key paragraph 13: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


career_highest_score
Key paragraph 14: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


career_highest_rebounds
Key paragraph 15: Foster helped lead the Miners to two WAC titles, and as a senior he averaged 15.0 points and 6.3 rebounds per game.  


career_highest_assists
Key paragraph 16: Foster helped lead the Miners to two WAC titles, and as a senior he averaged 15.0 points and 6.3 rebounds per game.  


career_average_score
Key paragraph 17: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  


career_average_rebounds
Key paragraph 18: Foster helped lead the Miners to two WAC titles, and as a senior he averaged 15.0 points and 6.3 rebounds per game.  


career_average_assists
Key paragraph 19: Greg Foster (basketball) Gregory Clinton Foster (born October 3, 1968) is an American professional basketball coach and former player who last served as assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  
