name
key sentence 1: Kermit Washington Kermit Alan Washington (born September 17, 1951) is an American former professional basketball player. Washington is best remembered for punching opposing player Rudy Tomjanovich during an on-court fight in 1977.  Washington was not a highly coveted player coming out of high school. He averaged four points per game during his senior season at Coolidge Senior High School


birth_date
key sentence 1: Kermit Washington Kermit Alan Washington (born September 17, 1951) is an American former professional basketball player. Washington is best remembered for punching opposing player Rudy Tomjanovich during an on-court fight in 1977.  Washington was not a highly coveted player coming out of high school. He averaged four points per game during his senior season at Coolidge Senior High School


nationality
key sentence 1: Kermit Washington Kermit Alan Washington (born September 17, 1951) is an American former professional basketball player. Washington is best remembered for punching opposing player Rudy Tomjanovich during an on-court fight in 1977.  Washington was not a highly coveted player coming out of high school. He averaged four points per game during his senior season at Coolidge Senior High School


age
key sentence 1: Kermit Washington Kermit Alan Washington (born September 17, 1951) is an American former professional basketball player. Washington is best remembered for punching opposing player Rudy Tomjanovich during an on-court fight in 1977.  Washington was not a highly coveted player coming out of high school. He averaged four points per game during his senior season at Coolidge Senior High School


team
key sentence 1: Under Newell's tutelage, Washington's game rapidly improved and he became a starter for several teams. He played for the Lakers, Boston Celtics, San Diego Clippers, Portland Trail Blazers and Golden State Warriors.
Early life Kermit Washington's mother Barbara graduated from Miner Teachers’ college (later subsumed into University of the District of Columbia); his father Alexander was an X-ray technician


position
key sentence 1: Washington was not a highly coveted player coming out of high school. He averaged four points per game during his senior season at Coolidge Senior High School. He improved rapidly once at American University, and became one of only seven players in NCAA history to average 20 points and 20 rebounds throughout the course of his career.
A big defensive forward, Washington was known for his ability to gather rebounds


draft_pick
key sentence 1: He averaged 9.2 points and 8.3 rebounds per game in ten National Basketball Association (NBA) seasons and played in the All-Star Game once. Washington was drafted by the Los Angeles Lakers with the fifth overall pick in the 1973 NBA draft. He played sparingly his first three seasons, and sought the help of retired basketball coach Pete Newell before his fourth season. Under Newell's tutelage, Washington's game rapidly improved and he became a starter for several teams


draft_year
key sentence 1: He averaged 9.2 points and 8.3 rebounds per game in ten National Basketball Association (NBA) seasons and played in the All-Star Game once. Washington was drafted by the Los Angeles Lakers with the fifth overall pick in the 1973 NBA draft. He played sparingly his first three seasons, and sought the help of retired basketball coach Pete Newell before his fourth season. Under Newell's tutelage, Washington's game rapidly improved and he became a starter for several teams


college
key sentence 1: Washington was not a highly coveted player coming out of high school. He averaged four points per game during his senior season at Coolidge Senior High School. He improved rapidly once at American University, and became one of only seven players in NCAA history to average 20 points and 20 rebounds throughout the course of his career.
A big defensive forward, Washington was known for his ability to gather rebounds


NBA_championships
key sentence 1: "Washington admits that he was terrified of West, and felt anxiety every time he made a mistake in front of him." (no championships mentioned)

mvp_awards
key sentence 1: "If cannot find, it is 0."

olympic_gold_medals
key sentence 1: He decided to stay at American with coach Young for his senior season because he felt he owed the school which had given him a chance when he was coming out of a difficult period in high school. He was offered an invite to try for the 1972 Olympic basketball team after the season, but did not make the squad.
Washington was one of the best players in the country going into his senior season


FIBA_World_Cup
key sentence 1: "If cannot find, it is 0."

career_highest_score
key sentence 1: The game set American University attendance records, and Washington felt light on his feet when he was introduced before the raucous crowd. He managed to score 40 points and in so doing, became just the seventh player to reach the 20/20 mark. He was thrown a party, and there was a campus wide celebration after the game. He graduated with a 3.37 GPA and a degree in sociology


career_highest_rebounds
key sentence 1: Coleman encouraged him to be more aggressive on the court, and Washington told him that it was not in his nature. Coleman admonished him, telling him he could not afford to be "cool" on the court given his talent level if he wanted to join the pro ranks. Washington was named an academic All-American his junior year. He averaged 21.0 points on 54.4 percent shooting and an NCAA-leading 19.8 rebounds in his junior season


career_highest_assists
key sentence 1: "If cannot find, it is 0." (no assists mentioned)