name
key sentence 1: "Rik Smits (born 23 August 1966), nicknamed 'the Dunking Dutchman' is a Dutch former professional basketball player..."

birth_date
key sentence 1: "Rik Smits (born 23 August 1966), nicknamed 'the Dunking Dutchman'..."

nationality
key sentence 1: "Rik Smits (born 23 August 1966), nicknamed 'the Dunking Dutchman' is a Dutch former professional basketball player..."

age
key sentence 1: "Rik Smits (born 23 August 1966), nicknamed 'the Dunking Dutchman' is a Dutch former professional basketball player..."

team
key sentence 1: John's at Madison Square Garden.
Smits was drafted second overall in the 1988 NBA draft by the Indiana Pacers, becoming the first Marist player to play in the NBA. His #45 jersey was later retired by Marist.citation needed NBA career He spent his entire professional career playing for the Indiana Pacers


position
key sentence 1: "The 7-foot-4-inch (2.24 m) center was drafted by the Pacers out of Marist college..."

draft_pick
key sentence 1: In 1987, he led the Red Foxes to 20 wins for the first time in its Division I history and another appearance in the NCAA tournament.
Smits briefly appeared in the 1988 film Coming to America during a scene filmed in 1987 while Marist played against St. John's at Madison Square Garden.
Smits was drafted second overall in the 1988 NBA draft by the Indiana Pacers, becoming the first Marist player to play in the NBA


draft_year
key sentence 1: In 1987, he led the Red Foxes to 20 wins for the first time in its Division I history and another appearance in the NCAA tournament.
Smits briefly appeared in the 1988 film Coming to America during a scene filmed in 1987 while Marist played against St. John's at Madison Square Garden.
Smits was drafted second overall in the 1988 NBA draft by the Indiana Pacers, becoming the first Marist player to play in the NBA


college
key sentence 1: "He started playing basketball at age 14 at PSV–Almonte in Eindhoven. Smits left for the United States in 1984, where he played for Marist college for four years."

NBA_championships
key sentence 1: Foot problems hobbled Smits for the majority of his career, and he retired at the conclusion of the Pacers' 1999–2000 season, after Indiana was defeated by the Los Angeles Lakers in the NBA Finals 4 games to 2.
Rik Smits visits Marist college on Alumni Day.After four surgeries to repair nerve damage to his feet, Smits underwent intensive back surgery in November 2009 to correct cracks in one joint that link his vertebrae


mvp_awards
key sentence 1: Relatively modest by NBA "superstar" standards, but the Dutchman endeared himself to Pacers fans with outstanding playoff performances, most notably in Game 4 of the 1995 Eastern Conference Finals, where he made a buzzer-beating shot to tie the series.
Smits was named to the Eastern Conference All-Star team in 1998, delivering ten points, seven rebounds and four assists, including a behind-the-back pass to New Jersey Nets forward Jayson Williams who followed immediately with a slam dunk.
Smits developed nerve damage in his feet from wearing tight shoes as a teenager


olympic_gold_medals
key sentence 1: Smits has also undergone arthroscopic surgery on his left knee and had bone chips removed from his left ankle.
Smits was selected to the Pacers' 40th Anniversary team, chosen by the fans. He ended up with the fourth most votes, trailing only Reggie Miller, Mel Daniels and Jermaine O'Neal.
National team career Smits has also played for the senior Netherlands national team


FIBA_World_Cup
key sentence 1: He ended up with the fourth most votes, trailing only Reggie Miller, Mel Daniels and Jermaine O'Neal.
National team career Smits has also played for the senior Netherlands national team. He played in the 1986 FIBA World Championship and EuroBasket 1987.
Life after the NBA After his retirement, Smits has devoted his time to collecting and racing vintage motocross motorcycles. On 30 November 2011, Smits was featured in Yahoo! Sports, about his formal participation in competitive motocross racing


career_highest_score
key sentence 1: "That season, on December 10, Smits scored a career-high 44 points during a 111–104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers."

career_highest_rebounds
key sentence 1: His #45 jersey was later retired by Marist.citation needed NBA career He spent his entire professional career playing for the Indiana Pacers. With the Pacers, Smits originally backed up Steve Stipanovich, but when Stipanovich suffered a career-ending injury, Smits ended up starting 71 games in his rookie year, averaging 11.7 points and 6.1 rebounds per game and earning All-Rookie First team honors


career_highest_assists
key sentence 1: Relatively modest by NBA "superstar" standards, but the Dutchman endeared himself to Pacers fans with outstanding playoff performances, most notably in Game 4 of the 1995 Eastern Conference Finals, where he made a buzzer-beating shot to tie the series.
Smits was named to the Eastern Conference All-Star team in 1998, delivering ten points, seven rebounds and four assists, including a behind-the-back pass to New Jersey Nets forward Jayson Williams who followed immediately with a slam dunk.
Smits developed nerve damage in his feet from wearing tight shoes as a teenager
