name
Key paragraph 1: For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player. He was a shooting guard in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for thirteen seasons during the late 1980s, 1990s, and early 2000s.  Maxwell played college basketball for the University of Florida, and led the Florida Gators to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance


birth_date
Key paragraph 2: For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player. He was a shooting guard in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for thirteen seasons during the late 1980s, 1990s, and early 2000s.  Maxwell played college basketball for the University of Florida, and led the Florida Gators to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance


nationality
Key paragraph 3: For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player. He was a shooting guard in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for thirteen seasons during the late 1980s, 1990s, and early 2000s.  Maxwell played college basketball for the University of Florida, and led the Florida Gators to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance


age
Key paragraph 4: For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player. He was a shooting guard in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for thirteen seasons during the late 1980s, 1990s, and early 2000s.  Maxwell played college basketball for the University of Florida, and led the Florida Gators to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance


team
Key paragraph 5: Maxwell was not a part of the Rockets' 1995 championship roster, quitting the team after a loss to Utah in the 1995 playoffs. Clyde Drexler, who Houston had acquired in February 1995, had taken away most of Maxwell's minutes and his starting spot. The decision to quit the team is something that Maxwell has been said to regret. He was waived by the Rockets on June 1995.
He signed with the Seattle SuperSonics prior to the 1999-2000 season


position
Key paragraph 6: For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player. He was a shooting guard in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for thirteen seasons during the late 1980s, 1990s, and early 2000s.  Maxwell played college basketball for the University of Florida, and led the Florida Gators to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance


draft_pick
Key paragraph 7: Maxwell played college basketball for the University of Florida, and led the Florida Gators to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance.  He was selected by the Denver Nuggets in the second round of the 1988 NBA draft and was immediately traded to the San Antonio Spurs. His longest and most successful NBA tenure was with the Houston Rockets


draft_year
Key paragraph 8: On June 28, 1988, Maxwell was drafted into the NBA by the Denver Nuggets, who traded him the same day to the San Antonio Spurs for a second-round pick the next year.


college
Key paragraph 9: Maxwell played college basketball for the University of Florida, and led the Florida Gators to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance.  He was selected by the Denver Nuggets in the second round of the 1988 NBA draft and was immediately traded to the San Antonio Spurs. His longest and most successful NBA tenure was with the Houston Rockets


NBA_championships
Key paragraph 10: Vernon Maxwell is an American former professional basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets.


mvp_awards
Key paragraph 11: Vernon Maxwell This article is about the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets. For the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Boston Celtics, see Cedric Maxwell. For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player


olympic_gold_medals
Key paragraph 12: Vernon Maxwell This article is about the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets. For the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Boston Celtics, see Cedric Maxwell. For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player


FIBA_World_Cup
Key paragraph 13: Vernon Maxwell This article is about the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets. For the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Boston Celtics, see Cedric Maxwell. For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player


career_highest_score
Key paragraph 14: Maxwell is among just nine players in NBA history to amass 30 points in a single quarter, accomplishing that feat en route to a 51-point outing on January 26, 1991, against Cleveland.
Early years Maxwell was born in Gainesville, Florida.  He attended Buchholz High School in Gainesville, and played for the Buchholz Bobcats high school basketball team.  As a senior, Maxwell was the Mr


career_highest_rebounds
Key paragraph 15: Vernon Maxwell This article is about the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets. For the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Boston Celtics, see Cedric Maxwell. For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player


career_highest_assists
Key paragraph 16: Vernon Maxwell This article is about the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets. For the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Boston Celtics, see Cedric Maxwell. For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player


career_average_score
Key paragraph 17: The 6-foot-4 guard averaged 20.2 points as a senior and still holds 15 Gators team records. He left school after four years as the Gators' all-time leading scorer (2,450) and the No. 2 scorer in Southeastern Conference history behind LSU's Pete Maravich


career_average_rebounds
Key paragraph 18: Vernon Maxwell This article is about the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets. For the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Boston Celtics, see Cedric Maxwell. For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player


career_average_assists
Key paragraph 19: Vernon Maxwell This article is about the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Houston Rockets. For the American basketball player who won two NBA championships with the Boston Celtics, see Cedric Maxwell. For the American football player, see Vernon Maxwell (American football).
Vernon Maxwell (born September 12, 1965) is an American former professional basketball player

