Showing 1 - 17 of 17 Results for author:"Linke, Russell D. (Russell Dean)"
Understanding and misconceptions in physical science among tertiary non-science background students. Final report. Stage III / Russell D. Linke, Merawyn I. Venz
Bedford Park, S. Aust. : Educational Research Unit, Flinders University of S.A., 1979
Papers presented at the fifth annual conference of the Higher Education Research and Development Society of Australasia, Flinders University of South Australia, Flinders Medical...
by Higher Education Research and Development Society of Australasia. Conference 1978 : Flinders University of South Australia)
Sydney : Higher Education Research and Development Society of Australasia, 1979
Education and the human environment : final report of an Australian Unesco Seminar held in Melbourne, May 26-30, 1975 / edited by Russell D. Linke ; with an introd. by Peter J....
[Canberra] : Australian National Commission for Unesco, 1976
by Australian Association for Research in Education. Conference, (1981 : Adelaide, S.A.)
Accountability in higher education / edited by Peter Sheldrake [and] Russell Linke
Report of a study group on the measurement of quality and efficiency in Australian higher education / [R.D. Linke ... et al.]
[Canberra] : Commonwealth Tertiary Education Commission, Evaluations and Investigations Program, [1984]
by Oertel, L. M
Performance indicators in higher education : report of a trial evaluation study / commissioned by the Commonwealth Department of Employment, Education and Training
A survey of provisionally and fully registered teachers on characteristics influencing teaching performance and the need for professional retraining / Deborah A. Blaber, Vivian...
Acne Treatment | Atlanta, GA | Plastic Surgery Centre of Atlanta
Most people in the United States have acne at some point in their lifetime. The condition is most often associated with puberty and adolescence, but many adults have acne as well. Led by board-certified plastic surgeon, Dr. David B. Brothers, Plastic Surgery Centre of Atlanta offers acne treatment for adolescents and adults in Atlanta, Sandy Springs, Decatur, Duluth, and Druid Hills.
In order to understand acne treatment, you should first understand what causes acne. Some people believe that acne is an indication of not properly cleaning the skin, so they try to control the blemishes with harsh soaps and astringent products. Acne, though, is a complex skin condition that is caused by a process more than one specific trigger.
Glands in the skin that produce oils are overactive.
The oils mix with impurities and dead skin cells.
The mixture plugs or clogs the pore.
Whiteheads or blackheads develop based on where the follicle is blocked.
Inside the clogged follicle, a certain type of bacteria starts to flourish.
The presence of bacteria causes inflammation, skin reddening and infection
Effective treatment for acne must address each stage of development.
If you have acne, our medical aestheticians will provide the ongoing support you need to reduce your blemishes and prevent outbreaks in the future. We will also adjust your treatment as needed when we see new problems with your skin.
Who is the Ideal Candidate for Acne Treatment?
Plastic Surgery Centre of Atlanta offers several types of acne treatments, so we can provide services to patients of all ages and skin types. Even if you have tried other methods for controlling your acne, we have just the right treatment for you.
What Do I Need to Do Before Having Acne Treatment?
An in-depth skin evaluation by one of our medical aestheticians is a great start to your acne treatment. You will learn about the specific factors that cause your acne and ways that you can control it at home. We will recommend a chemical peel or other procedure to keep your skin healthy and blemish-free.
What Should I Expect on the Day of My Acne Treatment?
Your medical aesthetician will describe the treatment during your consultation. On the day of your acne treatment procedure, you can simply relax and feel confident that your skin is in good hands.
How Long Does It Take to Perform Acne Treatment?
Most of our acne treatments take less than one hour. The details of your procedure are discussed during your consultation appointment.
The key to acne-free skin is finding the right balance of beneficial natural oils and clean skin. This can take some time, so we encourage you to be patient. Our medical aestheticians will monitor your progress, and can even explain why you may develop new blemishes. Additionally, your treatment will be adapted to any emerging improvements in your skin health.
Will I Have Scars After Getting Acne Treatment?
You may have some scars that are caused by your acne, but the treatment itself does not cause scars.
Results from acne treatment can take some time, so we recommend that you give your skin a few months.
How Long Will the Results of Acne Treatment Last?
With proper home care, you can have flawless skin for many years.
Additional Procedures to Enhance Your Acne Treatment Results
Treatment for acne scars as well as professional skin care products will enhance the results of your acne treatment.
How Much Does Acne Treatment Cost in Atlanta?
The cost of acne treatment varies by patient. After your consultation, we will provide a detailed cost that includes the applicable fees for Dr. Brothers and his surgical staff as well as any necessary medical supplies and your follow-up care. Financing is available through CareCredit® and Alphaeon™ Credit, and we also accept cash, checks, and most major credit cards.
Are you ready to finally win the battle against acne and blemishes? Now you can with acne treatment at Plastic Surgery Centre of Atlanta. We use the most advanced techniques for cosmetic and reconstructive surgery. Board-certified plastic surgeon, Dr. David B. Brothers, and his team offer acne treatment, emphasizing improved self-image and confidence of men and women in Atlanta, Sandy Springs, Decatur, Duluth, and Druid Hills. Contact us today to schedule your personal consultation!
Newly Updated Virtual Mental Health Training Equips College Students to Support Peers in Distress – Ascend Learning
Skip to content
Ascend Learning
Menu
About
Our Brands
Culture
Careers
Investors
Contact Us
News
Search
Search for:
‹ Back to News Page
Newly Updated Virtual Mental Health Training Equips College Students to Support Peers in Distress
July 28, 2020
Enhancements to Kognito’s higher education simulation better address the needs of today’s college students through skill-building.
NEW YORK, July 16, 2020 — As colleges and universities prepare to meet the mental health needs of students—who may or may not be on campus in the fall due to COVID-19—many are looking to virtual solutions. Kognito, a health simulation company, announced updates to its evidence-based virtual simulation At-Risk Mental Health for Students as a flexible online mental health training to help colleges improve students’ ability to succeed in 2020 and beyond.
The new 40-minute At-Risk simulation emphasizes building skills that promote positive coping, help-seeking, positive self-concept, and growth mindset. Students engage with virtual students to recognize signs of distress in themselves and peers, and practice effective communication techniques to give peers support. Colleges can add their own custom resources into the simulation to expand student knowledge of mental health support outside of the counseling center, through programming like wellness programs, peer support groups, and academic counseling.
Since its launch in 2010, over 300,000 students across over 300 institutions have used the original At-Risk for University Students simulation. During this time, numerous studies have shown the effectiveness of this simulation to increase conversations and help-seeking behaviors in students, including a recent randomized control trial conducted by Fordham University published in the Journal of the American Association of Suicidology. Universities often pair the simulation with its faculty counterpart, At-Risk for Faculty & Staff, which trains campus employees to talk with students about mental health and heightens awareness of their gatekeeping role within a community of care.
Updates to At-Risk are based on how higher education’s response to student mental health has evolved over the past decade. Students face more stress, anxiety, and depression than ever before, accounting for an average 30-40% increase in counseling center utilization from 2009 to 2015, while enrollment grew by only 5%. Meanwhile, students are entering college lacking coping and resiliency skills compared to classes before them.
Dr. Victor Schwartz, Chief Medical Officer at The Jed Foundation (JED), was one of the subject matter experts who partnered with Kognito to help develop the At-Risk simulation’s updates. Dr. Schwartz was joined by counseling and student services leaders involved in the development process to ensure that the updated content reflected the current needs of college students.
“We’ve seen the mental health needs of the college student change and evolve,” says Dr. Schwartz. “We know peer support on campus is a critical resource, since two-thirds of college students who are feeling suicidal will tell a friend first. Simulation technology is unique in that it can tailor content to individual students based on their existing knowledge, and give them a safe space to practice difficult conversations. Getting that confidence through a simulation like At-Risk is going to connect more students and support early intervention.”
“This evolution of At-Risk reflects the current needs of today’s college student. While there are many unknowns about the future, we know that there will be an essential need for students to learn about mental health, support, and resiliency,” says Dr. Glenn Albright, Kognito Co-Founder and Director of Research. “Analyzing the changes we’ve seen in student attitudes and behavior from data collected over ten years, plus in pairing subject matter expertise with cutting edge simulation technology, we’re confident that At-Risk Mental Health for Students will continue to make an impact on many lives through conversation and connection.”
As institutions continue to navigate this period of uncertainty, many are looking to At-Risk Mental Health for Students given its online accessibility for remote students and effective format that quickly builds essential skills around mental health and peer-to-peer support. More information on At-Risk Mental Health for Students is available on Kognito’s website.
About Kognito
Kognito is a health simulation company whose evidence-based simulations harness the power of role-play conversations with virtual humans to improve social, emotional, and physical health. Learn more at kognito.com.
The navel in the newborn will get wet | | Medical Online Journal | site dedicated to health and medicine.
Why does the navel get wet
Is it possible to bathe a child
How to process the navel
This article is intended for parents and especially for moms who care for newborn.
The first days after discharge from the hospital, you should carefully monitor for the state of the umbilical wound. After the birth of the baby, umbilical the cord is clamped with clamps at a distance of 5-7 cm from the tummy baby and crop. Around the fourth day of life, the cord dries and falls, leaving the umbilical wound, which is finally heals in about 2 to 3 weeks.
There are cases of a longer healing process, the wound may get wet and even fester. Therefore to care for the umbilical wound it is necessary to treat with a large share of responsibility.
In this article, we will tell you in detail how to care for umbilical wound, if it starts to get wet, by what means and drugs should be used. We will tell you about the reasons. weeping navel of a newborn and help solve the problem.
Why the navel gets wet
In the process of healing the umbilicus, there are small discharge without color and odor, this is normal. With proper wound treatment quickly tightened.
If she continues to get wet for a longer time, see a doctor immediately, in no case do self-medication. The pediatrician will pick you antiseptic drugs specifically for your baby.
Reasons why the navel gets wet:
The wound is infected;
The child has reduced immunity.
If you don't take emergency measures, umbilical sepsis may develop, and this is dangerous for the baby. The infection spreads instantly The account does not go for days, but for hours.
Until the navel heals, the baby should be washed very carefully, so as not to infect. Bath, slide for bathing (for newborns are preferable to use a tissue slide), The washcloth should be perfectly clean.
We use the individual soap and put it should separately from personal hygiene products of other family members.
After each bathing, wash the bath thoroughly with a cloth we wash the slides and washcloth with laundry soap and dry separately from other things. Immediately before bathing, we douse objects, intended for bathing the child, boiling water.
It's best to boil bathing water, you can disinfect water by adding a weak solution of potassium permanganate (potassium permanganate). The solution is prepared in a separate container to prevent ingress into water of undissolved manganese crystals that can cause burns skin.
Adding a decoction of a string or chamomile to the bathing water, be sure to filter the solution through several layers of fabric so that particles of grass and debris did not fall into the water.
Belly Button Tools
Navel gets wet
Processed navel
Pampers with a navel cutout
The main rule is the cleanliness of hands and all hygiene items;
While bathing, the crusts around the navel are softened, after bathing carefully remove them with a sterile cloth;
Non-soaking elements are treated with 3% hydrogen peroxide, digging into the umbilical fossa with a pipette, slightly pulling off the skin;
In no case do we peel off the crusts, wait until they get wet and only then we remove;
If hydrogen peroxide hissed and bubbled, it means in the wound pus is present. It's okay, hydrogen peroxide is good clean and disinfect the wound;
We clean the navel with a cotton swab, dry it with a napkin and process the brilliant green. Zelenka well dries the wound and accelerates healing process;
If the umbilical wound becomes wet, one treatment per day categorically not enough. Mandatory during the morning toilet look through the wound and, if necessary, process the same scheme;
We select the baby's clothes so that she doesn't injured the area around the navel. In no case do not seal navel. Free air access helps fast healing. We put pampers in such a way that he does not press on the navel. Right now in there are special diapers with a cutout for the navel;
The baby should not be spread on the tummy until the navel heals. Tension of the abdominal muscles can provoke a divergence of dried scar.
If we properly care for the umbilical wound with traditional methods with the help of brilliant green and hydrogen peroxide, but it does not heal and continues to get wet after three weeks, the pharmacy sold more potent drugs for treatment of the umbilical wound. Which drug is better to choose only a pediatrician can tell. Not worth doing self-medication.
1% alcohol solution of chlorophyllipt. it antimicrobial agent of plant origin. Possesses antibacterial (bacteriostatic and bactericidal) action, especially regarding staphylococci, including antibiotic resistant strains. It has anti-inflammatory act. Please note that if there are residues in the wound hydrogen peroxide chlorophyllipt precipitates. Therefore after washing the wound with hydrogen peroxide; its remains should be removed sterile isotonic sodium chloride solution.
Antibiotic Baneocin ointment or powder – combination antibacterial drug for treatment infectious and inflammatory diseases. It perfectly eliminates source of infection (microorganism), accelerates the healing of the umbilical wounds and reduces the severity of the inflammatory process.
Observing all safety precautions we will receive very soon a pretty little navel with which your baby will live his whole life.
Hunting for the cause of The Rain Man's split brain | SingHealth
Home > news > awards > hunting for the cause of the rain mans split brain
Hunting for the cause of The Rain Man's split brain 2019-03-19T10:16:00.0000000Z
Hunting for the cause of The Rain Man's split brain
2/26/2019 12:24:00 AM | Tomorrow's Medicine
In the movie Rain Man, the lead character played by Dustin Hoffman was based on a real person, who was portrayed as a savant. Although, limited in his abilities to interact socially, he had phenomenal memory and recall, which were attributed to his "split brain". Now, decades later, the cause for split brain has been found … by a SingHealth researcher
Mr Laurence Kim Peek, could not button his shirt or operate a light switch, but could, reportedly, recall the contents of 12,000 books. His vast memory was compared to that of a computer.
Born in 1951, he was thought to be autistic. However, today's research reveals that he had a rare genetic disorder called developmental split brain syndrome (DSBS), where the right and left sides of the brain do not talk to each other. That was why, as a renowned mega savant, he could not do simple things, but was adept at extraordinary feats of memory.
Mr Peek, who inspired Hoffmann's character in Rain Man, died at age 58. He was widely studied, but there has not been a precise explanation of his abilities and disabilities for five decades.
A SingHealth global discovery
Pinning down the genetic condition of DSBS was the work of Dr Saumya Jamuar, Senior Consultant, Genetics Service, KK Women's and Children's Hospital (KKH).
Under the supervision of Prof Christopher Walsh and A/Prof Timothy Yu at Harvard, Dr Saumya led a study on this condition. He recently published a paper "Biallelic mutations in Human DCC cause development split-brain syndrome" in Nature Genetics, which was selected for the American Society of Human Genetics Trainee Spotlight award.
The finding, a huge step forward, has wider implications for commoner diseases such as autism, Asperger syndrome, squint and scoliosis.
Dr Saumya at work in his lab in Singapore. His breakthough came after he found three families from different parts of the world with similar features of developmental split brain syndrome. Photo: KK Women's and Children's Hospital.
When the two sides don't converse
Developmental split brain syndrome occurs when a child is born with missing connections between the left and right sides of the brain. Those affected cannot look sideways, they have mirror movements (e.g. when the right hand goes up, the left hand goes up too) and scoliosis (curved spine).
In a developing fetus, the neurons move across the midline to connect the two sides of the brain. The bulk of this happens through an organ called corpus callosum, which can be compared to a bridge. Each neuron going through this "bridge", has to have sensors (called DCC receptors), which guide it in the correct direction. Patients with DSBS are missing these sensors. Hence, the neurons cannot cross the bridge, and instead, stay on the same side. This leads to the split brain phenomenon.
There are less than 15 cases scattered globally. His breakthrough came when he found the first three families – from Texas, the Middle East and the Harvard database – with features of DSBS.
He said the discovery is just the tip of the iceberg. "There's still a lot to learn, both for DSBS as well as in human genetics. There are 20,000 genes and we only know 7,700 of them. But this work has given us the mechanism to study other families with rare or novel genetic conditions. If we can start answering why these patients have the disease, we can look towards building tools to cure them."
Next – gene editing?
In the past four years, KKH set up the Singapore Undiagnosed Disease Programme in collaboration with A* STAR (Agency for Science, Technology and Research) and the National University Hospital. "So far we've studied 324 families and diagnosed 125 of them. In addition, we have identified four new genetic disorders" said Dr Saumya.
Dr Saumya said, in the field of genomics, people are talking about curing genetic diseases with gene editing.
"Once we have the genetic diagnosis we can attempt to edit it back to normal. But gene editing is in its infancy and caution is needed lest it goes down a slippery slope of designer babies. However, it is safe to say that one day, for medical indications, it may be possible to edit the gene to cure the disease. And that possibility is exciting, not just for me, but also for my patients."
Awards;Research;Academic Medicine;Global Health
; ; ; ; Internal; ; SingHealth;KK Women's and Children's Hospital; Article; Tomorrow's Medicine; ; ; ; ; Awards;Research;Academic Medicine;Global Health
How To Obtain Pain Relief From Sciatica Through Exercise | Bauman Chiropractic
How To Obtain Pain Relief From Sciatica Through Exercise
News | January 4, 2017 by admin | 0 Comments
Sciatica (or sciatic neuritis) is a set of symptoms arising from the compression or irritation of the sciatic nerves or nerve roots. It is experienced as pain in the lower back and buttocks and sometimes in the legs and feet, and may be accompanied by tingling sensations or numbness, muscle weakness and restricted leg movement. The pain may be felt to "travel" down the leg and is commonly felt only on one side of the body.
If you suffer from sciatica, it is important to remember the term "set of symptoms." This means that it is a description of the effects rather than a diagnosis or exact description of what causes them.
Sciatica can be caused by several different conditions. For this reason it is important to see your chiropractor to get an accurate diagnosis to determine the actual cause of the symptoms in your case. Any treatment regime or set of prescribed exercises will depend on the exact nature of this diagnosis, and cannot be generalized.
Following an examination, your chiropractor may recommend a series of chiropractic adjustments to treat the underlying structural cause of the condition but will also prescribe a series of exercises to relieve the pain by stretching tight muscles that may be contributing to it by maintaining pressure on the sciatic nerves.
Exercise is often felt by the sciatica sufferer to be counter-intuitive because the pain can be so severe that one is tempted to take painkillers and go to bed and rest until it subsides. But in reality one of the best forms of self-treatment is exercise, either in the form of walking or gentle stretching movements.
The exercise will strengthen the muscle groups that support your lower spine and back, stimulate blood flow to the area to promote healing, and cause the production of endorphins, which are natural painkillers.
Exercises to relieve the symptoms of sciatica may vary depending on the specific cause of the condition but a few general observations can be made about them. Most sets of sciatica exercises involve strengthening the abdominal muscles which better support the spine and keep it properly aligned when they are strong.
Sciatica exercises also often include gentle stretching of the hamstring muscles. Once the initial sciatica pain has been treated via a chiropractic adjustment, walking is often a great form of self-treatment because it contributes not only to healing by promoting blood flow but also strengthens the muscles that support the lower back.
In some cases, "press ups" (lying on your stomach and pressing your upper body up with your arms, similar to the chataranga or "up dog" pose in yoga) can be beneficial.
"Curl ups" (lying on your back with your knees bent and gently curling the upper body up and holding the position for a few seconds) can also strengthen the abdominal muscles and are easier than traditional "sit ups."
Leg raises (lying on your back and gently lifting first one leg and then the other and holding it for a few seconds) can also be effective. If your sciatic pain is severe, you may find these and other exercises easier to perform in water.
With all sets of exercises used to treat the symptoms of sciatica and relive its pain, there are three things to remember. First, as mentioned above, don't start a generic set of these exercises without consulting your chiropractor to determine the exact cause of your symptoms. Second, "easy does it." Don't strain or try to attain or hold any position that is uncomfortable for you. And third, be consistent; the benefits of exercise for sciatic pain depend on doing them regularly.
Tags: back injury, back pain, bauman, bauman chiropractic, chiropractic, chiropractic care, exercise, Featured, health, healthy, pain, sciatic, sciatica, stretching
Plan display "epidemic, infectious disease and public sanitation"/Saga
Plan display "epidemic, infectious disease and public sanitation"
The last update date: June 26, 2016
[display period: for from Wednesday, October 3, 2012 to Friday, December 28]
Display scenery
Main showpiece introduction
Document of proposal of cholera theory distribution from Saga Hospital is attached, but it is written down in notification that we want to distribute thing which translated the point to comrade (medical doctor) if and when Emergencies of lifesaving becomes there if what Simon edites cholera theory between medical examinations and entrusted Saga Hospital with, the statement watch with keen interest as it was thing deserving.
From the beginning of the Meiji era to the end of the war, it was the police that played an active part in the spot of hygiene administration including epidemic countermeasures. To quarantine officer, we appointed police sergeant and officer quarantine inspection committee member, and the prefecture put inspector on the duties, but there was person who the person infected, and died at the post.
We ask other prefectures expense required for public health center setting on installing in this prefecture and take answer from 10 numerical prefectures. Karatsu public health center which became the prefecture's first health center established in 1938.
Fempro 2.5mg (10 pills) - Hulk Body
HomeShopAnti EstrogenFempro 2.5mg (10 pills)
Home / Shop / Anti Estrogen / Fempro 2.5mg (10 pills)
2.5mg (10 pills) of Letrozole Cipla
Category: Anti Estrogen Tag: Letrozole Product ID: 227
Femrpo containing the active ingredient letrozole is considered a non-steroid type aromatase inhibitor. It works by preventing the aromatase enzyme from converting androstenedione and testosterone into estrogen. It can be used to treat and prevent breast cancer in postmenopausal women, slowing the growth of some types of breast tumors that require estrogen for growth.
Fempro 2.5 mg tablets side effects
Tell your doctor or pharmacist as soon as possible if you do not feel well while you are taking Fempro 2.5 mg (Letrozole tablets). This can have undesirable side effects in some people, in addition to its beneficial effects. All medicines have side effects. Sometimes they are serious, most of the time they are not. You may need treatment if you get some of the side effects. Do not pay attention to this list of possible side effects. You can not experience any of them. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to answer any questions you may have.
Immediately notify your doctor or go to an accident and emergency situation at the nearest hospital if you notice any of the following:
Signs that blood clots can form, for example, sudden severe headache, sudden loss of coordination, blurred vision or sudden loss of vision, slurred speech, numbness or tingling in the hands or feet, painful swelling in the calves or thighs, pain in the chest, difficult Breathing, coughing.
Constant "flu-like" symptoms (chills, fever, sore throat, mouth sores, swollen glands, fatigue or lack of energy), which can be a sign of a blood problem.
Stasis or a feeling of heaviness in the chest or pain radiates from the chest to your hands or shoulders, neck, teeth or jaw, stomach or back (angina sign or heart attack)
Numbness or weakness in the arm or leg or any part of the body, loss of coordination, change in vision, severe headache, nausea, difficulty in speaking or breathing (a sign of a stroke).
Introducing HDRUK's Innovation Gateway - the next generation health data resource | Ellarion Cybernetics Blog
BiŌkeanós
Introducing HDRUK's Innovation Gateway - the next generation health data resource
Health and clinical data is a central part of understanding the reality of dealing with diseases. The need for it only increases while the access-related challenges make it complicated to acquire. Thankfully due to a recent effort by HDRUK, more and more datasets can be shared.
We are delighted to announce that BiŌkeanós now contains a new metasource: Health Data Research Innovation Gateway. It aims to make disjoint research institutions and NHS trusts' data available for research and innovation purposes. It contains hundreds of datasets related to health - from audits, system measurements, questionnaires, impact and disease assessments, clinical records, pathology, genetics to biobanks.
It is a dynamic, quickly growing resource, backed by a large consortium and aimed at streamlining and unifying the access to the disjoint health data scattered across multiple institutions. It creates a blooming ecosystem of data, accessibility patterns and tools. Powered by a powerful API, it is a robust platform with a solid technological backbone, driving the future of medical data in the UK.
Innovation Gateway covers an extensive range of diseases and subjects due to co-operation with specialised institutions sharing their collections. For example, BREATHE provides several datasets centred around respiratory disorders, from the standard of care of chronic pulmonary diseases, pneumonia prevention, infection and cancer detection to functional genetics of lungs. Similarly, INSIGHT specialising in eye health provides images from London's Moorfields Eye Hospital that shed light on conditions such as glaucoma or diabetic macular oedema.
The interconnectedness of life/natural sciences and health/clinical data is a vast subject. As a quick summary - health and clinical data is fundamental in establishing the properties of diseases and the populations they affect. It helps to find the suitable condition and the right patients to treat.
Health study data is not only crucial to furthering the understanding of the disease, such as symptoms and epidemiology but it also:
Is paramount in diagnostics
Helps validate a therapeutic strategy
Assesses the cost and value that can be gained with a treatment
Determines prevalence and severity of particular phenotypes
Since particular studies are often performed at specific locations, they can contribute to the greater diversity based on the patients (e.g. location-specific, underrepresented groups, lifestyle factors).
There is also a separate trend that escalated in the COVID-19 pandemic, to monitor and detect the progression of diseases in real-time, which can include -omics components, e.g. a consortium effort that included Genomics England.
HDRUK's Innovation Gateway joins 5 other metasources already used by BiŌkeanós in addition to our curated list. After bringing in over 600 additional new datasets, the platform now links together over 6000 biomedical sources. To our knowledge, BiŌkeanós is the largest dedicated, open biomedical data collection and discovery tool. It allows for another step in our mission to deliver as much valuable data as possible to help patients in the age of Artificial Intelligence.
Interested in exploring the data? Take a look.
Looking for help with biomedical data processing? Have a glimpse at engine - Arachne.ai or contact us directly.
Childhood obesity epidemic in the United States aggravated by the Covid-19 pandemic – Naaju
Home/Health/Childhood obesity epidemic in the United States aggravated by the Covid-19 pandemic
Childhood obesity epidemic in the United States aggravated by the Covid-19 pandemic
In a year filled with so much tragedy and suffering, it would be easy to shed a few extra pounds in a child or think of weight gain as an issue to be addressed once the pandemic has subsided. But the weight gain we see in children is neither insignificant nor expected.
The specifics leading to weight gain vary. Sometimes it's daddy, who recently took over the cooking and maybe overfeeds the kids; other times, it was Grandmother who spoiled them now that they were at home; for more others, favorite sports are no longer an option, or they have stopped coming out altogether.
Through the many stories we hear in our practices, One fact remains: the pandemic created the perfect conditions for children to gain weight, and they did.
What we see in our offices – which primarily serve black and brown children – was predictable. As a result of what has become an unnecessarily protracted crisis, countless children in this country have been denied the nutrition and physical activity opportunities they previously received in school.
The loss of structured in-person learning in turn disrupted other aspects of children's lives – what used to be a bedtime at 8 p.m. on a school night became 9 or more, until then. that there is no more bedtime. As parents juggled working from home and supervising e-learning, meal times changed, portion sizes got larger, and snacks became more common.
The changes in every household have occurred amid record unemployment and skyrocketing food insecurity. In our practices, we have seen food budgets gradually tighten and families have turned to cheaper, higher calorie and more processed foods in an attempt to feed their children.
All of this – unemployment, food insecurity, deprivation of in-person learning, and the disruption that comes with it – has disproportionately affected black and brown communities.
It is the children of these same communities who had higher obesity rates before the onset of the pandemic and who are most at risk of its lifelong consequences. In the United States, 18.5% of all children between the ages of 2 and 19, or 13.7 million children, are currently obese. For Hispanic children, the prevalence of obesity is 25.8%, compared to 22% for non-Hispanic blacks and 14.1% for non-Hispanic white children, according to the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. .
Moreover, while Covid-19 has generally spared the majority of the pediatric population, it is children who suffer from obesity who are most at risk of its serious complications, including intubation and admission to care. intensive.
Beyond Covid-19, the growing list of complications from childhood obesity is known to include diabetes, fatty liver disease, high cholesterol, chronic kidney disease, musculoskeletal problems, and decreased blood loss. self-esteem, among others.
Previously healthy children are sick
While these may appear to be distant consequences downstream, they are manifesting themselves right now. Over the past few months, our clinics have filled with previously healthy children who now have high blood pressure, high markers of pre-diabetes and diabetes, children who have deliberately started skipping meals after having noted their own weight gain and children for whom the extra pounds resulted in new sleep apnea.
The American Academy of Pediatrics recently urged its more than 60,000 pediatrician members to continue to screen, counsel and treat obesity as it arises, even during a pandemic, through interim counseling. But pediatricians cannot reverse this crisis alone.
As we begin to help families build healthier habits, an increase in mental health issues such as depression and anxiety in children and their parents, as well as the same disruptions that led children to take weight in the first place, are obese. more difficult to process.
Mental health issues make it worse
Depression can make meal planning very difficult, just as anxiety can sometimes lead to overeating. And recommending that a child eat more vegetables is an impossibility for a mother who doesn't have access to fresh fruits and vegetables and just tries to feed hungry bellies and keep the lights on; and physical activity indoors can be a Herculean task for a family of eight living in one room.
Like many problems, the childhood obesity epidemic has been in development for a long time and is worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, as we begin to envision a post-pandemic world, we have the opportunity to make significant improvements in childhood obesity and hence the long-term health of a generation.
Now is the time to support national health recommendations with the financial help parents need to implement them. Schools will also need improved and sustainable funding if they are to provide healthy school meals to the many children who spent most of 2020 at home. We also need to find ways to keep afloat the many small primary care offices across the country that provide primary care services and act as safety nets for the most vulnerable among us.
Although a vaccine will soon be available for many people and the end of the pandemic seems more tangible, the consequences of the disruption of life will remain with us for years to come. The health of a generation of children depends on our foresight, our investments and our commitment now.
