Generic Amaryl | Glador 1 mg, 2 mg & 4 mg Tablets | Glimepiride Side Effects
Home >> Diabetes >> Generic Amaryl (glador By Lupin)
Generic Amaryl (glador By Lupin)
Active Ingredient : Glimepiride 1/2/4mg
1mg x 30 pcs USD 18.95 USD 0.63 -
1mg x 60 pcs USD 23.50 USD 0.39 USD 14.40
1mg x 120 pcs USD 42.50 USD 0.35 USD 33.60
2mg x 30 pcs USD 19.95 USD 0.66 -
2mg x 60 pcs USD 26.50 USD 0.44 USD 13.20
2mg x 120 pcs USD 37.50 USD 0.31 USD 42.00
4mg x 30 pcs USD 23.50 USD 0.78 -
4mg x 60 pcs USD 29.95 USD 0.50 USD 16.80
4mg x 120 pcs USD 44.95 USD 0.37 USD 49.20
Generic Amaryl (Glador Tablets) - Product Information
Generic Amaryl (Glador tablets) is used to treat Non-insulin-dependent (type II) diabetes, whenever blood sugar levels cannot be adequately controlled by diet, physical exercise and weight reduction alone. Glador tablets can also be used in combination with an oral antidiabetic containing metformin or with insulin.
Glador tablets are manufactured by Lupin Limited in the strengths of 1 mg, 2 mg and 4 mg . We also have in stock Generic Glucophage (Glycomet Tablets) which is also used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
We supply original Glador tablets manufactured by Lupin Limited.
Manufacturer of Glador Tablets
Active Ingredient present in Glador Tablets
The active ingredient present in Glador Tablets is Glimepiride. Each Glador tablet contains 1 mg, 2 mg or 4 mg of Glimepiride.
Uses of Generic Amaryl (Glador by Lupin)
Glimepiride tablets (Generic Amaryl) is used together with diet and exercise to treat type 2 diabetes. Insulin or other diabetes medicines are sometimes used in combination with this medicine if needed. This medication helps your body respond better to insulin produced by your pancreas.
Glimepiride (Glador Tablets) - Dosage
The recommended starting dose is one 1 mg Glimepiride tablet (Generic Amaryl) once daily. If required, the daily dose of Glador tablets can be increased based on regular blood sugar monitoring, and should be gradual, i.e., at intervals of one to two weeks, and carried out stepwise, as follows: 1mg - 2mg - 3mg - 4mg - 6mg. The normal dose range in patients with well controlled diabetes is 1 to 4 mg Generic Glimepiride tablet daily.
How to Use Glimepiride (Glador Tablets)
Take Glimepiride tablets exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Do not take in larger or smaller amounts or for longer than recommended.
This medicine is usually taken once a day with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. Follow your doctor's instructions. Take with a full glass of water. Know the signs of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) and how to recognize them: headache, hunger, weakness, sweating, tremor, irritability, or trouble concentrating.
Your dose needs may change if you are ill, if you have a fever or infection, or if you have surgery or a medical emergency. Ask your doctor how to adjust your dose if needed. Do not change your medication dose or schedule without your doctor's advice. Your blood sugar will need to be checked often, and you may need other blood tests at your doctor's office. Visit your doctor regularly.
It is only part of a complete program of treatment that may also include diet, exercise, weight control, foot care, eye care, dental care, and testing your blood sugar. Follow your diet, medication, and exercise routines very closely. Changing any of these factors can affect your blood sugar levels.
Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. Skip the missed dose if it is almost time for your next scheduled dose. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose. Use this medicine regularly to get the most benefit. Get your prescription refilled before you run out of medicine completely.
Glimepiride Tablets (Glador) Contraindications
Glimepiride tablets are contraindicated in the following cases:
Glador tablets must not be used in patients hypersensitive to glimepiride, other sulfonylureas, other sulfonamides, or to any of the inactive ingredients present in Glador tablets.
Glimepiride Tablets are not suitable for the treatment of insulin-dependent (type I) diabetes mellitus (e.g., for the treatment of diabetics with a history of ketoacidosis), of diabetic ketoacidosis, or of diabetic precoma or coma.
The common side effects occuring in 1% or more of the patients undergoing treatment with Glimepiride tablets are Dizziness, Asthenia, Headache and Nausea.
• severe skin rash, itching, redness, or irritation
• pale skin, easy bruising or bleeding, fever, unusual weakness
• upper stomach pain, low fever, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes)
• nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, feeling restless or irritable, confusion, hallucinations, muscle pain or weakness, and/or seizure
• dizziness, headache, tired feeling
• mild nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, diarrhea
• increased skin sensitivity to sunlight
An overdose can cause life-threatening hypoglycemia. Symptoms of severe hypoglycemia include extreme weakness, confusion, tremors, sweating, trouble speaking, blurred vision, nausea, fainting, and seizure (convulsions).
Warnings & Precautions When Using Generic Amaryl (Glador by Lupin)
You should not use Generic Amaryl tablets if you are allergic to Glimepiride (the active ingredient) or if you are in a state of diabetic ketoacidosis (call your doctor for treatment with insulin).
To make sure you can safely take Glador pills, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions:
• an allergy to sulfa drugs
• an enzyme deficiency called glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD)
• if you are under-nourished
Glimepiride Tablets and Alcohol
Avoid drinking alcohol. It lowers blood sugar and may interfere with your diabetes treatment. Hypoglycemia is more likely to take place when alcohol is ingested, when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when more than one glucose-lowering drug is used.
Glimepiride Tablets During Pregnancy
Glimepiride has beeen classified by the US FDA as Pregnancy Category C. This medicine may be harmful to an unborn baby. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies conducted in pregnant women.
To avoid risk of harm to the child, Generic Amaryl must not be taken during pregnancy; a changeover to insulin is necessary.Patients planning a pregnancy must inform their doctor, and should change over to insulin.
Glimepiride Tablets During Breastfeeding
Although it is not known whether Glimepiride is excreted in breast milk, other sulfonylureas are excreted in human milk. Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants can exist, and because of the effects on nursing animals, Generic Amaryl should be discontinued in nursing mothers.
Ingestion of Glimepiride with the breast milk may harm the child. Therefore, Glimepiride tablets must therefore not be administered to nursing women, and a changeover to insulin or discontinuation of breast-feeding is necessary. Do not use this Glimepiride tablets without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
Buy Glimepiride 1 mg, 2 mg & 4 mg Tablets (Glador Pills) Online at Only $0.35 per Pill
You can buy Generic Amaryl tablets online from Clear Sky Pharmacy at a cheap price. Glador tablets 1 mg, 2 mg and 4 mg pills, manufactured by Lupin Limited, India are supplied in a blister strip of 10 tablets. The 1 mg tablets cost only $0.35 per unit when you place an order for 120 tablets.
RADAR - EuroRAP
The Slovenia-based European Institute of Road Assessment (EIRA) partners with EuroRAP and has signed the contract for its work on a €2.15 million project over 3-years to improve road infrastructure safety across 12 countries in the Danube region.
Training courses and study visits for road safety professionals will guide project partners through the steps from analyzing safety on their road network to defining road safety solutions that are cost effective and likely to generate the highest reduction of crashes and casualties.
RADAR aims to contribute to closing the gap between policy and practice in road safety with collaboration between government and highway authorities for casualty reduction and the operational engineering activities required to deliver them. In that sense, during the RADAR's 3-year performance, the project will address national public authority, general public, interest groups and non-governmental organizations, international organizations, professionals and especially road safety engineers.
Pilot Actions are implemented in 8 countries (Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, Serbia, Czech Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Moldova) in order to test the best practices agreed beforehand.
Databases on Pilot Actions.
Olivera Rozi, E-mail: [email protected]
Official RADAR project website: http://www.interreg-danube.eu/approved-projects/radar
Project objectives: http://www.interreg-danube.eu/approved-projects/radar/section/project-objectives
Newsletters: http://www.interreg-danube.eu/approved-projects/radar/campaigns
Promotion material: http://www.interreg-danube.eu/approved-projects/radar/section/promotion-material
Typerepublic is an independent type foundry based in Barcelona dedicated to the design and distribution of digital fonts. Founded in 2003, Typerepublic offers custom font design that responds to customer needs and identity requirements. It offers any type design solutions, from desktop to web fonts.
Author Notes: This pizza is sold at stands throughout Nice all year round. It is a classic and is very easy to make. The secret is to caramelize the onions by cooking them slowly before spreading them on the crust. —ChefJune
You can refine this pastry a bit by giving 2 more turns to the pastry, but 4 is enough for pizza. Roll the dough as thinly as possible (aim for 1/8-inch). Fold the pastry into quarters, or roll it on your rolling pin to transfer it to a flat pizza pan (or large baking tin) and cut a 14-or 15-inch round. Let the dough rest for 15 minutes before adding the toppings.
Over medium-low heat, warm the 4 tablespoons olive oil, then add onions and cook until very soft and translucent. Cool slightly. Arrange the onions all over the pissaladière. Sprinkle the Swiss cheese atop the onions. You may wish to use more than 1/2 cup. Make a design with anchovy fillets and olives. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan, a sprinkling of dried oregano, and drizzle with additional olive oil.
FWIW: DuFour's frozen puff pastry (all butter) works just fine if you've neither the time nor the inclination to make even the Rough Puff. ;)
Remember savoring & thoroughly enjoying this in Grasse, near Nice! fell in love with caramelized onions all over again!
Me too! I can eat this any day of the week, any time of year. If it wasn't so friggin' hot here, I'd make it for dinner tonight. ;)
I love pissaladiere! It really is the quintessential street food. And this looks like a great recipe...
could you use a regular pizza cust rather than puff pastry or rough puff pastry? i am quite adept at making that dough and don't hae the desire to spend the time and butte for a puff pastry workout
Author Notes: This is my dad's recipe. It goes back as long as I can remember. It goes great alongside rice pilaf, polenta, greens, in a sandwich, you name it. It wears many hats. - funklight —funklight
Food52 Review: This is a super-tender marinated grilled flank steak loaded with Asian aroma and flavors; soy, ginger, garlic, a hint of sesame oil. In fact, all the ingredients added a distinct layer of flavor that made this so delicious. I am not a beer drinker and wondered how it would blend in. It does perfectly, it doesn’t over power the taste, just enhances it. I boiled, to reduce the excess marinade, and served it on the side with grilled mushrooms and a ramen noodle slaw. Raves from all, who also loved the name -- Beersteak! With leftovers that make incredible salads and sandwiches, this is a fabulous recipe. - lapadia —lapadia
Place steak in a gallon-sized freezer bag or large nonreactive container with a tight lid. Pour marinade over steak, lifting it to allow marinade to reach the underside. Refrigerate overnight, turning steak over occasionally.
Prepare a grill or large cast iron skillet over high heat. Sear steak for 4 minutes each side for medium-rare. Remove and tent with foil for 5 to 10 minutes before slicing on the bias, against the grain, about 1/4" thick.
The prevalence of obesity is high and increasing in Europe and worldwide. The scale of the challenge posed by the obesity epidemic calls for collaboration across borders, disciplines, and institutions. A Danish consultation process has identified key research challenges, opportunities and priorities for the future Danish and European research.
To combat the increasing challenge of obesity, a Danish consultation process was initiated in the spring 2011. The purpose of the consultation process was to identify key research challenges, opportunities and priorities for Denmark and Europe in the field of obesity research in this decade, by mobilizing the strong Danish research initiatives and groups in the field of obesity and related research areas.
The ambition of the process was to explore and illustrate how the challenge of obesity can be met by cross-disciplinary research approaches in close collaboration between scientists and stakeholders; and how investment in obesity research will pave the way for societal and industrial innovation. The consultation process addressed the full specter of health promotion, prevention, diagnostics and treatment in the field of obesity.
The Danish consultation process has resulted in two documents - a report with a broad range of research ideas, based on inputs from leading researchers in multiple disciplines and a summary document that sums up the process and the main priorities. Both documents can be downloaded in the right column of this page.
Sustainable messages on healthy choices and complementary technologies and approaches to support the consumer.
Healthy food products and novel concepts for physical activity which are accepted, attractive and chosen by the consumers.
Early diagnostic and target intervention for individuals prone to develop obesity and related diseases.
Ways to avoid stigmatization and counterproductive reactions of regulations, recommendations, and interventions aiming at tackling obesity.
Platforms for monitoring and predicting obesity, supporting and follow implementation, prevention and treatment actions.
Markers of susceptibility obesity-related diseases, refining phenotypic characterization and reclassification of obesity.
Addressing adverse effects and dilemmas in classifying ’high risk’ individuals towards implementing a ‘tailor-made’ approach.
Mapping social and societal factors complicating the healthy lifestyles and develop novel real life interventions and exploring potentials of ICT in optimizing interventions from individual through population level.
Novel interdisciplinary approaches to addressing the role of the brain in obesity, including gut- brain signalling, response to physical activity, genetic factors and candidate drug targets.
Animal models with high translational potential in terms of genetics, physiology, behaviour, obesity and co-morbidities.
The report was created by bringing together more than 50 representatives of the Danish research groups involved in obesity research at a workshop hosted by The University of Copenhagen in August 2011.
The workshop was further attended by the leaders of the larger German research initiatives addressing obesity and by Professor Jean-Michel Oppert, President of EASO (the European Association for the Study of Obesity), MEP Christel Schaldemose the European Parliament, the Danish Agency for Science, Technology and Innovation, the Capital Region of Denmark and the Deans of the faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen.
The Danish consultation process was followed up by a workshop in Germany in December 2011 and a strategic conference in Brussels early 2012. The conference will be convened by EASO and hosted by DG Research.
These initiatives are to provide expert recommendations for the European Commission on the importance and exact role of obesity related research for the future. The basis for further bi-lateral synergies and liaison between the Danish and German research initiatives on obesity are further explored and strengthened.
EASO conference “From biology to society - what message can obesity research deliver to policy makers?“ - See Program and presentations
You're a fan of veggie food? It is a dish for you. It is so good reheated and sprinkled with feta for a light lunch with crusty whole grain bread because of its sweet flavor. Don't miss a chance to try it.
Place a layer of paper towels over a baking sheet. Arrange the eggplant in single layers and sprinkle with 1 teaspoon of salt. Let stand for 30 minutes. Pat dry.
Prepare vegetables. Unpeel eggplants and cut them crosswise into 1/4-inch thick rounds. Wash and dry zucchini, and cut on the bias into 1/4-inch rounds. Slice onions into 1/4-inch rounds. Core and seed red and yellow bell peppers, and cut into 3/4-inch squares. Core endive, after that half and quarter lengthwise.
Divide the eggplant, zucchini, red onions, peppers, and endive between 2 large baking pans with sides. Gently toss the vegetables with 3/4 of the blended oil and vinegar. Place 1 baking sheet on the bottom oven rack and the second on the middle rack. Roast the vegetables for 15 to 20 minutes, turning them once and rotating the pans between the shelves after 10 minutes. The vegetables should be crisp to the bite when they are done.
Arrange the vegetables in colorful bunches on round or oval platters, mixing together the different types of vegetables. Sprinkle the vegetables with salt and pepper, and drizzle them with the remaining olive oil/balsamic vinegar dressing. Serve at room temperature.
Meet a grant recipient: Yihai Cao | Novo Nordisk Fonden
Meet a grant recipient: Yihai Cao
- I know that with this grant my lab and I will have a great influence on future drug development, possibly over a 50 – 100 year timescale. Meantime we may even change a paradigm of thinking, says Yihai Cao, professor at the Karolinska Institute, Sweden.
Obesity and its related disorders constitute one of the greatest threats to global human health. According to the World Health Organization more than 1.5 billion adults are overweight and at least 400 million of them are clinically obese.
Yihai Cao is professor at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden and has developed concepts and hypotheses for research in the field of angiogenese (formation of blood vessels) which may give rise to new treatments for obesity and metabolism. In cancer research there is a profound focus on angiogenese. Research shows that the supply of blood from blood vessels to cancer tumours is an essential process for the tumours' survival and dissipation. Yihai Cao uses knowledge from cancer research to study the rather unexplored area – how angiogenese affects adipose tissue and adipose cells.
In 2014, Yihai Cao was chosen to receive the Novo Nordisk Foundation's Advanced Grant of DKK 10 million over a five-year period. His research project: Modulation of Adipose Angiogenesis made him stand out from 200 candidates. Yihai Cao explains that the method in his project differs from other methods used in the field.
- Our lab is different from others as we are observing how fat cells proceed and are considering the fat cells from different angles – trying to understand other structures in the fat tissue and how these will change fat cell functions.
Yihai and his lab's recent work show that the modulation of the blood supply to adipose significantly regulates the adipose tissue mass and function. By using various genetic and pharmacological experiments they study the mechanisms by which blood vessels control adipocyte function. They target the vasculature of adipose tissue as the blood vessel networks have a crucial role in the development, maintenance and expansion of adipose tissue. These experiments are frequently used in cancer science, but rarely within the areas of obesity and metabolism.
A distinguished group of scientists
Since 2012, the Novo Nordisk Foundation's Nordic Research Committee has awarded a Novo Nordisk Foundation Advanced Grant to the best application under the heading Endocrinological research and experimental physiology for scientists in Nordic countries. The requirements for receiving the grant are that the researcher is at a high international level, that the research project is of the highest international quality, and that the project has a long-term outlook. Bo Ahrén is chair of the Nordic Research Committee and explains:
- The Foundation's Advanced Grant is awarded annually with the aim of pinpointing a top researcher in the Nordic countries. It differs from the other grants awarded by the foundation because it aims for research projects with a long-term perspective. The headline award is for DKK 2 million per year over 5 years, with other top-class applications receiving a maximum of DKK 1 million per year.
As Yihai Cao actually applied for a 1 – 3 years' project grant, he was tremendously surprised when the Nordic Research Committee chose his project.
- When applying for a grant you don't know the odds. In this case I considered them very small because there are so many other great projects and scientists applying for this specific grant. I was very surprised that the committee chose me to receive the advanced grant – it means everything to me as a scientist that they recognize and believe in my work.
- The extended time and great amount of money really brings the project to life. It gives my lab and I the opportunity to develop this new field of research and to position ourselves at an internationally leading level.
Bo Ahrén elaborates on the reason for selecting Yihai Cao's research project:
- Yihai Cao is selected for his outstanding research in endocrinology. His research project has a long-term perspective and a focus on understanding the mechanisms of angiogenesis in adipose tissues as the basis for the development of new targets for therapy.
When a scientist is chosen to receive the Advanced Grant he has to present a 5 year action plan for the research project. Yihai Cao has already presented the plan for his project, but his perspectives for the project extend beyond 5 years:
- When carrying out research I always want to know that the work is meaningful and will be beneficial to patients. I know that with this grant my lab and I will have a great influence on future drug development, possibly over a 50 – 100 year timescale. Meantime we may even change a paradigm of thinking.
Treatment Modalities of the Chiropractic Physician | Buycialisonlinetoday
Treatment Modalities of the Chiropractic Physician
September 30, 2017 Uncategorized Comments Off on Treatment Modalities of the Chiropractic Physician
Alternative Medicine has been the cornerstone of treatment modalities for patients seeking other treatments outside of the traditional physician. One form of alternative care is Chiropractic medicine, which is focused on therapies that revolve around the musculoskeletal system. The first thought some patients may have when they hear chiropractic medicine is a car accident. While they are most popular in therapies revolving around rehabilitation after an auto-accident, many people who may have joint pain, muscle imbalances, or skeletal abnormalities may see a chiropractic doctor to aid them.
The body moves around because of the skeleton and muscles that act like a pulley system. Not all skeletons are created equally so there will be imbalances. Chiropractor's focus on realigning muscles and skeletal system to help prevent disease by manual manipulation therapy. This is a great alternative to increase strength and mobility in the body without the use of drugs. What makes chiropractors unique is that they look at the body holistically. This means they look at the body and the environment they live in. For example, sitting in your wallet as a male can cause spine imbalances as the pelvis raises its angle on one side.
A chiropractor will be able to notice this imbalance when presenting to the clinic because the muscles have become accustomed to the new body posture. The physician may then manipulate the body and rehabilitate it so that it returns to a normal healthy state. This can help prevent injuries to joints, increase lung expansion when breathing, and prevent putting pressure on certain organs. Chiropractors can be viewed in a better more useful light if they are looked at as a form of physical therapy. They offer exercises that increase mobility through stretches, massage, electrical stimulation, ultrasound, and hot and cold modalities. Chiropractors are not just "joint crackers".
One joint misalignment that plagues many is vertebral subluxation. The vertebral column, also known as the spinal column. Serves as literally and figuratively the backbone of the human body. It serves as the attachment point for big muscle groups, it connects the ribs to form the thoracic cavity, and it houses the central nervous system which is the electrical system of the body. Subluxation is when the individual vertebral bodies become misaligned and narrow the canal that the spinal cord runs through. This can cause problems since the spinal cord is a vital organ for many functions of the body.
Chiropractors can use imaging studies, like x-rays, to see where subluxations are and use long-term manipulation techniques to open up the canal that the spinal cord runs through. Because the scope of chiropractors does not extend to surgery or medicines if conditions like subluxations are severe the patient may get referred to another healthcare specialist. Medical practitioners of chiropractor Melbourne FL offer all the treatment modalities that normal chiropractors train in.
Chiropractic medicine is a great alternative for treatment in certain pains like back pain without the use of drugs. Rehabilitation and Musculoskeletal manipulations help in treating many of the elements of skeletal abnormalities. In conjunction with other treatment modalities and healthcare, professional chiropractors can offer great healthcare to those seeking alternative medicines.
Clinical and Echocardiographic Trends in Percutaneous Balloon Mitral Valvuloplasty | Research Square
Ofir Koren, Asaf Israeli, Ehud Rozner, Nassem Darawshy, Yoav Turgeman
ORCiD: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8666-8276
10.21203/rs.3.rs-131040/v1
Percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty (PBMV) is the current standard of care for selected patients with rheumatic mitral stenosis. We examined trends in patient demographics, Wilkins score and additional echocardiographic characteristics, success rates, and complications over a 30-year period.
We conducted a retrospective observational descriptive study. The study population consists of patients hospitalized in intensive cardiac care (ICCU) due to significant symptomatic MS, from January 1990 to May 2019.
417 patients who underwent PBMV were eligible. Age did not change significantly over time. Male patients who were smoking and had multiple comorbidities such as hypertension, dyslipidemia, ischemic heart disease, and chronic kidney disease became more prevalence (p=0.02, p=0.02, p=0.001, p=0.01, p=0.02, and p=0.001 respectively). Wilkins score and all its components increased over time, which was higher in females (p=0.01), and was not correlated with age (p=0.95). Severe leaflets immobility (Grade 4) predicted complications (p=0.03, respectively). Wilkins over 9 successfully predicted the occurrence of complications, conversely, no efficient cutoff was found in the following decades. Wilkins score managed to predict a technically successful procedure (p=0.02), but not complications (p=0.12). Lastly, complication rates did not significantly change over the years.
Our research covers three decades of experience in PBMV and shows several trends: We see more male patients, who have multiple comorbidities. The Wilkins score increased over the years and was predictive of successful operations as opposed to complications who were predicted mainly by the leaflet mobility index.
Mitral Valve Stenosis, Rheumatic Heart Disease, Balloon Valvuloplasty, Echocardiography, Cardiac Catherization
Could STRAWBERRIES keep you sharp? Compound in the fruit prevents age-related mental decline |
A compound, known as fisetin, eases cognitive deterioration and inflammation
Mice not treated with fisetin experience cognitive difficulties and stress
Inflammation has been linked to age-related conditions, like Alzheimer's disease
Previous research has associated fisetin with reduced memory loss in mice
In the mouse study, adding a daily dose of fisetin to food had no safety concerns
A compound in the fruit, known as fisetin, eases cognitive deterioration and inflammation in mice, a study found.
Mice not treated with fisetin experience cognitive difficulties, as well as stress and inflammation, the research adds.
Senior author Pamela Maher, from Salk's Cellular Neurobiology Laboratory in La Jolla, California, said: 'Mice are not people, of course. But there are enough similarities that we think fisetin warrants a closer look, not only for potentially treating Alzheimer's disease but also for reducing some of the cognitive effects associated with aging, generally.'
Researchers from Salk's Cellular Neurobiology Laboratory in La Jolla, California, analyzed mice that age prematurely.
At 10 months, such mice show signs of physical and cognitive decline not seen in normal types of the animal until they are two years old.
The researchers fed three or 10-month-old mice a daily dose of fisetin with their food for seven months.
Another group of the same mice were fed the food without fisetin for the same length of time.
During the study, the mice underwent various cognition and memory tests.
The researchers also examined levels of specific proteins related to brain function, stress and inflammation in the mice.
Results revealed that mice not treated with fisetin had difficulties with all of the cognition tests, as well as showing elevated stress and inflammation.
Fisetin-treated mice experienced no safety concerns.
Those given fisetin at 10 months demonstrated similar behaviour, cognitive ability and inflammation as a group of untreated three-month-old mice with the same accelerated ageing.
Ms Maher said: 'At 10 months, the differences between these two groups were striking.
'Mice are not people, of course.
'But there are enough similarities that we think fisetin warrants a closer look, not only for potentially treating sporadic AD but also for reducing some of the cognitive effects associated with ageing, generally.'
The findings were published in the Journals of Gerontology: Series A.
Previous research has linked fisetin with reduced memory loss in mice genetically – predisposed to develop Alzheimer's disease.
MISSING JUST ONE NIGHT'S SLEEP INCREASES LEVELS OF A PROTEIN LINKED TO ALZHEIMER'S
Missing just one night's sleep can increase levels of the brain-clogging protein linked to Alzheimer's disease, a study revealed earlier this month.
While the exact cause of Alzheimer's disease is unclear, sufferers of the condition have high levels of a sticky plaque in their brain.
This toxic substance, called Amyloid beta, stops brain cells functioning properly.
After just one bad night's sleep, amyloid levels were 10 percent higher in an experiment.
The other key signature of Alzheimer's disease, also a protein, is called Tau, which forms tangly fibres in brain cells. These stop nutrients flowing through the cells.
After a week's disturbed sleep, levels of this protein also began to increase, according to researchers from Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis.
Link original – http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-4685624/Strawberries-prevent-age-related-mental-decline.html
Esta entrada se ha publicado en Alimentación, Cerebro, Cosas Nuevas, Investigaciones, Medicina, Nutrición, Prevención, Sabías que, Salud y se ha etiquetado como alzheimer prevención, beneficios de dormir, Dieta antiinflamatoria, estres, fisetina, fresas, salud mental. Marca el vínculo permanente.
Overuse of antibiotics like these has led to a new breed of superbugs -- and made a lot of childhood illnesses increasingly tough to treat. Learn how to protect your family.
Every night for a week I set my alarm clock for 2 a.m. so I can wake my 3-year-old daughter, Devon, for yet another dose of her "icky" medicine. I sit on her, clamp her arms down, pinch her nose shut, and slowly squirt a teaspoon of thick, greenish-yellow liquid into her mouth. We repeat this wrestling match every six hours. I feel like the worst mommy in the world.
Unfortunately, there's no better option. Devon has a recurring urinary-tract infection (UTI) caused by bacteria that are resistant to most antibiotics. It only responds to one oral drug that's approved for kids a liquid with a taste, texture, and odor that cherry flavoring can't disguise. I worry what will happen if the bacteria eventually become resistant to that antibiotic too.
Before Devon got sick, I knew that misusing antibiotics could lead to the evolution of so-called superbugs, but I didn't really think about those germs striking my family. Now I know better. "Although we talk about antibiotic resistance as a public-health issue, it's an individual child who gets an infection," says Arjun Srinivasan, M.D., a medical epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
In fact, many everyday childhood illnesses are becoming increasingly hard to treat. You've probably heard about MRSA—methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, potentially deadly bacteria that don't respond to commonly used antibiotics. A new study analyzing data from more than 300 hospitals found that there's been an alarming increase in ear, sinus, and throat infections in children that were caused by MRSA.
However, the problem isn't limited to one superbug. Two-year-old Sloane Poth, of Charlotte, North Carolina, needed surgery last year for a skin infection caused by another strain of drug-resistant bacteria. On Monday, it looked like diaper rash. By Friday, she was in the hospital. "She's fine now, but it was very scary," says her father, Michael. "The surgeon said that he's now seeing two or three serious cases like hers every week."
Although most antibiotic-resistant infections aren't necessarily life-threatening, pediatricians who can't use their first-choice antibiotic may have to prescribe a drug that's not approved for children or simply isn't kid-friendly. "If medicine doesn't taste good, children won't swallow it, and then your only option is to give them a shot," says Mika Hiramatsu, M.D., a pediatrician in Castro Valley, California. For MRSA, however, there are no outpatient shots that work, so a child who won't take oral antibiotics will need to be hospitalized for IV antibiotics. "It's a huge ordeal for the types of infections that would have been very easy for us to cure 20 years ago," says Dr. Hiramatsu.
Treating a resistant infection is also costly in terms of both time and money not to mention anxiety and lost sleep. Karyn Bilezerian's 16-month-old son, Karson, suffered from a painful ear infection for nearly a month until his fourth antibiotic finally did the trick. "Every week, we were going back to the doctor and the pharmacy," says Bilezerian, who lives in Wrentham, Massachusetts. "Karson had never needed antibiotics before, so I was shocked when the first three didn't work. With the fourth one, we saw a difference very quickly—when it worked, it worked."
Every child has colonies of helpful and harmful bacteria living in his body. Within those colonies, a few individual strains of bacteria may have a natural ability to resist certain antibiotics. So whenever your child takes an antibiotic, the germs that are susceptible to that drug die, leaving more room for the drug-resistant microbes to reproduce and become dominant. The same thing can happen when your child doesn't finish his whole course of antibiotics. Either way, the strong survive.
If your child develops a sizable population of resistant bacteria after taking an antibiotic, it doesn't necessarily mean she'll become ill. The new bugs may simply live in her body—in which case, she's said to be "colonized"—or they may disappear over time. Under the right circumstances, though, she could get sick with a tough-to-treat infection. One of the great mysteries of medical science is why bacterial infections develop in one case and not another; it probably depends on a variety of factors, such as the strength and number of bacteria, and the child's own immune system.
However, even if your child doesn't have any symptoms, she can still pass along those resistant bacteria to others. That's how a child who's never even taken antibiotics can become infected with drug-resistant bacteria. "Young kids in child-care centers share germs better than they share toys," says Sarah Long, M.D., a pediatric infectious-disease specialist at St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, in Philadelphia.
In fact, kids play a key role in the development of resistant bacteria—not only do they spread germs easily, but they take more antibiotics than adults do. While many of those prescriptions are crucial for their health, others are unnecessary. "Antibiotics are important for treating bacterial infections, but more than 90 percent of children's illnesses are actually viral infections that can't be cured with antibiotics," says Dr. Long. Asking for antibiotics when your child has a bad cold, for example, can wind up doing more harm than good.
Part of the problem is that pediatricians sometimes prescribe antibiotics simply because parents want them to. In one CDC study, parents walked away with a prescription 65 percent of the time if the doctor thought they expected one, but only 12 percent of the time otherwise. "Although some physicians are getting the message, it's still a problem," says Lauri Hicks, D.O., medical director of the CDC program Get Smart: Know When Antibiotics Work. Earlier this year, the CDC also sent letters to several chain pharmacies expressing concern about their programs that were offering customers free generic antibiotics as the solution for colds and flu. Officials worried this would increase pressure on doctors to prescribe antibiotics inappropriately.
Let's face it: As parents, we typically put our child's immediate well-being—and sometimes our own need to get back to work—ahead of a remote concept like bacterial evolution. If there's a chance antibiotics will make our child feel better, we may be tempted to take it. However, antibiotic resistance is not a problem we can worry about tomorrow. Kids are already at risk when they get the following seemingly run-of-the-mill illnesses, so it's important to know when antibiotics don't make sense.
Most ear infections are caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, a bacterium that can also cause meningitis, pneumonia, and other infections. Last year, a study identified a new strain of strep (dubbed 19A) that is resistant to all 18 antibiotics that are approved by the FDA for use in children. Kids in the study with those ear infections were successfully treated with an antibiotic meant only for adults, but one child suffered permanent hearing loss. Doctors also now realize that MRSA can cause ear infections as well as skin infections.
Drug-free treatment Since many mild ear infections clear up on their own, your doctor may recommend a wait-and-see approach for two to three days if your child is over age 2 and his infection isn't severe (based mostly on the appearance of his eardrum). You can get a prescription for an antibiotic to fill only if your child doesn't improve. "Most of my patients' parents never fill those prescriptions," says Dr. Hiramatsu.
Smart medicine For a more severe infection, your doctor will probably choose an antibiotic based on established guidelines (resistance varies regionally). "If your child is given two rounds of antibiotics within a month and still has an ear infection, there's a good chance the bacteria are resistant," says pediatrician Michael Pichichero, M.D., director of the Rochester General Hospital Research Institute, in New York. In that case, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends an ear tap (tympanocentesis), which is the only way for a doctor to pinpoint the strain of bacteria and find out which antibiotic will kill it. Unfortunately, few pediatricians do the procedure, which involves putting a needle into a child's eardrum. "Tympanocentesis was very common when there were only a few antibiotics available, but pediatricians are no longer taught how to do it in medical school," says Dr. Pichichero. "I think that will change as more and more pediatricians are confronted with ear infections they can't cure with any antibiotic."
An ear tap can also be a form of treatment, since it drains infected pus from behind the eardrum. Karen Winters, of Hilton, New York, saw the results of an ear tap firsthand with her 2-year-old son, Anders, who's had several hard-to-treat ear infections. "He didn't like having us hold him down, but he felt better immediately afterward," she says.
If your doctor doesn't do the procedure, see if you can locate an ear, nose, and throat specialist who might. Otherwise, your doctor will keep trying different antibiotics and may eventually refer your child to have tubes placed in her ears to drain lingering fluid. Inserting tympanostomy tubes is now the most common surgical procedure performed on children; it's estimated that nearly 7 percent of kids have tubes in their ears by age 3.
Prevention strategies Make sure that your child is fully vaccinated. Ear infections have declined dramatically since the pneumococcal vaccine was first introduced in 2000. Encourage him to wash his hands frequently to avoid catching colds that can lead to ear infections.
Dr. Janda currently holds the rank of the Ely R. Callaway, Jr. Chaired Professor in the Departments of Chemistry, Immunology and Microbial Science at The Scripps Research Institute and is the Director of the Worm Institute of Research and Medicine (WIRM) at The Scripps Research Institute. He was born in Cleveland Ohio in 1957 wherein 1975 he matriculated to the University of South Florida and obtained a BS in Clinical Chemistry in 1980 and a doctoral degree from the University of Arizona (1984) in natural product total synthesis. Janda’s current research efforts straddle the interface of chemical biology. Janda is a Skaggs Scholar within the Skaggs Institute of Chemical Biology also at The Scripps Research Institute. He is a current member of the NIH study section Vaccines against Microbial Diseases. He also holds the positions of Associate Editor of Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry and PloS ONE. Janda and his group at the Scripps Research Institute California have made groundbreaking progress through the development of an antiheroin vaccine.
Dr. Shoichet serves as a professor in the Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry at UC, San Francisco. From 1996 to 2002, he joined the faculty at Northwestern University in the Department of Molecular Pharmacology & Biological Chemistry, and was recruited back to UCSF in 2003. His postdoctoral research focused on protein structure and stability with Brian Matthews at the Institute of Molecular Biology in Eugene, Oregon, as a Damon Runyon Fellow. He received his Ph.D. for work with Tack Kuntz on molecular docking in 1991 from UCSF. His current work focuses on taking computational approaches to develop an opioid that has potent analgesic properties with reduced addictive potential. Research in the Shoichet Lab seeks to bring chemical reagents to biology, combining computational simulation and experiment. Broadly, the Shoichet Lab adopts a protein-centric approach that seeks new ligands to complement protein structures. Using a ligand-centric approach, his lab seeks new targets for established drugs and reagents. Whereas this lacks the physical foundation of the structure-based research program, it returns to an older, pharmacological view of biological relationships, bringing to it a quantitative model. A focus for both approaches is ligand discovery against G Protein-Coupled Receptors (GPCRs).
Dr. Mosley has joined the faculty of the Titus Department of Clinical Pharmacy as assistant professor of clinical pharmacy. His research is focused in pharmacogenomics implementation, which incorporates genetic information with other clinical factors to optimize drug selection. He received a B.S. in Biochemical/Biophysical Science from the University of Houston in 2006, then worked as an analytical chemist in a core pharmacology lab for MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, TX. He received his PharmD degree from the University of Texas in 2013, and then took a position as a pharmacist with MD Anderson Cancer Center. He completed a postdoctoral research fellowship at the University of Florida College of Pharmacy in the Center for Pharmacogenomics under the mentorship of Larisa Cavallari, PharmD. During that time he carried out a research protocol to assess the value of utilizing CYP2D6 genotype to guide opioid selection for patients with cancer pain.
Dr. Pacula is a senior economist at the RAND Corporation and a professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School. She serves as director of RAND's BING Center for Health Economics and co-director of the RAND Drug Policy Research Center. Her research at RAND over the last 20 years has largely focused on issues related to illegal or imperfect markets (health care markets, insurance markets, illicit drug markets), measurement of the size of these markets, the impact they have on behavior (suppliers and consumers), and the effectiveness of policy interventions at targeting behavior within these markets. More recently her work has shifted to evaluating the impact of recent opioid policies in the US. She has explored the influence of buprenorphine diffusion, OxyContin reformulation, insurance expansion, medical marijuana and naloxone distribution laws on opioid related harm. She has also done work examining the size of the market for illicit opioids. Pacula has been a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) since 1997, serves on the editorial board of several journals, and is a scientific reviewer for the National Institutes of Health's HSOD committee. She received her Ph.D. in economics from Duke University.
Dr. Durham is an Assistant Professor of Clinical Pharmacy at the University of Southern California (USC) School of Pharmacy. She received her Doctor of Pharmacy degree, completed a residency in Community Pharmacy Practice, and has earned her Master’s degree in Academic Medicine, all from USC. Dr. Durham is a clinical pharmacist at the USC Pain Center in the Department of Anesthesiology, where she established a pharmacist-run pain medication management service. She is a Board Certified Ambulatory Care Pharmacist and a Diplomat of the Academy of Integrative Pain Management. In addition, she is a practicing community pharmacist.
Dr. Mandyam graduated from the College of Pharmacy at the University of Houston with a PhD in pharmacological sciences and continued her postdoctoral research at the department of psychiatry at UT Southwestern Medical Center in neuroscience with a focus on addiction research. She later moved to San Diego, and after her tenure at the Scripps Research Institute, she moved her laboratory to University of California San Diego where she is an associate professor with joint appointments at the department of anesthesiology and Skaggs School of Pharmacy. She is also a research biologist at the VA San Diego Healthcare System. The general goal of her laboratory is to understand the relationship between brain structure and function using state-of-the-art molecular and cellular approaches to study high-level mental functions such as illicit drug/alcohol taking and seeking. Her lab employs genetic, pharmacological, electrophysiological and histochemical techniques, and behavioral paradigms for understanding the role of neural stem cells and myelinating oligodendrocytes in neuropathology produced by illicit drug/alcohol use. These studies in her lab may reveal novel neuroprotective strategies to reduce propensity of relapse to drug use. Dr. Mandyam is a member at Neurobiology of Motivated Behavior Study Section at NIH and a member of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology and serves as a reviewer of several journals.
Dr. Fond attended UCLA as an undergraduate before being admitted to the doctor of pharmacy program at the University of Southern California School of Pharmacy. He practiced in community pharmacy settings for forty-one years, where he often mentored students, including pharmacy interns and technicians. He owned and operated the Glenoaks Rx Pharmacy in Burbank, CA from 1972 until 2006. From 1985 to 1992 he partnered in the ownership of Karen Pharmacy, also located in Burbank. Dr. Fond served on the board of the Pharmacists’ Society of the San Fernando Valley for fifteen years and as an officer for ten years. In 2015, Dr. Fond was granted a life membership in The California Pharmacist Association at its annual convention, at which he was a frequent delegate. In 2015 he was also honored by the California State Board of Pharmacy in recognition of his 50 years of registration and service to the public. Dr. Fond proposed to the Pharmacy Board at its March meeting this year that it publish in its online newsletter, The Script, an article that he had written titled “I Am a Drug Addict,” (based on the narcotic withdrawal symptoms he experienced after only one week post-surgery from the dosing of a medically prescribed opioid) as one means of helping to raise the awareness of licensees regarding the national crisis of opioid addiction, through the telling of his personal story. More information on his experience can be read online here.
Cognac Essential Oil - White Sage Landing
Home > Essential Oils > Cognac Essential Oil
The spiritual and energetic properties of this essential oil have not yet been explored by many individuals. According to my sources, it has a powerful ability to stimulate the imagination and elevate creative impulses.
It brings forth a feeling of transcendence that is difficult to describe. There is a sedative quality that relaxes and relieves emotional tension and drama through inhalation of this essential oil.
Top note: Pleasant, strong and fruity
Heart Note: Fruity, bitter, deep
Base Note: Fruity, bitter, deep
SKU: E-COG1 Category: Essential Oils Tags: Blood Sugar, Cancer Support, Digestion, Emotional Balance, Gas & Bloating, Heart Cardiovascular Health, Priced Under $50
More About Our Cognac Essential Oil
Production Method: Steam distilled from the wine lees, left at the bottom of the wine barrels after aging. Contains oil from the spent yeast, and bits of fermented grape juice.
Botanical Name: Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Also known as "Brewer's Yeast")
Homeopathic Properties of Cognac Essential Oil
Anti-oxidant (beneficial substances that help keep free radicals from damaging cells; this type of damage can increase the risk for clogged arteries, heart disease, cancer and vision loss)
Inhibits food-borne pathogens including E-coli, Salmonella. and Clostridium
Lowers blood sugar and non-benficial cholesterol
Tonic–respiratory, immune, and cardiovascular systems
Source of B vitamins (except B-12), chromium, and selenium
Internal–oral supplemental and semi-homeopathic dosages, inhalation
External–topical application, massage
This species of yeast is being recommended in wholistic medicine for a wide range of possible benefits, including lowering blood sugar, lowering non-beneficial cholesterol levels, and increasing digestive strength.
It has even been cited for anti-cancer effects, antibiotic like effects, and positive effects on the heart and circulatory system.
It has also been found to increase cell levels of beta-glucan, a nutrient that can protect DNA against ultraviolet light deterioration.
This is such a new essential oil product that the health benefits are unproven and mostly unknown. It shows a lot of promise and should be explored by those who are working with new "herbal remedies".
Regular consumption of Saccharomyces cerevisiae may lead to an imbalance in the B-Vitamin complex. It contains high levels of B Vitamins except for Vitamin B-12, which lack can lead to anemia.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae lowers blood sugar, which should be monitored carefully when used by those with diabetes. Consult a health care professional for use by diabetics. It is unknown how many of these issues remain with use of Cognac essential oil. People with diabetes or a tendency toward anemia should avoid use or use it under guidance of a health care professional until the results are clear.
Cognac should not be used with MAOI therapy.
People who are allergic to wine, grapes, or cognac, could have an allergic reaction to cognac essential oil.
