Jeffrey Domingue, DPM, – Podiatrist – Sioux Falls, SD
4.8 / 5 (Based on 166 Ratings) Read Reviews | Learn More
"Helping my patients get back to an active lifestyle, saving a foot from infection—these are the reasons I went into medicine. I find helping others lessen their pain very rewarding."
6100 S. Louise Ave. Suite 2100 Sioux Falls, SD 57108
Outreach Location 1100 S. 10th Ave Rock Rapids, IA 51246
Main: 712-472-5400
Fax: 712-472-5305
4513 S Prince of Peace Place Suite 1 Sioux Falls, SD 57103
Main: 605-322-5600
Outreach Location 909 N. Iowa Avenue Dell Rapids, SD 57022
Main: 605-428-5431
Outreach Location 1202 21st Avenue Rock Valley, IA 51247
Main: 712-476-8000
Fax: 712-476-8090
Outreach Location 2020 Hospital Drive Windom, MN 56101
Main: 507-831-1703
Looking for a podiatrist who understands your foot needs? Look no further than Jeffrey Domingue, DPM, a board-certified podiatrist at Avera Medical Group Orthopedics in Sioux Falls, SD. Inspired by his grandmother who was a nurse, Dr. Domingue knew he was destined to help others. After experiencing many high school sports injuries, he decided to focus his career on helping those with foot and ankle conditions.
Expert Care for Feet and Ankles
Find expertise and compassion when it comes to treating foot and ankle issues. Dr. Domingue—with decades of experience—provides non-surgical and surgical care of the skin, tendons, ligaments, joints and bones in the foot and ankle. He specializes in providing expert wound care and treating primary foot care concerns for all ages, including children and adults.
No matter your age, count on Dr. Domingue to treat foot and ankle conditions such as:
"I am a proponent of patient education, which has a significant impact on a patient's success or outcome in their treatment plan," Dr. Domingue says. He enjoys building relationships with patients and helping lessen painful foot problems.
In his free time, Dr. Domingue likes spending time with family, attending concerts, playing guitar and biking.
University of Osteopathic Medicine and Health Sciences, Des Moines, IA, Medical School
VA Black Hills Health Care Services, Fort Meade, SD, Podiatric Medicine
VA Eastern Colorado Health Care System, Denver, Podiatric Surgery
Eligible - American Board of Foot and Ankle Surgery
Happy to be in the Avera network
I implemented Dr. Domingue's recommendations right away and they helped.
1st visit, impressed with the care and 'bedside' manner .
He was very quick to diagnose the problem, treated it and sent me on my way.
The procedure was very efficient. I am completely satisfied.
Everyone at the office was wonderful from the greeters, reception, nurses, radiology tecs, and the doctor. I had a great first experience with Avera!
My office call (including X-rays) was completed in 35"!
We are very pleased with care at Avera..
it is a great health care facility
My only negative comment, toenail clippings were on the exam room floor...
The Doc is wonderful!!! Very caring and explained everything!!
Everything is very good at Avera
Very nice to spend time with that doctor. His nurse is wonderful also.
Need to consider a chair at the check in desk, my feet and back were hurting and I had to STAND while she was checking me in, insurance cards etc. A chair or stool would be nice.
The annual physical was completed with little stress which is appreciated...
The nurse was not friendly at all. They had that I was diabetic in my chart. I am NOT diabetic.
The doctor was very down to earth, I would recommend the Doctor to other people.
Unresolved medical issues
LL MY QUESTIONS WERE ANSWERED. The doctor knew my medical history. Talked me through everythong he was dling.
Very good with elderly patients
Great experience and could not ask for anything better!
I had never seen this provider before but would definitely suggest him to others. Very professional and knowledgeable.
Avera is the place to be for good service and continued good heath...thanks all!
The gentleman at the valet parking did an excellent job and was very friendly as well as the gentleman that checked me in at the orthopedic area.
Excellent and friendly care
I like my Dr Domingue he's a thorough knowledgeable podiatrist who I trust with my limbs and I would refer him in an heartbeat. Thank you for taking care me. I'm not a easy person to help because of my health issues. I appreciate the understanding and not giving up on me
Dr Domingue is always very professional and a great help to me
I was very happy with the care I received.
He was very personable and nice
I should have had this callous cut out from my foot long ago. Feels good to not limp around the house
I love the yummy smells coming from Our Daily Bread and I have eaten lunch there!
Doctor's nurse is very kind, patient and helpful.
It was the first time that I have seen Dr. Jeff, he really seems to care what you have to say and is a genuinely nice person.
Details in my chart are incorrect, both about my recent visit and about family medical history.
Thank you for excellent, courteous care.
He seemed not real careful in clipping the nails. They were rough and snagly and some left unfinished. I had to redo one that was left with apiece of nail that became infected.
Moody Neuro - Moody Neurorehabilitation
GalvestonLubbock
Long-term Supported Living
TideWayWestWay
Moody Neuro
Four Decades, Four Locations. One Mission.
Marquette Rubalcada
(formerly Transitional Learning Center)
1808 N. Quaker
mrubalcada@moodyneuro.org
(623) 337-2857
Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute (Moody Neuro) provides personalized care to treat the unique challenges of brain injury with the singular purpose of achieving the best possible outcome for patients and their families.
About Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute
Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute (Moody Neuro), formerly known as the Transitional Learning Center, is a respected leader in brain-injury-specific rehabilitation. Moody Neuro is a CARF-accredited, 501(c)(3)non-profit organization. A holistic approach to brain rehabilitation has been our sole focus since our establishment in 1982. This unique approach emphasizes personalized care, centering around community re-entry and maximized quality of life. Patients and their families can expect unwavering commitment to quality across a continuum of care developed specifically for the needs of brain injury patients.
Moody Neuro currently operates four locations in the state of Texas: two post-acute rehabilitation facilities in Galveston and Lubbock, and also two long-term living facilities in Galveston and Lubbock. Our team is comprised of Moody Neuro employees, rather than outside contractors. Team members are dedicated to achieving positive outcomes supported by a shared mission, world-class facilities, innovative therapeutic programs, and a sheer desire to improve the lives of our patients every day.
MOODY REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
Moody Neuro's programs are designed to assist patients in achieving their highest level of independence in their respective communities. Our departments work together to achieve the best possible outcome for patients by addressing cognitive, behavioral, and physical limitations, considering individual needs and goals, and developing a personalized treatment plan. Moody Neuro offers residential and out-patient neurorehabilitation programs, as well long-term supported care. Our 2019 patient satisfaction survey indicates that 90% of patients felt that the quality of therapy was outstanding and our 2019 employee satisfaction survey indicated that 92% of our employees would recommend us as a great place to work. For fiscal year 2017-2018, we provided services to one child and/or adolescent. For fiscal year 2018-2019, we didn't provide services to children and/or adolescents.
At Moody Neuro, we incorporate conventional therapy with technology such as robotics and computer based simulation to maximize therapeutic gains. Depending on the patient's individual capability and physician recommendations, we provide a wide range of therapy hours. The ultimate goal is to have each patient return to their highest level of function, in a shorter period of time. We are dedicated to the patient and their family by providing many avenues of support and assistance. Moody Neuro's passionate case managers assist patients and families throughout the rehabilitation journey, while they discover their new 'normal' way of living. We provide home evaluations, in-house training, discharge planning, and home exercise programs to help ensure the transition from rehabilitation is safe and comfortable.
Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute in Lubbock
Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute in Lubbock opened its doors to West Texas communities in April 2008. Drawing on close to 30 years of experience in the field of post-acute brain injury rehabilitation, Moody Neuro in Lubbock provides an important service to the Southwest by serving adults with acquired brain injury the comprehensive, interdisciplinary services needed to re-enter the community.
Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute in Galveston
Established in 1982, Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute in Galveston is a leader in the field of post-acute brain injury rehabilitation. Moody Neuro in Galveston provides adults with acquired brain injury the comprehensive, interdisciplinary services needed to re-enter the community.
Our long term supported care program provides the growing needs of survivors of acquired brain injury who are unable to return to an independent lifestyle due to physical, medical, behavioral, and/or cognitive impairment. Our program model emphasizes knowing the residents as well as their condition. Our goals for our patients include:
Increase the functional skills of residents
Enhance the quality of life through engaging and purposeful therapeutic activities, environmental supports and structure, lifelong education and medical monitoring
Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute at TideWay
Moody Neuro at TideWay is a long-term supported living facility for survivors of brain injury in Galveston. This 32 bed facility offers nearly 40 thousand square feet of living and activity space and sits on 3.5 acres of prime real estate one block from the beach in the heart of Galveston Island.
Moody Neurorehabilitation Institute at WestWay
Moody Neuro at WestWay is a six-bed, long-term supported living facility in Lubbock. Moody Neuro at WestWay offers a comfortable, home-like environment that replicates a normal lifestyle for our patients with acquired or traumatic brain injury. Moody Neuro at WestWay is located in a residential area of Lubbock, providing residents direct access to the community and the resources it has to offer everyday.
For questions pertaining to Moody Neuro programs or general inquiries, please call us at (409) 762-6661. To schedule a tour please call any of our facilities or fill out the contact form.
Our hours of operation are 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday
Your input is essential to ensuring that we maintain a positive, productive workplace.
Please use the Compliance Hotline or web link below to submit a confidential report:
Moody Neuro Hotline: (844) 850-2121
Compliance Web Link: moodyneuro.ethicspoint.com
Please indicate which facility(s) you are interested in:
Mood Neuro in Galveston
Moody Neuro in Lubbock
Moody Neuro at TideWay
Moody Neuro at WestWay
I wanted the opportunity to thank all the Moody Neuro family for taking such good care of my brother...He is truly transformed from when he arrived at your door....
You all have been tough and inspiring - just what I needed to get better. Thanks!
Thank you for everything you guys have done for our family. You all helped us forward in a very hard time, with smiles and lots of educating. Thank you!
Playing 8Xbet sports is a great way to increase your physical activity and improve your cardiovascular health. It also gives you a chance to meet new people and develop new friendships. Not to mention the benefits that playing sports has for your mental health. Regular physical activity also improves lung capacity and improves lung function.
Motivations
Motivation is the process of making oneself do something. It is the process of directing one’s efforts over a long period of time. For instance, a female might find a physical challenge to be more motivating than a male. Males, on the other hand, may feel motivated by competition, ego, or mastery.
Young people and children are also motivated by their environments. It is often the social environment or the encouragement of friends and family members that inspires them to engage in physical activity. In one recent study by researchers at the US National Library of Medicine, a study found that sports clubs and outdoor activity were among the most important factors for youth motivation.
In addition, the research team found that extrinsic and intrinsic motivations are closely linked. The former focuses on the benefits of physical activity while the latter focuses on competing with others and external factors. The latter requires greater support from outside sources.
Ways to improve your health by playing different sports
Playing different sports is a great way to stay fit and healthy. It engages the body and mind, and it also helps you de-stress and energize. In addition to the health benefits, participating in sports also helps you develop your personality, improve your self-confidence, and understand yourself better. It is also an excellent way to meet new people and make new friends.
Playing different sports is easy and inexpensive, and it can improve many aspects of your life. Physical activities improve your heart function and reduce the risk of certain illnesses, such as diabetes and high blood pressure. They also improve your muscle memory and coordination. Moreover, they improve your height-to-weight ratio, which is an indicator of your overall health.
Physical activity for cardiovascular health
Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle and is essential for cardiovascular health. It can be performed in many forms and has many benefits. However, there are a number of factors to consider before beginning a vigorous physical activity program. For example, a person who is obese or has high blood pressure should seek a physician’s approval before engaging in vigorous physical activity. A person who has a history of cardiovascular disease or uses tobacco should also seek medical advice before beginning a vigorous exercise program.
While physical inactivity is a significant contributor to heart disease risk, it can also prevent it. Physical activity strengthens the heart muscle and lowers the risk of developing high blood pressure and high cholesterol, both of which can lead to heart attack and other diseases.
Importance of mental health
Whether an athlete is an elite athlete or an amateur, they all must look out for their mental health. Poor mental health can affect performance and even cause injury. Athletes who seek help are often criticized and labeled as quitters. However, they deserve the time and space they need to get their mental health back on track.
Research has shown that children who participate in sports in school are more likely to have better mental health as young adults. The study involved 850 high school students from 10 schools in Canada. The researchers followed the students up for three years after their graduation. The researchers found that youth who participated in sports had fewer signs of depression and less perceived stress than those who did not play sports.
Importance of self-esteem
Self-esteem is the level of positive self-image that a person has about himself. This level increases when an individual succeeds and receives praise and love. Conversely, it decreases when he experiences failure, harsh criticism, or rejection. Self-esteem is an important topic to address in education and health, since it influences the ability of individuals to cope with life’s challenges.
Self-esteem has been studied in the context of 8Xbet sports, with many studies referencing the importance of self-esteem for athletes. For example, D’Anna and colleagues evaluated the self-esteem levels of different categories of athletes. They found that high-self-esteem athletes had higher physical performance and self-esteem in high-performance sports than did low-self-esteem athletes. They also found that gender did not seem to affect the level of self-esteem in high-performance sports.
improve your mental health by sleeping
Tags
8xbet
news
sports
-- Sponsor Ad --
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Linkedin
ReddIt
Previous article
The most common type of vacuum pump
Next article
Sports News in Thailand
David Mike
I am a Web Developer at different sites come and visit now. Web development company Read more <a latest Govt jobs Read more <a Indeed jobs Read more <a Pakistan jobs
RELATED ARTICLES
Business
Advantages of Custom Nail Polish Boxes for Product
David Mike - November 18, 2022
Business
IELTS Planning: 6 Moves toward Breezing Assessment?
David Mike - November 16, 2022
Business
How To Start A Hotel Blog And Succeed In The Industry
David Mike - November 10, 2022
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Log in to leave a comment
Most Popular
5 Awesome Dog Collars To Inspire Your Pooch
October 26, 2022
How to Draw a Cartoon Snowman A Step-by-Step Manual
October 26, 2022
How to Use a Rototiller on Grass
October 26, 2022
Letters in order secret letter chase movement
October 25, 2022
Figuring out Appropriate Cleaning Organization For Your Home
October 21, 2022
5 good reasons why you should hire a commercial cleaning service for your office
October 18, 2022
Load more
Daily Blowg
ABOUT US
Daily Blowg is your news, business, product comparison website. We provide you with the latest breaking news straight from the Tech and Ecommerce industry.
Renal Toxicities of Novel Agents Used for Treatment of Multiple Myeloma | American Society of Nephrology
Rimda Wanchoo, Ala Abudayyeh, Mona Doshi, Amaka Edeani, Ilya G. Glezerman, Divya Monga, Mitchell Rosner and Kenar D. Jhaveri
CJASN January 2017, 12 (1) 176-189; DOI: https://doi.org/10.2215/CJN.06100616
*Division of Nephrology, Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine, Great Neck, New York;
†Division of Internal Medicine, Section of Nephrology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas;
‡Division of Nephrology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, Michigan;
§Kidney Diseases Branch, National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland;
‖Department of Medicine, Renal Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, New York;
¶Nephrology Division, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi; and
**Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Virginia
Survival for patients with multiple myeloma has significantly improved in the last decade in large part due to the development of proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs. These next generation agents with novel mechanisms of action as well as targeted therapies are being used both in the preclinical and clinical settings for patients with myeloma. These agents include monoclonal antibodies, deacetylase inhibitors, kinase inhibitors, agents affecting various signaling pathways, immune check point inhibitors, and other targeted therapies. In some cases, off target effects of these therapies can lead to unanticipated effects on the kidney that can range from electrolyte disorders to AKI. In this review, we discuss the nephrotoxicities of novel agents currently in practice as well as in development for the treatment of myeloma.
Treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) has significantly improved in recent decades. Whereas alkylating agents in combination with steroids were the standard of care for several years, novel immunomodulatory agents (IMiD) and targeted therapies have changed the treatment paradigms and outcomes for this disease (Figure 1). Table 1 lists the novel agents and their mechanisms of action.
Four classes of agents that can be used to treat multiple myeloma. Akt, serine-threonine protein kinase B; BRAF, v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B; HDAC, histone deactylase; MEK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; mTOR, mammalian target of rapamycin; PD, programmed cell death protein; SLAMF7, signaling lymphocytic activation molecule F7.
Novel antimyeloma agents in the market or in development and their mechanism of action
Three percent of all kidney biopsies performed have paraprotein-mediated kidney disease. In addition, some novel MM therapies have also been reported to cause kidney injury. These adverse effects are likely to have negative effects on prognosis and may limit the ability of the patient to receive effective treatment. Given myeloma itself can lead to kidney disease, distinguishing between myeloma-related kidney disease and drug toxicity is difficult without a kidney biopsy. Thrombocytopenia at the time of presentation often precludes a kidney biopsy. In this review, we discuss novel agents being used in the treatment of MM and their related nephrotoxicities. Table 2 (Food and Drug Administration [FDA] approved agents) and Table 3 (agents in clinical trials for MM) provide a summary of the detailed kidney toxicities of all agents used in MM classified by their mechanism of action.
Summary of known renal toxicities of Food and Drug Administration approved antimyeloma agents
Summary of known renal toxicities of antimyeloma agents (not Food and Drug Administration approved to treat myeloma) currently in clinical trials
Alkylating Agents, Anthracyclines, and Platinum-Based Therapies
Combination cytotoxic therapies were common regimens for treatment of MM before the arrival of newer agents, especially in patients with high tumor burden and frequent relapses (1–5). Aggressive cytoreduction with a combination chemotherapeutic regimen such as steroids, cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin (DCEP) (6) with or without bortezomib (V-DCEP) (5) or a combination such as bortezomib, thalidomide, steroids, cisplatin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide (VTD-PACE) (7) is a reasonable salvage regimen. Cisplatin is the most nephrotoxic of the traditional chemotherapies used for MM (1) known to cause dose dependent acute tubular necrosis. Besides acute tubular necrosis, it is known to cause hypomagnesemia, fanconi syndrome, thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), and salt wasting syndrome (Table 2). Given the scope of this article, nephrotoxicities of traditional chemotherapy agents used in MM (alkylating agents, anthracyclines, and platinum-based therapies) will not be discussed (1–4,8).
Proteasomes are enzyme complexes responsible for degradation of intracellular proteins and clearing the misfolded/unfolded and cytotoxic proteins, and are critical for the maintenance of protein homeostasis within a cell. It has been hypothesized that cancer cells are more dependent on proteasomes for clearance of abnormal or mutant proteins. In fact, several preclinical studies have shown that malignant cells are more sensitive to proteasome inhibition than normal cells (9).
Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor (PI) used for treatment of MM (10,11). In terms of nephrotoxicity, five cases of TMA have been reported with this agent thus far (12–15). However, these TMA cases are complex and the causality between bortezomib and these events is not definitive. For example, Morita et al. reported the onset of TMA 8 days after commencing treatment with bortezomib and steroids in a patient with MM who had undergone a sequential autologous and allogenic stem cell transplant (12). In another case, Moore et al. reported a case of TMA in a newly diagnosed myeloma patient that occurred 2 days after treatment with bortezomib and which resolved spontaneously in a few days (13). In this particular case, ADAMTS13 activity was low initially after treatment and remained low with bortezomib rechallenge, even though TMA did not reoccur (13). Three other cases reported in the literature (14,15) report TMA after multiple doses of the agent. Unfortunately, none of these cases had biopsy-proven kidney disease and most of the diagnoses were made clinically. A mechanistic link between PI and TMA may be mediated by the inhibition of the ubiquitination of IκB which prevents NF-κB from entering the nucleus and ultimately leads to decreased vascular endothelial growth factor production which has been linked to the development of TMA (16–19). In addition, a case of acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) with granuloma formation has been reported with bortezomib (20).
Carfilzomib is a tetrapeptide epoxyketone PI approved for the treatment of relapsed refractory MM (21). In a phase 2 study of this drug in 266 patients, AKI was reported in 25% of the patients. Although the majority of the kidney adverse effects were mild, progressive kidney disease was reported in 3.8% of patients, leading to discontinuation of the drug in two patients (22). There are now additional cases of AKI from carfilzomib reported in the literature (23–27). The possible mechanisms listed are diverse and summarized in Table 2. They range from prerenal insults, tumor lysis–like phenomenon, to biopsy-proven TMA (23–26). In the initial two cases (23,24), AKI was transient and was clinically consistent with a 'prerenal' insult. In addition, in one of the cases, N-acetylcysteine was helpful in ameliorating the severity of the carfilzomib-mediated kidney injury when the patient was rechallenged with the chemotherapy agent (24). Similar to bortezomib, carfilzomib has been associated with TMA with four reported cases in the literature (27–29). In the case published by Sullivan et al. (28), the patient developed TMA within a few months after receiving carfilzomib. The patient did not undergo a kidney biopsy and received three sessions of plasmapheresis for presumed thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, which was stopped once the ADAMTS13 levels returned to the normal range. Given the clinical improvement with stopping the drug and initiation of plasmapheresis, the authors speculate that plasmapheresis expedited the removal of protein-bound carfilzomib or another offending agent. Two more cases of biopsy-proven TMA with carfilzomib have been reported by Qaquish et al. (29). Both patients received plasmapheresis for several days with no improvement in the renal or hematologic parameters. ADAMTS13 levels were measured in both patients and were reported in the normal range. Interestingly, the authors measured von Willebrand factor multimers in the peripheral blood plasma samples and showed that none of the patients treated with carfilzomib accumulated ultra large von Willebrand factor multimers after treatment with carfilzomib. The authors speculate that carfilzomib, similar to bortezomib, causes TMA through a dose-dependent toxic mechanism in which plasmapheresis is unlikely to show any clinical benefit.
Recently, Yui et al. published the largest case series of PI induced TMA (30). The series by Yui et al. describes 11 patients from six centers around the world that developed TMA after either carfilzomib (eight cases) and or bortezomib (three cases) treatment. Six patients were diagnosed within 21 days of the initiation of the drug and the rest 6–17 months later. Diagnosis was made on the basis of lab values of lactate dehydrogenase, haptoglobin, schistocytes on blood smear, and presence of thrombocytopenia and anemia. Median creatinine was 3.12 mg/dl and five patients required dialysis. Two patients underwent a kidney biopsy which confirmed TMA. Four patients were treated with plasmapheresis and three with eculizumab. Eight of the 11 patients had complete resolution of TMA after discontinuation of the PI. Autoantibodies to the ADAMTS13 was an unlikely cause of the TMA in this series of patients given the normal ADAMTS13 levels. Yui et al. have suggested an immune-mediated mechanism accounting for the early onset TMA (<21 days) and dose-dependent toxicity for those cases that happen later during the course of treatment (30).
A recent phase 3 trial that studied carfilzomib versus low dose steroids with optional cyclophosphamide in relapsed MM (FOCUS) found grade 3 AKI in 8% in the carfilzomib arm compared with 3% in the control (31). Renal adverse events occurred more frequently in patients within the carfilzomib group compared with placebo (24% versus 9%). Overall, these events occurred more frequently in patients with lower creatinine clearance <30 ml/min and the majority of them had known renal manifestations of MM. In addition, hypertension (HTN) occurred in 15% of carfilzomib patients compared with 6% of the control (31).
Bortezomib, a boronate peptide, is a reversible inhibitor of the chymotrypsin-like activity of the 26S proteasome, whereas carfilzomib, a tetrapeptide epoxyketone PI, binds irreversibly and inhibits the chymotrypsin-like activity of the 20S proteasome. This structural difference could perhaps explain the different kidney-related side effects of these agents. Recent animal studies and clinical case reports with carfilzomib revealed that the drug increased the resting vasoconstricting tone and amplified the spasmogenic effect of different agents and also led to impairment of vasodilation by inducing endothelial dysfunction (32–35). Given the information from the FOCUS trial, and several more cases of HTN and TMA reported with carfilzomib as compared with bortezomib, it appears that carfilzomib is more nephrotoxic than bortezomib (31–35).
Ixazomib is a novel oral PI that is active in both the relapsed refractory setting and in newly diagnosed MM. On the basis of a recent randomized controlled trial in relapsed MM, ixazomib was recently approved in the United States for the treatment of relapsed myeloma. No known renal toxicities have been reported with this agent (36).
Immunomodulators (Thalidomide, Lenalidomide, and Pomalidomide)
IMiDs, which include thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide, are used for treatment of relapsed or recurrent myeloma. Their exact mechanism of action is unknown; however, they likely act via a variety of mechanisms including immune-modulation, antiangiogenic, anti-inflammatory, and antiproliferative effects (37). Thalidomide, the first generation IMiD, is metabolized via nonenzymatic hydrolysis and only <1% of unchanged drug is excreted in the urine (38). In the initial report showing thalidomide activity against MM, eight out of 84 patients had a >50% in serum creatinine. In these cases, the kidney injury was believed to be due to progression of underlying disease and not related to the drug (39). In clinical practice, the use of thalidomide has not been associated with nephrotoxicity.
The second generation IMiD lenalidomide has shown effectiveness against MM in two pivotal trials (40,41). There were no reports of kidney toxicity in either study although Weber et al. reported that 6.2% of patients in the lenalidomide group developed hypokalemia versus 1.1% in the placebo group (40). After lenalidomide was approved for treatment of MM, a number of reports have linked it to kidney dysfunction (42–47). In most patients, kidney disease developed without evidence of malignancy progression. Furthermore, one patient developed fanconi syndrome (42) and one patient had a drug reaction with eosinophilia, rash, and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome) (45). A case of minimal change disease was reported in a patient with Waldenström macroglobulinemia being treated with lenalidomide (47). The largest series of AKI associated with this drug was noted by Specter et al. (46), when they studied patients with amyloidosis. Twenty-seven of 41 patients (66%) studied at a single center with light chain amyloidosis developed kidney dysfunction during lenalidomide treatment. The kidney dysfunction was severe in 13 of these patients (32%); four of whom required initiation of dialysis (10%). The median time to kidney dysfunction after starting lenalidomide was 44 days (interquartile range, 15–108 days). Four of eight patients without underlying renal amyloidosis developed kidney dysfunction. Patients with severe kidney dysfunction were older and had a higher frequency of underlying renal amyloidosis, greater urinary protein excretion, and lower serum albumin (46).
Pomalidomide is another second generation IMiD. Of the three trials addressing its efficacy in MM, only one study reported high incidence of grade 3–4 kidney toxicity (11%) (48–50). One case of AKI and crystal nephropathy was attributed to pomalidomide. However, confounding factors included concurrent use of levofloxacin which may have contributed to both AKI and crystal formation (51).
In summary, both lenalidomide and pomalidomide have been associated with kidney dysfunction; however, clinicians must be careful when assessing patients with worsening kidney disease on IMiD as a number of other causes including progression of MM could be responsible for decline in kidney function.
BRAF Inhibitors (Vemurafenib and Dabrafenib)
The discovery of mutations in the BRAF oncogene led to an era of targeted therapy in patients with malignant melanoma, colorectal cancer, and lung cancer (52–55). BRAF mutations lead to constitutive activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, resulting in enhanced gene transcription, cellular proliferation, and oncogenic activity. The most common mutation encountered in patients with melanoma is V600E. Discovery of this mutation led to the approval of vemurafenib and dabrafenib for treatment of BRAF V600E mutation–positive melanomas. Use of these drugs in MM is limited to small studies (56,57). This is partly due to the low prevalence (<10%) of the BRAF V600E mutation in patients with myeloma (56–58).
Extrapolating the data from the use of BRAF inhibitors in melanoma patients, one can predict that this class of drugs may lead to adverse kidney outcomes in patients with MM. Specific toxicities have included tubular and interstitial damage (acute as well as chronic). The onset of injury varies, with some cases being reported within a few weeks of drug initiation and others occurring after a 1–2 month period. The kidney injury within weeks of drug initiation is likely allergic interstitial nephritis, whereas that occurring at a later period may be tubular toxicity (59–63). Overall, vemurafenib has a much higher rate of associated kidney injury as compared with dabrafenib (63). A recent review on this topic summarizes the kidney toxicities associated with BRAF inhibitors when used in melanoma patients (64).
MAPK Enzymes Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Enzymes Inhibitors
MAP2K kinases (MEK1 and MEK2) are attractive therapeutic targets in several cancers because they are essential in the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase enzymes (MEK)/MAPK pathway which when dysregulated leads to increased cell survival and metastasis (65,66). Trametinib (MEK inhibitor), by itself, has not been associated with nephrotoxicity. Monotherapy with this agent can lead to HTN, but cases of AKI and hyponatremia were noted more frequently in patients treated with combined trametinib and dabrafenib in patients with melanoma (67). Kidney toxicity may result from a combination effect with the BRAF inhibitors rather than a solo effect of an MEK inhibitor (68).
In MM, the MEK inhibitor AZD6244 (Selumetinib, ARRY-142886) has demonstrated in vitro and in vivo activity against myeloma cells (69–71). The most common toxicities associated were anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, diarrhea, fatigue, increased creatine phosphokinase, limb edema, and acneiform rash. There were three deaths (two from sepsis and one from AKI). Although the data are limited, kidney toxicities appear to be uncommon with this agent.
Signaling Lymphocytic Activation Molecule F7
Elotuzumab is a fully humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody targeted against signaling lymphocytic activation molecule F7 (SLAMF7, also called CS1 [cell-surface glycoprotein CD2 subset 1]) (72,73). CS1 belongs to a family of lymphocytic activation molecule surface glycoproteins. It has been shown that CS1 expression is present in malignant plasma cells at the gene and protein levels. In addition, high levels of CS1 were noted in patients with monoclonal gammopathies of undetermined significance, smoldering myeloma, plasmacytomas, and MM (72,73), making CS1 a compelling target for immunotherapy for MM. Interestingly, the expression of SLAMF7 was present in >95% of myeloma cells regardless of the cytogenetics of the myeloma cells (73).
Elotuzumab promotes death of myeloma cells by CS1-CS1 interaction between natural killer (NK) cells and myeloma cells (72). Elotuzumab was studied in 35 patients with relapsed/refractory MM (74). Although 44.1% of the study patients had serious adverse events, AKI was noted in only two patients (5.9%). One of the patients had severe AKI that required hemodialysis (74). It was also studied in combination with lenalidomide (75) with favorable results and AKI was not reported in that particular study. Further phase 3 studies have been initiated (76,77) with no known nephrotoxicities reported thus far.
Akt/Mammalian Target of Rapamycin Pathway Inhibitors
The phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase family is made up of a group of serine/threonine and lipid kinases that serve as the intracellular initiation point for several signaling cascades such as the G-coupled protein receptor. Through the production of phospho-inositol triphosphate3, the phosphorylated form of membrane-bound phosphoinositides, these pathways activate Akt, a serine-threonine kinase that has been implicated in oncogenesis (78,79). In one of these pathways, Akt indirectly activates the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway through the activity of the tuberous sclerosis complex 1/2. mTOR includes two distinct protein complexes, mTOR complex 1 and 2 (mTORC1 and mTORC2). Thus, Akt leads to activation of mTORC1 which subsequently leads to increased cellular proliferation. mTORC2 has been shown to be important in the regulation of cytoskeletal integrity (including that of the glomerular podocyte) (80–83). In one study higher levels of activated, phosphorylated Akt correlated with more advanced MM (84).
Perifosine is an alkylphospholipid that inhibits the Akt pathway (decreases Akt phosphorylation) leading to apoptosis of MM cells and also enhances the cytotoxic effects of other agents such as bortezomib (85,86). Potent Akt inhibitors are showing promise and are in development for the potential treatment of MM as well as several other cancers (87–90). Interestingly, and for unclear reasons, perifosine use was associated with a high rate of hypophosphatemia in the phase 1 trial (87).
mTOR inhibitors such as rapamycin, everolimus, and others have shown preclinical promise in the therapy of MM especially when combined with other therapies, with partial response rates as high as 33% (91–93). The extensive experience with mTOR inhibitors in solid organ transplantation as well as recent advances in the understanding of the role of the Akt/mTOR pathway in maintenance of podocyte viability leads to concerns about short- and long-term kidney toxicities with these agents (80,81). Recently, Canaud and colleagues identified the Akt pathway as critical to the maintenance of podocyte structure and integrity when under stress (such as with reduced nephron numbers) (80). Mechanistically, this pathway may account for the clinical observation of proteinuria with mTOR inhibitors (i.e., mTORC2 inhibition may decrease the amount of active, phosphorylated Akt and thus alter cytoskeletal integrity and promote podocyte apoptosis). Theoretically, the risk of proteinuria and podocyte injury could also be associated with Akt inhibitors as well as mTOR inhibitors, especially if these are not isoform specific. Ischemic preconditioning which experimentally protects the kidney tubules against subsequent ischemia-reperfusion may also rely on the Akt pathway (94). So far, the clinical experience with Akt inhibitors is limited to small trials with perifosine (95) with no reported nephrotoxicities.
Proteinuria and, more rarely, kidney dysfunction have been reported in patients taking mTOR inhibitors (96). The phenomena appear to be dose-dependent and reversible with cessation of the medication. The actual incidence of mTOR-induced proteinuria is likely low on the basis of analyses of clinical trial data. For instance, in 94 patients enrolled in four sirolimus trials there was one case of nephrotic-range proteinuria which remitted with drug withdrawal (97). In trials of everolimus for treatment of tuberous sclerosis–associated subependymal giant-cell astrocytomas and angiomyolipomas, the rate of proteinuria was 4% with drug and 8% with placebo treated patients (98). In terms of longer-term use and changes in GFR, extensive use in patients with calcineurin-inhibitor–induced renal allograft dysfunction has shown that mTOR inhibitors do not appear to be associated with any increased risk of kidney dysfunction (99–101). However, there are occasional case reports of mTOR inhibitor–associated glomerulopathy and acute tubular necrosis with newer agents such as temsirolimus, as well as an increased incidence in mTOR-associated rises in serum creatinine in a trial of temsirolimus versus IF-α or both in patients with advanced renal cell cancer (102,103).
More recently, dual mTORC1/2 kinase inhibitors are being studied in clinical trials. The advantage of these newer agents is that the mTORC2 activation of Akt is also inhibited by these agents and thus they may lead to more effective inhibition of cancer cell proliferation (104). Thus far, no kidney toxicity has been described with these agents but given the mechanisms of action, vigilance for these toxicities should be high.
Anti–IL-6 Monoclonal Antibodies in MM
IL-6 plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of MM. It is both an autocrine and paracrine growth factor contributing to the proliferation of myeloma cells as well as being involved in the inhibition of tumor cell apoptosis (105). Thus, blockade of IL-6 would seem a logical antimyeloma drug strategy and this has been achieved with chimeric anti–IL-6 monoclonal antibodies. Phase 2 studies with siltuximab, an anti–IL-6 monoclonal antibody, in patients with refractory or relapsed MM have been reported (106,107). Of note, siltuximab has received FDA approval for the treatment of Castleman disease where the drug has shown efficacy (108).
Specific kidney toxicity of siltuximab has not been reported. However, several electrolyte disorders appear to be more common in patients taking this medication as compared with placebo or other agents, at least in one trial. For instance, hyperuricemia (13%) and hyperkalemia (4%) were seen in the trial with siltuximab in Castleman disease (109). However, these adverse events were not reported in other trials (106,107). Given the limited experience with this drug, more studies will be needed to confidently exclude kidney-specific adverse effects.
Programmed Cell Death–1 and Ligand Target in MM
This pathway includes two proteins called programmed death–1 (PD-1), which is expressed on the surface of immune cells, and programmed death ligand–1 (PD-L1), which is expressed on cancer cells. When PD-1 and PD-L1 join together, they form a biochemical "shield" protecting tumor cells from being destroyed by the immune system. Anti–PD-1 agents are humanized monoclonal antibodies that bind the PD-1 molecule, which are present on tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and regulatory T cells. They prevent the engagement of PD-1 to its ligand on tumor cells (PD-L1 and PD-L2) thereby asserting antineoplastic activity. The object of blocking programmed cell death is to restore the activation of the immune system directed to tumor cells. These immune check point inhibitors are being considered for treatment of MM (110).
Nivolumab was the first anti–PD-1 antibody, tested initially in melanoma. In December 2014, the FDA granted an accelerated approval to nivolumab for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and renal cell cancer (111,112). In one trial (111), there was an increased incidence of elevated creatinine noted in the nivolumab-treated group as compared with the chemotherapy-treated group (13% versus 9%). Steroids helped resolve the renal dysfunction in 50% of the cases. The FDA label has recommendations (113) to start steroids as the creatinine rises with the presumption that AKI is immune-mediated. Only recently, there were several biopsy-proven cases of AIN related to nivolumab described in two case series (114,115). All patients were also on other drugs (proton pump inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) linked to AIN, but in most cases, the use of these drugs preceded anti–PD-1 antibody therapy. The authors believe that PD-1 inhibitor therapy may release suppression of T cell immunity that normally permits renal tolerance of drugs known to be associated with AIN.
Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is another monoclonal antibody therapy designed to directly block the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands. This drug has been used in melanoma and hematologic malignancies since 2014 (116). In the initial trials, AIN was confirmed by kidney biopsy in two out of three patients with AKI. All three patients fully recovered kidney function after treatment with high-dose corticosteroids (≥40 mg prednisone or equivalent per day) followed by a corticosteroid taper (116–119). Shirali et al. (114) and Cortazar et al. (115) reported several biopsy-proven cases of AIN with this agent. Given the immune-mediated mechanism of action of this drug, AIN will likely be seen when these agents are used to treat MM as well.
Anti–Killer Ig-Like Receptor Agents in Myeloma
NK cells, members of the innate immune system, are important players of host immunity in controlling various cancers. NK cell function, including cytotoxicity and cytokine release, is governed by a balance between signals received from surface inhibitory and activating receptors (120). Class 1 HLA molecules, present in all tissue types, bind to the inhibitory killer Ig-like receptors (KIRs) on NK cells to prevent inadvertent activation against normal tissues (121). Upon malignant transformation of cells, HLA class 1 expression is reduced or lost, resulting in escape from antitumor T cells. However, a mature NK cell can still be activated due to lack of binding of inhibitory KIRs by MHC class 1, resulting in unsuppressed activating signals (122). NK cells directly kill tumor cells via different pathways including release of cytoplasmic granules containing perforin and granzyme which cause cell lysis, or via release of TNF leading to cell apoptosis (123). Lirilumab, or IPH2101 (formerly 1–7F9), is a human, IgG4 monoclonal antibody against common inhibitory KIRs (KIR2DL-1, -2, and -3), that blocks KIR-ligand interaction and augments NK cell killing of tumor cells. So far, this new agent has been tried in treatment of refractory or relapsed myeloma as a single agent (124) and in combination with other immune-modulating agents (125).
One patient with a 10-year history of MM and seven prior lines of therapy developed kidney failure requiring dialysis after receiving the first dose of 0.075 mg/kg of the IPH2101. It was thought to be related to the study drug or disease progression. The same patient also developed hyperkalemia and hyperuricemia. None of the patients developed autoimmunity. IPH2101 has been used with lenalidomide in 15 patients with myeloma at varying doses (113). No cases of AKI were reported, but one patient developed hypophosphatemia. Studies using this agent in treatment of other hematopoietic and metastatic solid organ cancers are underway. In summary, there is limited clinical data regarding use of anti-KIR antibodies. Kidney toxicity appears to be rare but until additional data are obtained it would be prudent to pay attention to kidney function and electrolytes including serum uric acid and phosphorus when using these agents.
Other Agents against MM
Lin et al. described relatively high expression of CD38 on myeloma cells (126); this in combination with its role in cell signaling identified CD38 as a potential therapeutic antibody target for the treatment of MM. A humanized anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, SAR650984, is currently in clinical development (127,128), whereas daratumumab, a human IgG1κ monoclonal antibody against CD38, was recently approved by the FDA for treatment of previously treated MM (129). So far, clinical trials have not reported any clinically significant kidney adverse events associated with the use of CD38 monoclonal antibodies.
A typical characteristic of human cancers, including MM, is the deregulation of DNA methylation and post-translational modifications, especially histone acetylation, leading to deregulation of gene transcription (130). The histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases (HDACs) act in opposition to each other to regulate acetylation levels of histones and nonhistone proteins (130). HDAC inhibitors (HDACi) inhibit the removal of acetyl groups by HDAC enzymes, leading to maintenance of histone and nonhistone protein acetylation, accumulation of histones and other proteins, and reactivation of epigenetically silenced tumor suppressor genes, causing cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis (131). Two HDACi have been approved for various cancers in the United States: vorinostat (132) for cutaneous T cell lymphoma and panobinostat for MM (133). Completed clinical trials so far have not reported any clinically significant kidney adverse effects associated with HDACi use; there is, however, significant preclinical evidence supporting the beneficial effects of HDACi in various models of kidney disease. In vitro, HDACs are implicated in renal fibrogenesis, possibly through inflammatory and profibrotic gene regulations and cell signaling pathways; there is also evidence for a regulatory role of HDACs in the pathogenesis of polycystic kidney disease (134). Wang et al. (135) demonstrated an upregulation of HDACs in podocytes treated with advanced glycation end products, high glucose, and TGF-β (common detrimental factors in diabetic nephropathy), suggesting a contribution of HDACs to podocyte injury. Liu et al. demonstrated that HDAC inhibition attenuated development of renal fibrosis and suppressed activation and proliferation of renal interstitial fibroblasts (136). These studies suggest a future potential for HDAC inhibition in treatment of renal diseases.
FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database Review of Antimyeloma Agents
As part of this review, we evaluated all kidney toxicities reported with the novel antimyeloma agents discussed above to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS), from the third quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of 2015. Table 4 summarizes our findings. Lenolidomide, everolimus, and bortezomib were the top three offenders with AKI as the most common finding reported, possibly due to much greater use of these drugs. Importantly, the toxicities reported here are not just for when these agents are used in MM, but for other cancer treatments as well. Despite the limitations of FAERS (Table 4), it still provides valuable information regarding the renal adverse effects of these therapies.
Common reported renal adverse reactions to the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System database from the third quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2015 for antimyeloma agents discussed in this review
The use of novel targeted therapies has led to significant improvements in survival and overall prognosis with many malignancies. However, there is evolving knowledge of renal adverse events with these agents. Timely recognition of these toxicities can aid in the proper management of patients with myeloma. In this review, we recognized that there are multiple ways novel antimyeloma therapies can affect renal function. In addition, newer targeted agents are entering clinical trials. With the advent of novel targeted therapies and their use in myeloma, nephrologists and hematologists need to be more vigilant of the renal toxicity potential of these agents.
A.E.'s work is supported by the Intramural Research Program of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health. A.A., M.D., A.E., I.G.G., D.M., M.R., and K.D.J. are members of the American Society of Nephrology Onconephrology Forum. R.W. is an expert member of Cancer and Kidney International Network (CKIN) and K.D.J. is part of the governing body of CKIN. I.G.G. was funded in part through the National Institute of Health (Bethesda, MD)/National Cancer Institute (Bethesda, MD) Cancer Center Support Grant P30 CA008748; I.G.G. owns Pfizer Inc. stock and served on the Advisory Board for Astra Zeneca Inc.
We thank Dr. Vipulbhai Sakhiya for the information provided from the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System regarding the agents. We thank Chin Y. Liu, director, Oncology Pharmacy Residency Karmanos Cancer Center, for her help in the dosing section of the manuscript.
Bariş S,
Ozdil M,
Topal N,
Doğru O,
Kiliçaslan I,
: Acute promyelocytic leukemia treated with idarubicin complicated by focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 32: e82–e84, 2010pmid:20048687
: Collapsing glomerulopathy following anthracycline therapy. Am J Kidney Dis 61: 778–781, 2013pmid:23219112
: Weekly cyclophosphamide and alternate-day prednisone: an effective, convenient, and well-tolerated oral treatment for relapsed multiple myeloma after autologous stem cell transplantation. Mayo Clin Proc 80: 1578–1582, 2005pmid:16342650
: DCEP for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma after therapy with novel agents. Ann Hematol 93: 99–105, 2014pmid:24240976
: Incorporating bortezomib into upfront treatment for multiple myeloma: early results of total therapy 3. Br J Haematol 138: 176–185, 2007pmid:17593024
: Proteasome inhibitors as potential novel anticancer agents. Drug Resist Updat 2: 215–223, 1999pmid:11504494
: The proteasome inhibitor PS-341 in cancer therapy. Clin Cancer Res 5: 2638–2645, 1999pmid:10499643
Anderson KC; Assessment of Proteasome Inhibition for Extending Remissions (APEX) Investigators
: Thrombotic microangiopathy after treatment with bortezomib and dexamethasone in a patient with multiple myeloma. Int J Hematol 88: 248–250, 2008pmid:18636313
: Multiple myeloma presenting with a fever of unknown origin and development of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura post-bortezomib. Intern Med J 41: 348–350, 2011pmid:21507163
Mehta N, Saxena A, Niesvizky R: Bortezomib-induced thrombotic thrombocytopaenic purpura [published online ahead of print August 1, 2012]. BMJ Case Rep doi:10.1136/bcr-2012-006461, 2012
: Thrombotic microangiopathy complicating bortezomib-based therapy for multiple myeloma. Leuk Lymphoma 56: 2185–2186, 2015pmid:25547654
: Targeting NF-κB in infantile hemangioma-derived stem cells reduces VEGF-A expression. Angiogenesis 13: 327–335, 2010pmid:20872175
: Inhibition of NF-kappaB activity decreases the VEGF mRNA expression in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. Breast Cancer Res Treat 73: 237–243, 2002pmid:12160329
: NF-κB inhibition by bortezomib permits IFN-γ-activated RIP1 kinase-dependent necrosis in renal cell carcinoma. Mol Cancer Ther 12: 1568–1578, 2013pmid:23657944
: Thrombotic microangiopathy associated with proteasome inhibitors. Clin Kidney J 8: 632–636, 2015pmid:26413293
: Bortezomib-induced acute interstitial nephritis. Nephrol Dial Transplant 30: 1225–1229, 2015pmid:26109684
Chidella S,
Mailloux L,
: Carfilzomib-related acute kidney injury. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol 11: 604–605, 2013pmid:24518527
: Carfilzomib-related acute kidney injury may be prevented by N-acetyl-L-cysteine. J Oncol Pharm Pract 21: 313–316, 2015pmid:24748581
Shely RN,
Ratliff PD
: Carfilzomib-associated tumor lysis syndrome. Pharmacotherapy 34: e34–e37, 2014pmid:24390940
: Acute Tubular Necrosis in a Patient With Myeloma Treated With Carfilzomib. KI Reports 1: 89–92, 2016
: Carfilzomib associated thrombotic microangiopathy initially treated with therapeutic plasma exchange. J Clin Apher 30: 308–310, 2015pmid:25413611
: Renal thrombotic microangiopathy and podocytopathy associated with the use of carfilzomib in a patient with multiple myeloma. BMC Nephrol 15: 156, 2014pmid:25267524
: Carfilzomib: A cause of drug induced thrombotic microangiopathy. Transfus Apheresis Sci 54: 401–404, 2016
: Proteasome inhibitor associated thrombotic microangiopathy. Am J Hematol 91: E348–E352, 2016pmid:27286661
Van Droogenbroeck J,
Yehuda DB,
Gasztonyi Z,
Górnik S,
: A randomized phase III study of carfilzomib vs low-dose corticosteroids with optional cyclophosphamide in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (FOCUS) [published online ahead of print July 15, 2016]. Leukemia doi:10.1038/leu.2016.176, 2016pmid:27416912
: Nontoxic proteasome inhibition activates a protective antioxidant defense response in endothelial cells. Free Radic Biol Med 40: 2232–2241, 2006pmid:16785037
: Long-term up-regulation of eNOS and improvement of endothelial function by inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. FASEB J 18: 272–279, 2004pmid:14769821
Scarabelli TM, Chen-Scarabelli C, Gavazzoni M, Sahni G, Saravolatz L, Raddino R, Narula J: Cardiovascular effects of carfilzomib, a new proteosome inhibitor, on coronary resistencies, vascular tone and vascular reactivity [published online ahead of print March 17, 2015]. J Am Coll Cardiol doi:10.1016/S0735-1097(15)62143-X
Hajje D
: Case series discussion of cardiac and vascular events following carfilzomib treatment: possible mechanism, screening, and monitoring. BMC Cancer 14: 915, 2014pmid:25471129
FDA approves Ninlaro, new oral medication to treat multiple myeloma. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm473771.htm. Accessed August 2, 2016
: Mechanism of action of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDS) in multiple myeloma. Leukemia 24: 22–32, 2010pmid:19907437
Chung F, Lu J, Palmer BD, Kestell P, Browett P, Baguley BC, Tingle M, Ching LM: Thalidomide pharmacokinetics and metabolite formation in mice, rabbits, and multiple myeloma patients. Clin Cancer Res 10: 5949–5956, 2004
: Antitumor activity of thalidomide in refractory multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 341: 1565–1571, 1999pmid:10564685
Knight RD; Multiple Myeloma (009) Study Investigators
: Lenalidomide plus dexamethasone for relapsed multiple myeloma in North America. N Engl J Med 357: 2133–2142, 2007pmid:18032763
Knight RD; Multiple Myeloma (010) Study Investigators
: Lenalidomide plus dexamethasone for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. N Engl J Med 357: 2123–2132, 2007pmid:18032762
: Reversible Fanconi syndrome due to lenalidomide. NDT Plus 1: 215–217, 2008pmid:25983885
: Azotemia associated with use of lenalidomide in plasma cell dyscrasias. Leuk Lymphoma 49: 1108–1115, 2008pmid:18452093
: Lenalidomide-induced acute interstitial nephritis. Oncologist 15: 961–964, 2010pmid:20709889
Shaaban H, Layne T, Guron G. A case of DRESS (drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) with acute interstitial nephritis secondary to lenalidomide. J Oncol Pharm Pract 20: 302–304, 2013
: Kidney dysfunction during lenalidomide treatment for AL amyloidosis. Nephrol Dial Transplant 26: 881–886, 2011pmid:20693160
: Minimal change disease and lenalidomide. Am J Kidney Dis 62: 844, 2013pmid:23891359
: Pomalidomide alone or in combination with low-dose dexamethasone in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma: a randomized phase 2 study. Blood 123: 1826–1832, 2014pmid:22833546
: Pomalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone versus high-dose dexamethasone alone for patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (MM-003): a randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 14: 1055–1066, 2013pmid:24007748
Thielemans B,
Facon T; Intergroupe Francophone du Myélome
: Pomalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone is active and well tolerated in bortezomib and lenalidomide-refractory multiple myeloma: Intergroupe Francophone du Myélome 2009-02. Blood 121: 1968–1975, 2013pmid:23319574
: A case of acute kidney injury from crystal nephropathy secondary to pomalidomide and levofloxacin use. J Oncol Pharm Pract 22: 357–360, 2016pmid:25591868
: Targeting the BRAF V600E mutation in multiple myeloma. Cancer Discov 3: 862–869, 2013pmid:23612012
: BRAF gene is not mutated in plasma cell leukemia and multiple myeloma. Leukemia 17: 2238–2240, 2003pmid:12931219
: BRAF mutations in hairy-cell leukemia. N Engl J Med 364: 2305–2315, 2011pmid:21663470
: Dabrafenib in BRAF-mutated metastatic melanoma: a multicentre, open-label, phase 3 randomised controlled trial. Lancet 380: 358–365, 2012pmid:22735384
: Initial genome sequencing and analysis of multiple myeloma. Nature 471: 467–472, 2011pmid:21430775
: BRAF V600E mutation in early-stage multiple myeloma: good response to broad acting drugs and no relation to prognosis. Blood Cancer J 5: e299, 2015pmid:25794135
: Targeting BRAF in multiple myeloma. Cancer Discov 3: 840–842, 2013pmid:23928771
: Vemurafenib significantly decreases glomerular filtration rate. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol 28: 978–979, 2014pmid:24267914
Regnier-Rosencher E,
Gressier L,
: Acute kidney injury in patients with severe rash on vemurafenib treatment for metastatic melanomas. Br J Dermatol 169: 934–938, 2013pmid:23909652
: Acute renal failure associated with the new BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib: a case series of 8 patients. Cancer 120: 2158–2163, 2014pmid:24737576
Teuma C, Perier-Muzet M, Pelletier S, Nouvier M, Amini-Adl M, Dijoud F, Duru G, Thomas L, Fouque D, Laville M, Dalle S: New insights into renal toxicity of the B-RAF inhibitor, vemurafenib, in patients with metastatic melanoma. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 78(2): 419–426, 2016
Jhaveri KD, Sakhiya V, Fishbane S: BRAF inhibitor related nephrotoxicity, JAMA Oncol 1: 1133–1134, 2015
: Renal effects of BRAF inhibitors: a systematic review by the Cancer and the Kidney International Network. Clin Kidney J 9: 245–251, 2016pmid:26985376
: Targeted inhibition of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway with AZD6244 (ARRY-142886) in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. Mol Cancer Ther 6: 138–146, 2007pmid:17237274
Ganchev H,
: A phase II, open-label, randomized study to assess the efficacy and safety of AZD6244 (ARRY-142886) versus pemetrexed in patients with non-small cell lung cancer who have failed one or two prior chemotherapeutic regimens. J Thorac Oncol 5: 1630–1636, 2010pmid:20802351
: Combined BRAF and MEK inhibition in melanoma with BRAF V600 mutations. N Engl J Med 367: 1694–1703, 2012pmid:23020132
Schreuer MS,
: Granulomatous nephritis and dermatitis in a patient with BRAF V600E mutant metastatic melanoma treated with dabrafenib and trametinib. Melanoma Res 25: 550–554, 2015pmid:26512791
Rumizen M,
: Targeting MEK induces myeloma-cell cytotoxicity and inhibits osteoclastogenesis. Blood 110: 1656–1663, 2007pmid:17510321
: Targeting MEK1/2 blocks osteoclast differentiation, function and cytokine secretion in multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 139: 55–63, 2007pmid:17854307
Kmieciak M
, Bose P, Badros AZ, Voorhees PM, Baz R, Korde N, Lin HY, Chen JQ, Hermann M, Xi L, Raffield M, Zhao X, Wan W, Tombes MB, Shrader E, Weir-Wiggins C, Sankala H, Hogan KT, Doyle A, Annunziata CM, Wellons M, Roberts JD, Sullivan D, Landgren O, Grant S: A Phase II Trial of AZD6244 (Selumetinib, ARRY-142886), an Oral MEK1/2 Inhibitor, in Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma. Clin Cancer Res 22: 1067–1075, 2016pmid:26446942
: Anti-CS1 humanized monoclonal antibody HuLuc63 inhibits myeloma cell adhesion and induces antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity in the bone marrow milieu. Blood 112: 1329–1337, 2008pmid:17906076
: CS1, a potential new therapeutic antibody target for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Clin Cancer Res 14: 2775–2784, 2008pmid:18451245
: A phase 1, multicenter, open-label, dose escalation study of elotuzumab in patients with advanced multiple myeloma. Blood 120: 552–559, 2012pmid:22184404
: Elotuzumab in combination with lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 30: 1953–1959, 2012pmid:22547589
Richardson P; ELOQUENT-2 Investigators
: Elotuzumab Therapy for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma. N Engl J Med 373: 621–631, 2015pmid:26035255
Lonial S, Dimopoulos MA, Palumbo A, White D, Grosicki S, Spicka I, Walter-Croneck A, Moreau P, Mateos MV, Magen-Nativ H, Belch A, Reece DE, Beksac M, Taniwaki M, Röllig C, Singhal AK, Katz J, Bleickardt EW, Poulart V, Richardson PG: ELOQUENT-2: a phase 3, randomized, open-label study of lenalidomide/dexamethasone with/without elotuzumab in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Presented at the 2015 Annual Meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), Chicago, IL, May 29–June 2, 2015
: Targeting the phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathway in cancer. Nat Rev Drug Discov 8: 627–644, 2009pmid:19644473
: Status of PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibitors in lymphoma. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk 14: 335–342, 2014pmid:24650973
: The podocyte under stress: AKT2 to the rescue. Am J Kidney Dis 63: 555–557, 2014pmid:24480654
: mTOR inhibition induces upstream receptor tyrosine kinase signaling and activates Akt. Cancer Res 66: 1500–1508, 2006pmid:16452206
: The AKT kinase is activated in multiple myeloma tumor cells. Blood 98: 2853–2855, 2001pmid:11675360
: Inhibition of Akt induces significant downregulation of survivin and cytotoxicity in human multiple myeloma cells. Br J Haematol 138: 783–791, 2007pmid:17760810
: Perifosine, an oral bioactive novel alkylphospholipid, inhibits Akt and induces in vitro and in vivo cytotoxicity in human multiple myeloma cells. Blood 107: 4053–4062, 2006pmid:16418332
Jakubowiak AJ, Richardson PG, Zimmerman T, Alsina M, Kaufman JL, Kandarpa M, Kraftson S, Ross CW, Harvey C, Hideshima T, Sportelli P, Poradosu E, Gardner L, Giusti K, Anderson KC: Perifosine plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed and relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma: a Phase I Multiple Myeloma Research Consortium study. Br J Haematol 158(4): 472–480
: Perifosine plus bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma previously treated with bortezomib: results of a multicenter phase I/II trial. J Clin Oncol 29: 4243–4249, 2011pmid:21990396
: AKT as a therapeutic target in multiple myeloma. Expert Opin Ther Targets 18: 897–915, 2014pmid:24905897
: Selective and potent Akt inhibition triggers anti-myeloma activities and enhances fatal endoplasmic reticulum stress induced by proteasome inhibition. Cancer Res 74(16): 4458–4469, 2014
: Molecularly targeted therapies in multiple myeloma [published online ahead of print April 16, 2014]. Leukemia Res Treat doi: 10.1155/2014/976567pmid:24829804
Dollard A,
: Weekly bortezomib in combination with temsirolimus in relapsed or relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma: a multicentre, phase 1/2, open-label, dose-escalation study. Lancet Oncol 12: 263–272, 2011pmid:21345726
: A phase I dose-escalation study to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary efficacy of the dual mTORC1/mTORC2 kinase inhibitor CC-223 in patients with advanced solid tumors or multiple myeloma. Cancer 121: 3481–3490, 2015pmid:26177599
: Previous ischemia and reperfusion injury results in resistance of the kidney against subsequent ischemia and reperfusion insult in mice; a role for the Akt signal pathway. Nephrol Dial Transplant 27: 3762–3770, 2012pmid:22555250
: Perifosine, an oral, anti-cancer agent and inhibitor of the Akt pathway: mechanistic actions, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, and clinical activity. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol 8: 623–633, 2012pmid:22512706
: Safety considerations of mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors in tuberous sclerosis complex and renal transplantation. J Clin Pharmacol 55: 368–376, 2015pmid:25402866
: Everolimus for angiomyolipoma associated with tuberous sclerosis complex or sporadic lymphangioleiomyomatosis (EXIST-2): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 381: 817–824, 2013pmid:23312829
: Sirolimus-based therapy with or without cyclosporine: long-term follow-up in renal transplant patients. Transplant Proc 37: 693–696, 2005pmid:15848504
Schena FP; Sirolimus Renal Function Study Group
Neylan JF; Sirolimus High-Risk Study Group
: Comparison of sirolimus plus tacrolimus versus sirolimus plus cyclosporine in high-risk renal allograft recipients: results from an open-label, randomized trial. Transplantation 86: 1187–1195, 2008pmid:19005398
Boostandoot E,
: Temsirolimus-induced glomerulopathy. Oncology 76: 170–172, 2009pmid:19212144
Motzer RJ; Global ARCC Trial
: Temsirolimus, interferon alfa, or both for advanced renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med 356: 2271–2281, 2007pmid:17538086
: Targeting the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway--beyond rapalogs. Oncotarget 1: 530–543, 2010pmid:21317449
: The biology of interleukin-6. Blood 74: 1–10, 1989pmid:2473791
Kranenburg B,
: A phase 2 multicentre study of siltuximab, an anti-interleukin-6 monoclonal antibody, in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. Br J Haematol 161: 357–366, 2013pmid:23432640
: A phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of siltuximab (anti-IL-6 mAb) and bortezomib versus bortezomib alone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. Am J Hematol 90: 42–49, 2015pmid:25294016
: FDA approval: siltuximab for the treatment of patients with multicentric Castleman disease. Clin Cancer Res 21: 950–954, 2015pmid:25601959
: Siltuximab for multicentric Castleman's disease: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 15: 966–974, 2014pmid:25042199
Kearl TJ, Jing W, Gershan JA, Johnson BD: PD-1/PD-L1 Blockade after Transient Lymphodepletion to Treat Myeloma. J Immunol 190: 5620–5628, 2013
: Nivolumab in previously untreated melanoma without BRAF mutation. N Engl J Med 372: 320–330, 2015pmid:25399552
: Nivolumab versus Everolimus in Advanced Renal-Cell Carcinoma. N Engl J Med 373: 1803–1813, 2015pmid:26406148
Nivolumab Package Insert. Available at: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2014/125554lbl.pdf. Accessed Jan 1, 2016
Cortazar FB, Marrone KA, Troxell ML, Ralto KM, Hoenig MP, Brahmer JR, Le DT, Lipson EJ, Glezerman IG, Wolchok J, Cornell LD, Feldman P, Stokes MB, Zapata SA, Hodi FS, Ott PA, Yamashita M, Leaf DE: Clinico-pathological features of acute kidney injury associated with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Kidney Int 90: 638–647, 2016
Pembrolizumab package insert. Available at: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2014/125514lbl.pdf. Accessed Jan 1, 2016
Ribas A; KEYNOTE-006 investigators
: Pembrolizumab versus Ipilimumab in Advanced Melanoma. N Engl J Med 372: 2521–2532, 2015pmid:25891173
: Pembrolizumab versus investigator-choice chemotherapy for ipilimumab-refractory melanoma (KEYNOTE-002): a randomised, controlled, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 16: 908–918, 2015pmid:26115796
: Anti-PD1 following ipilimumab for mucosal melanoma: durable tumor response associated with severe hypothyroidism and rhabdomyolysis. Cancer Immunol Res 2: 15–18, 2014pmid:24778161
: Human natural killer cell development and biology. Blood Rev 20: 123–137, 2006pmid:16364519
: The Application of Natural Killer Cell Immunotherapy for the Treatment of Cancer. Front Immunol 6: 578, 2015pmid:26635792
: Natural killer cell biology: an update and future directions. J Allergy Clin Immunol 132: 536–544, 2013pmid:23906377
Rafi-Janajreh A,
: Role of spontaneous and interleukin-2-induced natural killer cell activity in the cytotoxicity and rejection of Fas+ and Fas- tumor cells. Blood 92: 4248–4255, 1998pmid:9834230
: A phase 1 trial of the anti-KIR antibody IPH2101 in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Blood 120: 4324–4333, 2012pmid:23033266
: A Phase I Trial of the Anti-KIR Antibody IPH2101 and Lenalidomide in Patients with Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma. Clin Cancer Res 21: 4055–4061, 2015pmid:25999435
: Flow cytometric immunophenotypic analysis of 306 cases of multiple myeloma. Am J Clin Pathol 121: 482–488, 2004pmid:15080299
Martin TG, Hsu K, Strickland SA et al. A phase I trial of SAR650984, a CD38 monoclonal antibody, in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 32: 5s (abstr 8532), 2014
Martin TG, Hsu K, Charpentier E, Vij R, Baz RC, Benson DM, Lendvai N: A phase Ib dose escalation trial of SAR650984 (Anti-CD38 mAb) in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 32: 5s (abstr 8512), 2014
"FDA approves Darzalex for patients with previously treated multiple myeloma" November 16, 2015. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm472875.htm. Accessed June 20, 2016
: The role of histone deacetylases (HDACs) in human cancer. Mol Oncol 1: 19–25, 2007pmid:19383284
: Panobinostat for the Treatment of Multiple Myeloma. Clin Cancer Res 21: 4767–4773, 2015pmid:26362997
Available at: http://www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/CentersOffices/OfficeofMedicalProductsandTobacco/CDER/ucm094952.htm. Accessed June 20, 2016
Available at: http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm435296.htm. Accessed June 20, 2016
You are going to email the following Renal Toxicities of Novel Agents Used for Treatment of Multiple Myeloma
Rimda Wanchoo, Ala Abudayyeh, Mona Doshi, Amaka Edeani, Ilya G. Glezerman, Divya Monga, Mitchell Rosner, Kenar D. Jhaveri
Bactroban is one of the commercial names for the medication Mupirocin available in a form of ointment and cream for local skin infections. It can be used by adults and in children older than one year, as well as breastfeeding women to heal the nipples. You can find out how and when to use the medication from our comprehensive guide below.
Bactroban is one of the names Mupirocin medication is sold under. It is an antibacterial and bactericidal means of a wide spectrum of action for external application. The brand name Bactroban is owned by a certain pharmaceutical company but the formula is not protected by the know-how and can be used by all other drug-making companies. Therefore, you can buy Bactroban made by another company several times cheaper but do not be surprised that it will have another name on the tube. What you have pay attention to is the name of the active ingredient which is always indicated below the commercial name and should read Mupirocin.
The drug is utilized locally for the therapy of skin infections such as impetigo, folliculitis, furunculosis, ecthyma; secondary skin infections including infected eczema, infected injuries, minor (hospital-free) wounds and burns; prevention of bacterial infection of small wounds, cuts and other skin lesions.
The medication can also be applied intranasally for the locally-spread infections of local infections of the nasal cavity, caused by susceptible to Mupirocin pathogens.
The drug is effective against a broad spectrum of pathogens but there are some of them that are resistant to it. Therefore, if you suffer from a severe skin infection or even after the course of Bactroban use you still suffer from the same symptoms, you must undergo the clinical tests to find out the reason behind your disease. Naturally, it’s better to do susceptibility tests before using the drug as it can save you your time and health.
The medication comes in a form of cream and ointment which can be used as a monotherapy and as a part of complex therapy.
People who want to save on the therapy usually look for a way to buy Generic Bactroban, i.e. the medicine with the same composition but made by another company. And they are right – there is no point of paying more money for the known brand when you can get the same effect and quality at a lower price.
Generic medicines are made and marketed for the purpose of making all modern medicines within anyone’s means. You should understand that the goal of their creation was mainly for the underdeveloped and developing countries where the incomes are greatly lower than in the developed world. However, with the ridiculously high prices for treatment in the developed world, for instance, in the U.S., more and more people from those countries also look for the ways to get cheaper treatment.
You don’t have to worry about the quality of the medication and its effectiveness as long as you get the generic from a reputable drugstore like ours and see that the active substance of the brand-name drug corresponds to the one indicated on the package of generic. If you can’t see that info, our pharmacists will gladly help you.
Bactroban is an antimicrobial agent for topical use. The composition of the drug includes the active ingredient Mupirocin which is a broad-spectrum antibiotic developed specifically for external use. Mupirocin inhibits protein synthesis in the bacterial cell due to the oppression of isoleucine transport RNA (ribonucleic acid) - synthetase. There is no cross-resistance between Mupirocin and other antimicrobial agents. Mupirocin has a bacteriostatic effect (stop the spread of bacteria), with an increase in the dose of it renders a bactericidal effect (kills bacteria).
In the external application the systemic absorption of the medication is insignificant. The part of it which enters the blood circulation is excreted by the kidneys.
When the medication is applied to the areas with the compromised integrity of the skin, as well as when it is applied under the pressure bandages, the penetration of the active ingredient into deep tissues increases.
Polyethylene glycol, which is part of the ointment for ointment, can be absorbed through the damaged skin, and since it is excreted by the kidneys, it should be used with caution in the presence of severe kidney failure. The nasal ointment cannot be used in ophthalmology.
Here you can find the general instruction for the medication use but please consult a specialist, preferably, dermatologist before you buy Mupirocin and start using it to be sure that you are choosing the right treatment and do not require other therapy.
Before the use, you need to clean the skin area on which you plan to apply the product. The medication is aimed at the external topical use. It is recommended to apply it with gauze or cotton swab. After you apply the ointment, the skin can be covered with a bandage. After the medication use, you should wash your hands to avoid getting the cream in the eyes.
The duration of the therapy is established by a doctor. Usually, it is recommended to apply the ointment up to three times a day. The recommended treatment course length is from seven to ten days.
People with impaired kidney function do not require dose adjustments yet in the application of the ointment on large areas of open wounds increases its penetration into the blood which should be considered during the treatment.
In general, the drug is well tolerated. However, some negative reactions can still occur if you buy Generic Mupirocin and start using it. They include skin itching or burning, eczema, erythema, allergic reactions, nausea, pain in the stomach, headache, and others.
If the negative symptoms are severe, make sure to inform your doctor about them and stop using the medication.
The medication must not be used by people with individual intolerance of the active or additional elements of the drug.
The ointment must not be used for children younger than two months. The crème must not be used for children under one year.
The drug in any form must be cautiously used by people of old age and people with severe kidney dysfunction as there is a risk of systemic absorption.
You can order Bactroban and use it if you are breastfeeding and apply it to heal the cracks in the nipples but it is encouraged to thoroughly clean the skin of the breast from the remnants of the ointment before feeding the baby (it is recommended to wash the skin with soap using a large amount of running water).
You can use the drug with other medicines for oral intake if your doctor approves. But you must not use other ointments or other topical means on the same skin areas. If your doctor prescribes you to use it along with other topical drugs, make sure to use these drugs with a thirty-minute interval between applications.
There is a very low risk of the medication overdose if you use it locally. If you accidentally swallowed the cream or ointment, you should take activated carbon and induce vomiting.
When you order Generic Bactroban in a form of cream you should remember that you can store it for one and a half years after the date of its production.
Do freeze neither cream nor ointment and make sure they are stored at the temperature below 25C or 77F.
If your local drugstores sell the medication at a high price, you can order Mupirocin from our med store and save significantly. Even paying for the shipping you can pay much less money for the same medicine.
All orders of Mupirocin arrive in discrete unmarked parcels. We leave the shipment description blank.
Stage 1 Chronic Kidney Disease 2019 • Kidney Disease Authority
Stage 1 Chronic Kidney Disease 2019
Stage 1 kidney disease is when there is kidney damage with mild loss of kidney function, eGFR of 90-120. View ckd stage 1 symptoms and treatment options.
There are five stages of chronic kidney disease, determined by the rate that the kidneys filter blood (called the glomerular filtration rate, GFR), with Stage 1 being.
N Engl J Med. 2001;345(12):870-878. 8 Bailey RA, Wang Y, Zhu V, Rupnow MF. Chronic kidney disease in US adults with type 2 diabetes: an updated national estimate of prevalence based on Kidney Disease:.
Screening, Monitoring, and Treatment of Stage 1 to 3 Chronic Kidney Disease: A Clinical Practice Guideline From the American College of Physicians Free.
Kidney Disease And Cranberry Juice Oct 15, 2013. Grapefruits are great fruits: Citrus juice could keep your kidneys healthy, growths related to kidney cysts, which can lead to kidney failure. Kidney disease is very expensive. Research shows that cauliflower, cranberry juice, apples, cabbages, blueberries and red peppers provide kidney-health benefits. Heart Kidney Failure Elderly Heart failure (HF) is highly prevalent
Making healthy food choices is important to us all, but it is even more important if you have kidney disease (CKD). Good nutrition can help to: Provide energy to.
Stage 4 of chronic kidney disease is a severe stage, but it can still be controlled and slowed down if the patient follows the treatment plan thoroughly. Even at this stage of the disease, there are several treatment options. 1. Kidney Transplantation.
If these patients have evidence of kidney disease* (see below) these patients have CKD stage G1. Patients with an eGFR of 60-90 ml/min/1.73m2 have mildly.
Oct 09, 2018 · The five stages of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) are based on how well kidneys are working. Early stages can have few symptoms, which is why it's important that you ask your doctor to perform a test called the Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR).
May 1, 2019. In stage 1 and stage 2 CKD, reduced GFR alone does not clinch the diagnosis, because the GFR may in fact be normal or borderline normal.
Nov 29, 2016 · Chronic kidney disease stages are as follows: Stage 1: normal or high GFR (GFR > 90 mL/min) Stage 2: mild CKD (GFR = 60-89 mL/min) Stage 3A: moderate CKD (GFR = 45-59 mL/min) Stage 3B: moderate CKD (GFR = 30-44 mL/min) Stage 4: severe CKD (GFR = 15-29 mL/min) Stage 5: end-stage CKD (GFR.
People with chronic kidney disease often experience high levels of bad cholesterol, which can increase the risk of heart disease. Medications to treat anemia. In certain situations, your doctor may recommend supplements of the hormone erythropoietin (uh-rith-roe-POI-uh-tin), sometimes with added iron.
Related: Failure Kidney Msnbc.msn.com Site
Jul 28, 2010. Of the population,1.8% (3.6 million) individuals were classified in stage 1 CKD, 3.2% (6.5 million) in stage 2 CKD, 7.7% (15.5 million) in stage 3.
Most people in the early stages of kidney disease do not need to limit the amount of fluids they drink. If you do not know your stage of kidney disease, ask your healthcare provider. If your kidney disease gets worse, your dietitian or healthcare provider can let you know.
Chronic kidney disease back pain is usually felt as a dull ache anywhere in the mid-to-lower portion of the back, on one side or the other – this is sometimes referred to as flank pain or loin pain.
Mar 8, 2018. When chronic kidney disease reaches an advanced stage, dangerous. Type 1 or type 2 diabetes; High blood pressure; Glomerulonephritis.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) occurs when kidneys are no longer able to clean. Stage 1 with normal or high GFR (GFR > 90 mL/min); Stage 2 Mild CKD (GFR.
Management of Chronic Kidney Disease Stages 1–3. Background Information. An estimated 11 percent of adults aged 20 or older have early (stages 1–3) CKD,
Jun 16, 2019 · There are five CKD stages: In stage 1, kidney function remains normal (GFR > 90mL/min/1.73 m 2). Urine findings may be abnormal and there may be structural or genetic abnormalities. In stage 2 kidney disease, renal function is minimally reduced, with GFR ranging from 60-89. Urinalysis is abnormal, and structural or genetic abnormalities are often associated.
A person with stage 1 chronic kidney disease (CKD) has kidney damage with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) at a normal or high level greater than 90 ml/min.
Worldwide, 160 million people with type 2 diabetes (T2D) are at risk for developing chronic kidney disease (CKD)[1] Study underscores the need for. 8 so it's important to look for it in its early.
CKD Stage, GFR level (mL/min/1.73 m2). Stage 1 Slightly diminished function; kidney damage with normal or relatively.
The definition of CKD includes all individuals with markers of kidney damage (see below*) or those with an eGFR of less than 60 ml/min/1.73m2 on at least 2 occasions 90 days apart (with or without markers of kidney damage). *Markers of kidney disease may include: albuminuria (ACR > 3 mg/mmol), haematuria (or presumed or confirmed renal origin), electrolyte abnormalities due to tubular disorders, renal.
Learn about the stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD), from very mild damage in Stage 1 to complete kidney failure in Stage 5.
Oct 11, 2012. CKD stages 1–3 are defined as: 1 (kidney damage with a glomerular filtration rate [GFR] >90 mL/min/1.73 m2), 2 (kidney damage with a GFR of.
Related: Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease Ppt
Your child's stage of CKD is primarily determined by her glomerular filtration rate. Stage 1: Kidney damage with normal or increased GFR (≥90); Stage 2:.
Heart Kidney Failure Elderly Heart failure (HF) is highly prevalent in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and is strongly associated with mortality in these patients. However, the treatment of HF in this population is largely unclear. Study Design. I am a stage 4 heart failure patient with stage 5 kidney failure. I started
Chronic Kidney Disease. You may not have any symptoms in the early stages, but that's when it's simpler to treat. Diabetes (types 1 and 2) and high blood pressure are the most common culprits. High blood sugar levels over time can harm your kidneys. And high blood pressure creates wear and tear on your blood vessels, including those that go to your kidneys.
There are five stages of chronic kidney disease. At each stage the body is less able to get rid of extra water and waste. In the early stages (1 and 2), your kidneys.
with chronic kidney disease (CKD) stages 1–3. CKD stages 1–3 are defined as: 1 (kidney damage with a glomerular filtration rate [GFR] >90 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), 2 (kidney damage with a GFR of 60–89 mL/min/1.73 m ), or 3 (a GFR of 30–59
There are five stages of CKD—based on two GFR tests at least 90 days apart. Stages 1 and 2 occur only in people whose kidneys.
Chronic kidney disease 1-2 stage belongs to the beginning of renal disease. Patients may don't have some discomforts in this stage. But if the condition can not be controlled timely, chronic kidney disease will worsen due to the delay of time.
Stage 5 Uremia stage. It takes about 15 years from chronic kidney failure to uremia. In such a stage, more than 90% of kidney tissues have been dead. And your kidneys have shrunken to less than 6cm. Besides, you may not produce urine. You will have a lot of obvious symptoms, such as dizziness, nausea, vomiting, heart failure, weakness, etc.
Most patients in the early stages of kidney disease need to limit the amount of sodium in their diet. Some patients may be told to limit protein in their diet as well. The DASH diet is often recommended for patients with kidney disease. Be sure to talk with your healthcare provider.
Related: Phosphorus And Kidney Function
Each stage of chronic kidney disease is related to the level of kidney function and kidney damage. Stage 1 – a normal eGFR greater than or equal to 90 millilitres.
Chronic Kidney Disease Quick Overview. With loss of kidney function, there is an accumulation of water, waste, and toxic substances in the body that are normally excreted by the kidney. Loss of kidney function also causes other problems such as anemia, high blood pressure, acidosis (excessive acidity of.
announced a comprehensive plan to develop first-ever national registry for patients at all stages of CKD called the NKF Patient Network. The NKF Patient Network will create an interactive community of.
End Stages Of Kidney Disease: DiaMedica Therapeutics Inc (NASDAQ: DMAC) announced interim results from the Phase 1b study of its DM199, which is being.
Changes in the GFR rate can assess how advanced the kidney disease is. In the UK, and many other countries, kidney disease stage…
Lexapro And Kidney Disease: Nutrition, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland;. Amitriptyline, but not escitalopram, appears to benefit some.
February 22, 2018 Biaxin (clarithromycin) FDA review finds additional data supports the po…
Stage Iv Kidney Disease Prognosis: Chronic Kidney Disease Parathyroid Hormone Low Testosterone Kidney Function Aug 29, 2018. For older men with low testosterone, one year of testosterone. disease, or COPD, and advanced kidney disease are conditions in which. Nov 30, 2016. Results: Mor…
Disease Infantile Kidney Polycystic: May 1, 2017. Diffuse Lung Cysts in a Man with Polycystic Kidney Disease. with severe infantile polycystic kidney disease—a contiguous gene syndrome.
Infantile polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD, Autosomal Recessive Kidney Disease) is rare, causes liver…
Chronic Kidney Disease And Disability: Allows states to provide Medicaid coverage to disabled workers, as well as Vocational. Going on disability for end stage renal disease (ESRD) and receiving.
For many years it was thought that hypertension in cats was the result of another condition, …
Malignant Hypertension With Stage Iii Kidney Disease: Jun 25, 2018. Malignant hypertension (MHT) is a life-threatening condition classically defined by hypertensive retinopathy grade III/IV and/or other. hypertension can lead to irreversible kidney failure and end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
Technology - Angelopulos Dental
A Panoramic x-ray machine rotates around your entire head to take a 360-degree view of your teeth, sinuses, and the bone structure of your head and jaws. This provides a more complete image than standard x-rays. Panoramic x-ray imagery is a valuable resource for Dr. Angelopulos to use in diagnosis and treatment planning.
What is the secret to making a great impression? At Angelopulos Dental, we use our intra-oral digital scanner to ensure that the impressions we take are accurate, efficient, and comfortable every time.
Coffee And Sunlight Affect Your Risk Of Hypertension | Windowscewebring
Home » Health » Coffee And Sunlight Affect Your Risk Of Hypertension
Coffee And Sunlight Affect Your Risk Of Hypertension
Posted by Doris W. Alaniz on May 12, 2019 in Health | 0 comments
Drinking several cups of coffee a day is good and does not trigger changes in blood pressure for most people nitric oxide. Personally, the author also argues that coffee drinking habits actually provide a number of benefits that are good for the body. However, what needs to be considered is the intensity in a day, not too much. It is feared, the habit of drinking high caffeinated drinks such as coffee is excessive, it will even cause negative effects on the body. Read this important info: Coffee and Caffeine – How much is safe for the body? Apart from that, you might also want to consume the nitric oxide supplement if you want to avoid hypertension.
So as long as you consume a reasonable amount of coffee a day, you don't need to worry. In fact, it is more worth watching out for, namely energy drinks, which are now widely marketed, because they have been shown to increase blood pressure and cause irregular heart rhythms.
Aside from that, did you know, lack of vitamin D levels in the body due to low consumption of foods rich in vitamin D or less exposed to sun exposure has been linked to high blood pressure. Yes, even though there are some experts who are still not sure whether the two are really related.
However, there are other reasons that make you have to spend more time outside the home and not just keep quiet. In a 2014 study found that, when the skin is exposed to sunlight, chemical reactions in the body cause blood vessels to dilate and blood pressure to decrease.
Besides that, in a study in 2010, it was proven that people who often spend time in nature such as hiking or mountain climbing or walking in the forest experience greater blood pressure, pulse and stress hormones than those who are too often silent in the house.
So try to be more active outside the home, for example by setting aside special time on weekends to go to the beach, enjoy outbound tours, go hiking, and various other fun things.
The MGH Heart Failure Device Monitoring Clinic | EP Lab Digest
Kimberly A. Parks, DO, FACC and Mary Orencole, RN, MS, ANP
Advanced Heart Failure and Cardiac Transplantation Section
Despite numerous advances in heart failure management, re-hospitalization rates in patients with heart failure continue to rise, and heart failure remains the leading cause of hospitalization in the elderly. Billions of healthcare dollars are spent managing heart failure patients in the United States annually, with the majority of these costs being related to hospitalization. Thus, there is an urgent need for novel strategies to optimize outpatient management of patients with heart failure and prevent recurrent hospitalizations.
What can we do to keep patients out of the hospital? Until recently, optimal medical therapy was the only tool available for both outpatient management of heart failure patients and prevention of re-hospitalization. However, large strides in device therapy over the past two decades have given clinicians many more management options. These devices have included cardiac resynchronization devices, intracardiac defibrillators, implantable hemodynamic monitors, and combinations of these. Indeed, device therapy has been shown to be effective in reducing re-hospitalization and improving outcomes in a wide range of heart failure patients.
However, there is a large gap between device implantation and follow up (generally under the purview of electrophysiologists), and continued medical therapy and optimization of fluid status optimization (generally managed by heart failure physicians). Beyond electrophysiologic information, newer devices can provide day-to-day hemodynamic parameters that may aid physicians to detect early physiologic disturbances, optimize medical therapy and prevent hospitalization. Yet, this information has been largely under-utilized by heart failure physicians. In fact, given the rapidity of development of new devices, it has been very challenging for non-electrophysiologists to keep abreast with the latest devices.
At Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), we propose to bridge this gap through a novel, heart failure physician-based "advanced physiologic monitoring clinic" that has been created for heart failure patients with implantable pacemaker devices. This clinic provides integrated care that combines device data with clinical data, subjective reports from the patient, and a functional assessment, to tailor heart failure therapy. Our aims are to optimize medical care and patient quality of life, reduce hospitalizations and readmissions for acute decompensated heart failure (thus reducing total cost of care), and facilitate implementation of advanced therapies when appropriate, such as cardiac resynchronization therapy, cardiac transplant evaluation, or referral for ventricular assist devices.
Our current strategies in managing the patient with chronic heart failure in the outpatient setting have focused on managing volume status based on daily weights and monitoring of symptoms. While these variables are essential in the management of the heart failure patient, there is evidence to suggest that these variables may not be enough to keep these patients out of the hospital. Our specialized clinic is designed to provide advanced monitoring for the heart failure patient who has an implanted device (ICD, CRT device or other implanted monitor) capable of providing diagnostic information, which can be analyzed by their heart failure clinician. ICDs and CRT devices record and provide detailed information pertaining to patient activity, heart rate, autonomic activity, and transthoracic impedance. Devices in clinical trials are capable of providing real-time hemodynamic data. This diagnostic information is downloaded from the device and medical therapy is tailored based on device data, patient symptoms and exam findings.
Services Provided at the MGH Heart Failure Device Monitoring Clinic
Patients who are at high risk for hospitalization are referred to the clinic by their primary cardiologist. At each visit, quality of life is assessed using the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire. Functional status is objectively evaluated using the six-minute walk test. The patient's device is then interrogated by an EP-trained nurse practitioner, and the patient is examined and evaluated by a heart failure specialist. Using all of the data collectively, therapy is then tailored. When clinically indicated, medications are titrated and device adjustments are made such as augmentation of rate responsiveness. Patients with CRT devices may undergo device optimization using phonocardiography or are referred for echocardiographic optimization if deemed necessary. Device data in combination with clinical data, subjective reports from the patient, and a functional assessment is used to tailor therapy.
Interrogation of devices by heart failure physicians is not intended to replace routine care by the patient's electrophysiologist, but rather, to work synergistically with the electrophysiology team that is handling the arrhythmia and lead-related issues. The goal and belief of the MGH Heart Failure Device Monitoring Clinic is that the examination of this physiological data cannot be isolated from diagnostic heart failure parameters. One method that facilitates this practice is the use of the shared electronic medical record in which the heart failure patient's device-related information is combined in the same area as the electrophysiological reports. Staff knowledgeable in both the electrophysiological and diagnostic device parameters of monitoring is integral to the success of our patients.
Device Diagnostics Specific in Heart Failure Management
Heart rate variability (HRV) can be a surrogate marker for autonomic control in the heart failure patient, as it predominantly reflects parasympathetic input to the myocardium. HRV is a continuous measurement of changes in intrinsic heart rate over time, and as severity of heart failure progresses, HRV decreases. Most implantable devices will record HRV, and it is usually displayed as a 24-hour distribution of variability versus heart rate. Recent studies have demonstrated that patients with low heart rate variability correlate with high mortality and risk of hospitalization.1,2 Additionally, HRV may be useful in detecting impending decompensation. High LA pressures leading to mechanical stretch of the SA node will decrease HRV3 and since filling pressures have been shown to increase five to seven days prior to the development of symptoms severe enough to warrant hospitalization.3
Poor control of underlying cardiac arrhythmias can lead to worsening of heart failure symptoms; assessing and managing arrhythmia burden is crucial to optimal management of heart failure patients. Onset of atrial fibrillation and loss of the atrial systolic contribution to ventricular diastole can quickly lead to decompensation in patients with underlying cardiomyopathy. Patients with prophylactic, single chamber ICDs who experience frequent ventricular pacing are at increased risk of death or hospitalization for heart failure.4 In the case of cardiac resynchronization devices, percent biventricular pacing can be observed. PVC burden is another important feature that can be analyzed, as frequent PVCs may lead to myocardial dyssynchrony and worsening HF symptoms.
Most permanent pacemakers and defibrillators are equipped with an accelerometer, which detects body movement and can thus monitor general activity throughout the day. Body movement can be quantified by accelerometer signals, which are continuously collected and plotted. An "activity log index" (ALI) is then generated, which is the percentage of time the acceleration exceeds a fixed threshold, a value which corresponds to walking on a treadmill at 2.0 mph. The ALI is highly sensitive in detecting levels of physical activity, and can be used to monitor daily activity level in heart failure patients. The ALI provides objective information on a continuous basis, monitoring the patient's activities in daily living, and is positively correlated with the six-minute walk test.5 Lower ALI scores correlate with a higher mortality risk.6
Patients will often report a subtle decrease in activity level and exercise capacity several weeks prior to heart failure decompensation or hospitalization. By routinely evaluating the ALI during device interrogation, providers may be able to detect early warning signs that can be used to predict or detect impending heart failure decompensation.
Thoracic Impedance and Fluid Index
High pulmonary and systemic venous congestion as a result of high filling pressures lead to symptoms that prompt the need for hospitalization.7 The newest device-based diagnostic modality available today has the ability to detect changes in intrathoracic fluid status, providing valuable insight into patient management. In 2004, the FDA approved a novel implantable device which can detect and record thoracic fluid status via measurement of intrathoracic impedance. The OptiVol® fluid status monitoring system (Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, MN) is available for use with some biventricular pacing devices and implantable defibrillators. Intrathoracic impedance decreases during periods of volume overload, and lower intrathoracic impedance has been shown to correlate with higher pulmonary capillary wedge pressures; thus, it is an added tool in determining volume status and imminent decompensation. Newer devices are currently in clinical trials that may further refine predictive accuracy of impedance monitoring.
In addition to face-to-face visits and interrogation of devices, the clinic also integrates regular remote monitoring of devices capable of transmitting physiologic data (Figure 5). We now know that recent research studies demonstrate that the use of remote monitoring dramatically decreases the response time to arrhythmia events leading to necessary medication changes and clinical evaluations. Ultimately these actions keep these patients out of the hospital. These studies had the electrophysiological device parameters as their focus. Our focus will remain primarily on the heart failure physiologic parameters.
To improve the outcomes related to close remote monitoring of physiological parameters, it is important to have involved and caring clinicians who can make any necessary pharmacological changes related to the patient's treatment. If these are monitored on a monthly basis in patients with unstable heart failure, we can act more quickly and potentially eliminate unnecessary costly hospitalizations and emergency room visits.
A variety of implantable cardiac monitors are currently in clinical trials. As this new technology emerges, systems will need to be in place to readily manage data obtained from these devices. We live in a world where smartphones now have the ability to download entertainment in a matter of seconds. Healthcare-related information is certainly as important, and can provide a means of confirmation by allowing patients the ability to actively transmit their data to their clinicians when they detect their own clinical changes. In addition, patients will be able to view this information and can become active participants in evaluating many of these parameters.
The heart failure and electrophysiology sections at MGH work collaboratively to provide our patients with the latest available technology and care through our many research endeavors. The device monitoring program serves as a forum where implantable devices used to manage heart failure can be developed and tested. The MGH Heart Failure Device Monitoring Clinic plays a significant role in several national and international multi-center heart failure device-related studies. We were one of a few centers involved in the HOMEOSTASIS trial (St. Jude Medical), and we are actively enrolling patients in the LAPTOP-HF trial (St. Jude Medical). These trials use an implanted left atrial pressure sensor to help tailor therapy for heart failure patients with NYHA class III symptoms. We are also actively enrolling patients in the INOVATE-HF trial (BioControl Medical), which uses an implanted vagus nerve stimulator to improve heart failure symptoms. We were involved in the recent Clepsydra trial (Sorin Group), which uses novel sensors to detect changes in respiration, which are correlated with heart failure events. We are prospectively collecting data on all patients followed in the clinic. Our database will enable us to answer many questions pertinent to follow-up strategies, use of device diagnostics and remote monitoring. Endpoints such as cardiovascular events, hospitalization for heart failure, functional capacity, quality of life, and cost effectiveness are currently being evaluated.
The future of heart failure management will encompass a team of providers and active patient involvement. Through implantable technology, patients will become empowered to co-manage their heart failure. The next generation of impedance monitoring will incorporate multiple vector technology, thus increasing the precision of fluid index. Sensors will be capable of complete hemodynamic monitoring, including left atrial pressure, pulmonary artery pressures, and even PA saturation. Systems will need to be in place to appropriately manage the vast amounts of data capable of being transmitted. Implantable monitors have created a new paradigm in disease management. As treating physicians, we should embrace this technology, as it can extend our face-to-face management and better optimize care for our patients.
La Rovere MT, Pinna GD, Maestri R, et al. Short-term heart rate variability strongly predicts sudden cardiac death in chronic heart failure patients. Circulation 2003;107:565–570.
Adamson PB. Continuous heart rate variability from an implanted device: A practical guide for clinical use. Congest Heart Fail 2005;11:327–330.
Horner SM, Murphy CF, Coen B, et al. Contribution to heart rate variability by mechanoelectric feedback. Stretch of the sinoatrial node reduces heart rate variability. Circulation 1996;94:1762–1767.
Wilkoff BL, Cook JR, Epstein AE, et al. Dual-chamber pacing or ventricular backup pacing in patients with an implantable defibrillator: The Dual Chamber and VVI Implantable Defibrillator (DAVID) trial. JAMA 2002;288:3115–3123.
Kadhresan VA, Pastore J, Auricchio A, et al. A Novel Method—The Activity Log Index—for Monitoring Physical Activity of Patients With Heart Failure. Am J Cardiol 2002;89:1435–1437.
Singh JP, Rosenthal LS, Hranitzky PM, et al. Device diagnostics and long-term clinical outcome in patients receiving cardiac resynchronization therapy. Europace 2009; Advance access publish, 13 Sept.
Adams KF Jr, Fonarow GC, Emerman CL, et al. Characteristics and outcomes of patients hospitalized for heart failure in the United States: Rationale, design, and preliminary observations from the first 100,000 cases in the Acute Decompensated Heart Failure National Registry (ADHERE). Am Heart J 2005;149:209–216.
Stella Borealis Catholic Roundtable: On The Other Hand: Embryonic stem cell pioneer says cures likely decades away
On The Other Hand: Embryonic stem cell pioneer says cures likely decades away
The scientist whose group took part in groundbreaking embryonic stem cell research in 1998 says cures using embryonic stem cells are likely decades away.
University of Wisconsin scientist James Thomson made the comments during a speech Feb. 8 in Lake Delton, Wis., to the Wisconsin Newspaper Association's annual convention, the Associated Press reported. In 1998, Thomson's team became the first group to grow human embryonic stem cells in culture, sparking a controversy over the use of embryos in stem cell research that continues to this day.
Although some supporters of embryonic stem cell research have implied cures are just around the corner, Thomson cautioned that cures probably are decades away, AP said. While Thomson believes researchers will learn how to grow embryonic stem cells into various forms of body tissue and organs within a decade, he also thinks safety concerns will delay cures for humans, AP reported.
"I don't want to sound too pessimistic because this is all doable, but it's going to be very hard," Thomson told convention attendees, according to the Associated Press. "Ultimately, those transplantation therapies should work but it's likely to take a long time."
Among the obstacles, Thomson said, scientists still must learn how to grow the stem cells into the body's different types of tissues and organs, AP said. Another obstacle, he said, is preventing cancer from growing during transplantation. [....snip] LifeDigest, Baptist Press News
