Providers - Gynecologic Cancer - Tufts Health Plan - Brooklyn, NY | DocSpot
We found 5 providers with an interest in gynecologic cancer and who accept Tufts Health Plan near Brooklyn, NY.
Medicare Patient AgeMedicare Patient ConditionsMedicare Patient EthnicityMedicare Patient GenderAdditional InformationDistinctionsForeign LanguagePractice AffiliationCertificationsMedical SchoolResidencySpecialtyYears Since Graduation Showing 1-5 of 5 List Mode
Dr. Hani Lamei Ashamalla, MDProfile Specializes in Radiation Oncology (1 rating)506 Sixth StreetBrooklyn, NY Dr. Hani Ashamalla is a radiation oncology specialist in Brooklyn, NY. His areas of expertise include the following: pancreas problems, brachytherapy (seed implants), and hodgkin's lymphoma. He is affiliated with New York Methodist (NYM) Hospital. Amerigroup, Coresource, and Anthem are among the insurance carriers that Dr. Ashamalla takes. He attended medical school at Ain Shams University Faculty of Medicine. Dr. Ashamalla's training includes a residency program at New York Methodist Hospital. He has received professional recognition including the following: New York Super Doctors. Dr. Ashamalla (or staff) speaks Spanish and Russian.Read more Relevant Interests: , cervical cancer, uterine cancer
Dr. Monique Antoinette Hartley-Brown, MDProfile Specializes in Adult Hematology, Adult Oncology500 4th Avenue; Suite 1Brooklyn, NY Dr. Monique Hartley-Brown is a specialist in adult hematology and adult oncology. Her areas of expertise include the following: bladder cancer, platelet disorders, and leukemia. Dr. Hartley-Brown is affiliated with New York Methodist (NYM) Hospital and Mount Sinai Hospital. She is a graduate of New York University (NYU) School of Medicine. For her professional training, Dr. Hartley-Brown completed residency programs at New York-Presbyterian Hospital and a hospital affiliated with Weill Cornell Medical College. Amerigroup, Coresource, and Anthem are among the insurance carriers that Dr. Hartley-Brown takes.Read more Relevant Interests: , ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, vulvar cancer, uterine cancer
Dr. Baonhu Thi Ngo, MDProfile Specializes in Anatomic Pathology, Clinical Pathology506 Sixth Street, Pathology Department; Carrington PavilionBrooklyn, NY Dr. Nhu Ngo's medical specialty is anatomic pathology and clinical pathology. Before performing her residency at Hartford Hospital and a hospital affiliated with Baylor College of Medicine, Dr. Ngo attended the University of Connecticut School of Medicine. Her clinical interests include lung cancer, ovarian cancer, and cancer genetics. Amerigroup, Coresource, and Anthem are among the insurance carriers that Dr. Ngo takes. She is affiliated with New York Methodist (NYM) Hospital and Yale New Haven Health System.Read more Relevant Interests: , ovarian cancer, vulvar cancer, uterine cancer
Dr. Alan Bennett Astrow, MDProfile Specializes in Adult Hematology, Adult Oncology (5 ratings)263 Seventh Avenue; Suite #5a, Nypbmh Medical PavilionBrooklyn, NY Dr. Alan Astrow practices adult hematology and adult oncology in Brooklyn, NY. The average patient rating for Dr. Astrow is 2.5 stars out of 5. He has a special interest in ovarian cancer, breast cancer, and cervical cancer. Dr. Astrow accepts Amerigroup, Coresource, Anthem, and more. He obtained his medical school training at Yale School of Medicine and performed his residency at Boston Medical Center. Dr. Astrow has received the following distinction: New York Super Doctors. He is professionally affiliated with New York Methodist (NYM) Hospital.Read more Relevant Interests: , ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, uterine cancer
Dr. Natan Haratz-Rubinstein, MDProfile Specializes in Maternal and Fetal Medicine (1 rating)506 Sixth Street; Suite 4th FloorBrooklyn, NY Dr. Natan Haratz-Rubinstein, who practices in Brooklyn, NY, is a medical specialist in maternal and fetal medicine (perinatology). Dr. Haratz-Rubinstein's clinical interests include amniocentesis, ovarian cancer, and fibroids. He honors Amerigroup, Coresource, Anthem, and more. For his residency, Dr. Haratz-Rubinstein trained at New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University Medical Center. In addition to English, Dr. Haratz-Rubinstein (or staff) speaks Hebrew and Spanish. He is affiliated with New York Methodist (NYM) Hospital.Read more Relevant Interests: , ovarian cancer
Use food to clean your blood | The Voice Online
Use food to clean your blood
One New Year resolution to end them all
01/01/2012 10:28 AM
YOU ARE what you eat! You may have heard that old adage a few times, but it is as true today as it has always been.
The food you consume is digested and becomes your blood. Your blood then nourishes , repairs and rebuilds your entire body.
Your body makes new red blood cells every 120 days and those cells go on to create new skin cells, bone cells, hair cells etc.
One of the most important foods to eat is avocados. Avocados are rich in monounsaturated fatty acids. These are the good fats that the body needs. They also contain glutathione which is an anti-cancer substance. Eating avocados also protects the heart to help prevent heart disease.
Contrary to popular belief avocados do not make you fat. Yes they do contain fats, but fats which actually mop up the bad fats in the body and can even help in the reduction of high blood pressure as well as weight loss! I can see this when I look at someone's live blood under the microscope. Someone who has been consuming avocados on a daily basis will have a very clear plasma fluid surrounding the red blood cells.
The absolute key to good health is the quality of the red blood cells you create. The quality of your red blood cells will determine your weight, the quality of your skin, hair and even your energy levels!
One of my clients Fiona Harvey who included avocados in her health regime had this to say:
"The last few years had been very stressful. The family had a lot of grief to deal with and I became my father's carer during his illness, travelling from London to Birmingham on a weekly basis. With this, and holding down a full-time job, I found I was not eating well and did not get sufficient rest or exercise.
"Within the last year I suffered an outbreak of eczema which I had never experienced before and my scalp was extremely dry. I became prone to yeast infections and my blood pressure rocketed. I was always tired, restless, had regular migraines, suffered with constipation, joint pains and was moody.
"My weight was up and down and my last attempt to lose weight with Weight Watchers was disappointing. I went up to 12 stone 9, the heaviest I had ever been.
BEFORE AND AFTER: Fiona, left, felt tired and her blood cells (below left image) were in a poor state. Fiona, right, lost weight, felt better and her blood cells (below right image) were in a much improved state
"Not being able to reduce my blood pressure after nine months was a concern. My GP advised I would need to take tablets; I was determined this was not a route I wanted to go down and needed to get my health in hand. I know all to well the dangers of high blood pressure and diabetes as these are two conditions that are in my family medical history.
"I had read about Errol Denton in The Voice and looked up Live Blood Analysis on the internet. Having done a few months research I decided I would book myself in for a test.
"I had my first test on March 26, 2009 and was totally shocked of what was found in my blood. My red blood cells were sticking together forming a long worm shape rather than healthy round shapes. They were full of sugar and yeast which explained the exhaustion, skin problems and eczema. I was able to see mould forming and parasites moving freely around my blood. My white blood cells were no better; they were small and not being produced sufficiently to fight any infections. Errol explained how what was in my blood contributed to the illnesses I was experiencing and how I could make changes to improve my wellbeing.
"Within the first week of starting the programme I lost 4lbs and steadily continued to lose weight over the next three months. My skin improved and my hair and scalp looked healthier. Plus my energy levels increased. I noticed when I walked short distances I was no longer short of breath.
"After three months of alkalizing, eating non-acidic foods and drinking plenty of green drinks, I lost 1 stone 2lbs by time I had my retest on June 25.
Errol was pleased with my retest which showed a 30 percent improvement of my blood. After having regular monthly checks on my blood pressure, it had dropped to normal and tablets were not mentioned again!
"Family and friends always comment on how well I look and that I have a 'glow' about me. With a further 7lbs weight loss I have also been able to maintain my weight at just less than 11 stones.
"I read food labels more closely now and have learned to say "no thank you" to tempting foods.
"The key to successful wellbeing is to make the change and take one step at a time. I still have a way to go to see greater improvements and will continue to alkalize to further improve my wellbeing."
Almost everyone wants to lose weight after the festive season and they either rush off to join a gym or some special diet club usually getting very disappointing results. The key to achieving great permanent results is to clean your blood through a lifestyle change and not faddy diets. Rethinking how and what you eat is the key to true health at a cellular level.
* Errol Denton is a nutritional microscopist live blood analyst focussed primarily on the creation of healthy red blood cells as this is the key to perfect health. He can be contacted on 020 8498 9898 or see www.livebloodtest.com for more info.
by Medindia Content Team on November 15, 2005 at 10:43 AM Cancer News
New research in the UK has revealed that smokers are unconcerned with the effect of their habit on the oral cavity. In particular they seemed to be aware of the damage that smoking caused to the tongue or jaw or the lip and even the teeth, but were strangely reluctant to change their habits. This is of particular concern to the oral and maxillofacial surgeons, who are launching a massive awareness campaign as a part of the Mouth Cancer Awareness Week. Surgeons will visit schools and educate adolescents about the effects of smoking on the mouth and in particular its relation to oral cancer. "Smoking among adolescents is rising. Kids want graphic images and powerful images, they like to know that if they do this we will get that," said Iain Hutchison, a maxillo facial surgeon based at Barts and the Royal London, Hospital and a member of Saving Faces, the Facial Surgery Research Foundation. "We know it is much more difficult to quit smoking than to never start, so this is the place to start making sure these children don't ever smoke." He says that children are very impressed with the graphic images and go home and tell their parents about it. "By educating the kids we are also educating their parents about smoking and mouth cancer," Hutchinson points out. It is estimated that about 4,300 new cases of oral cancer occur in the UK every year and a majority of them are linked to smoking. Research conducted by dental plan provider Denplan shows that smoking and drinking increases the risk of oral cancer by 30 times "Symptoms of mouth cancer vary widely in look and feel, making early self-detection difficult. That's why regular visits to the dentist remain crucial for detecting the disease because dentists are trained to spot the signs," said Dental advisor Dr Henry Clover.
<< Low turnover by Diabetics for free annual checkup
Doctors unhappy with insurer's ratings proposal >>
Tongue Abnormalities Health Hazards of Smoking Smoking And Cancer Smoking And Tobacco Cancer and Homeopathy Diet Lifestyle and Heart Disease Bubbles and Brews - Alcohol Facts Cancer Facts Cancer Smoking
Home Abused substances Biocodone Abuse
Biocodone, a brand name for the opiate narcotic hydrocodone, is prescribed by doctors to treat people suffering from around-the-clock severe-pain.
Hydrocodone functions by changing the way your central nervous system reacts to pain signals, and when taken in higher than recommended doses, produces a sense of euphoria and sedation that can lead to near-immediate psychological dependence for some. For this reason, you must always take Biocodone exactly as directed by your doctor.
If you or someone you love is addicted to Biocodone, call 800 774 5796 now, and let us connect you with the right substance abuse treatment for your needs.
Understanding Biocodone Abuse
Biocodone is a brand name for hydrocodone, a semi-synthetic opiate derived from the opium poppy. It is in the same family of drugs as oxycodone, codeine, morphine and heroin, and just like any other opiate, Biocodone works by binding to opiate receptors and blocking pain signals.
This medication can also produce a sense of cheerfulness, well-being and peace due to a release of the neurotransmitter dopamine—an effect which can protect the body from shock due to surgery or injury. When you take a higher than recommended dose of Biocodone, you experience euphoria and extreme relaxation resulting from an abnormal rush of the same neurotransmitter. Some people become hooked on this experience from their first use.
Signs and Symptoms of Biocodone Abuse
Signs and symptoms of an opiate addiction can be physical, behavioral, and psychological. A primary sign of addiction is regularly taking more medication than is clinically recommended.
Other signs and symptoms of Biocodone abuse may include:
Drowsiness is a common sign of Bicodone abuse.
continually seeking new prescriptions
pretending to lose prescriptions
If you or someone you love is addicted to Biocodone, please call 800 774 5796 now. We can help.
Dangers of Biocodone Abuse
If you continue to abuse Biocodone, you will develop a tolerance that will force you to raise your dosage to potentially unsafe amounts. Among other problems, high doses of hydrocodone can cause respiratory depression.
According to the National Institute for Drug Abuse: "depressed respiration can affect the amount of oxygen that reaches the brain, a condition called hypoxia. Hypoxia can have short- and long-term psychological and neurological effects, including coma and permanent brain damage."
You may not be able to recognize when this damage is happening to you, which is why it is crucial to seek treatment for a drug problem as soon as possible.
Even when taken according to your doctor's advice, Biocodone may cause adverse effects. MedlinePlus explains that these include:
Some side effects can be serious. If you experience any of these, seek emergency medical treatment:
If you or someone you love is suffering due to an addiction to Biocodone, call 800 774 5796 now, and let our treatment advisors help.
Who Abuses Biocodone?
There is no one type of person who abuses opiate drugs like Biocodone. You may begin inadvertently, perhaps by mistakenly taking extra medication to make up for a missed dose. Then, you may have enjoyed the resulting rush of euphoria, pain relief, and blissful calm so much that you felt compelled to repeat the experience.
Your Biocodone abuse may be a sign that you suffer from an undiagnosed mental illness such as depression or an anxiety disorder. You could be abusing opiates to self-medicate. This may be effective in the short-term, but over time, the side effects and withdrawal symptoms caused by the drug will only exacerbate any emotional problems, while adding to your burden with new somatic complaints.
dysthymia (an inability to feel pleasure)
Biocodone Addiction
Don't struggle with Bicodone addiction alone. Get treatment help today!
Anyone, from any walk of life, has the potential to become addicted to Biocodone. When used appropriately, the medicine can keep you from suffering unnecessarily during illness or recovery from surgery or injury. Untreated pain can inhibit healing, sometimes leading to emotional problems as well as health complications from stress.
But overuse and abuse of Biocodone will lead to an addiction that will take over your life, limit your options and threaten your well-being.
Am I Addicted to Biocodone?
If you fear that you are addicted to Biocodone, read and honestly answer the questions below:
Do I abuse Biocodone to escape from negative feelings or conflicts that I don't want to face?
Am I obsessed with maintaining a supply of drugs?
Have I done things I'm ashamed of, or that scare me, in order to obtain drugs?
Do I abuse Biocodone every day?
Have friends or family members mentioned that they are worried about my drug use?
When I try to cut down or quit using, do I experience withdrawal symptoms such as those listed above?
Do I feel like I can't have fun, be normal, or complete everyday tasks without Biocodone?
Do I need more and more Biocodone each time I abuse the drug in order to feel its effects?
Have I experienced any major problems as a result of my drug use, such as a breakup, job loss, car accident, family problems, financial problems, or getting arrested?
Despite knowing Biocodone is bad for me, do I feel unable to stop using on my own?
If you answered yes to one or more of these questions, you may be addicted to Biocodone and in need of professional substance abuse treatment. Call 800 774 5796 now, and let our advisors connect you to the best options for your needs.
Biocodone Addiction Treatment
If you feel like your drug use is out of control, then you need help. The sooner you get treatment, the better your chances will be of making a full recovery and maintaining your sobriety for the long-term.
Opiate abuse can have a long-lasting effect on brain function, impairing your judgement, cognition, and ability to cope with stress. Waiting to seek addiction treatment will only augment the damage, and make repairing it more of an undertaking.
The first step towards healing is to rid your body of addictive substances. It is not a good idea to abruptly stop taking Biocodone. You should taper your dosage slowly with the guidance of medical professionals who know how you can detox with a maximum of safety and a minimum of discomfort.
Chemical dependence treatment programs offer many different options that you can combine as needed to create a customized approach to recovery. These options include:
Levels of care that vary depending on need– You may respond best to a fully immersive, inpatient residential program where your life revolves around the recovery experience. Or you may benefit from an outpatient program that allows you to incorporate recovery into your everyday life without having to remove yourself from it.
Different treatment environments– You may be drawn to a more urban program that allows you to use resources available in the city as a part of the therapeutic process. Or you may prefer a program in a rural setting, where natural surroundings and activities can be used for their healing capabilities.
Individual, group or family counseling– No matter what type of program you choose, you will certainly engage in talk therapy to work through issues, improve communication, address past trauma, and lay the groundwork for relapse prevention after discharge.
Support Groups– The philosophies behind AA's 12-step program are not only beneficial in and of themselves, but attending meetings can be a wonderful way to support a sober lifestyle. They are a resource that will be available to you everywhere, every day. They also help remind you that you are not alone in your journey.
Holistic Therapies– Recovery isn't just about healing the mind. You must also heal your body and spirit to truly overcome addiction in a way that lasts. Therapies such as mindfulness training, yoga, and music therapy can address your healing from a whole-person perspective.
You don't have to live with the suffering that Biocodone addiction causes you and your loved ones.
Call 800 774 5796 today. Our advisors will direct you to affordable, effective substance abuse treatment that will help you change your life.
Security | Leading Boards
Data privacy guaranteed!
The security of information is our priority #1
Leading Boards servers' are located in Canada and France and they are certified by international security standards. Data hosted is not shared in the cloud or subject to the U.S Freedom Act (previously U.S. Patriot Act), thus providing a permanent control on the access to the information.
Why trust us with your data ?
Experience the best technologies at low cost
Provide users with guidance and unlimited support
Enjoy installations certified by international security standards
Remove the high risk responsibility of data privacy
Maintain skills and time for other internal projects
Download the white paper: Securing the data of your Board
Three different levels of protectionPhysical infrastructure:
ISO 27001 certified hosting
In order to continuously improve data protection and ensure the confidentiality of all information, Leading Boards Board portals are hosted on servers that have obtained certifications in the field of computer security.
The hosting is certified by the international standard ISO/IEC 27001:2013. This standard guarantees the implementation of an Information Security Management System for data safety. ISO 27001 also defines control measures to ensure the relevance of the system to provide our customers with very high level security requirements.
Server-application level:
Our system is certified Qualys SECURE and tested daily to pass all external vulnerability audit recommendations of the organizations below:
Department of Homeland Security's National Infrastructure Protection Center (NIPC)
SANS/FBI Top 20 Internet Security Vulnerabilities list
Visa's CISP and AIS
MasterCard's SDP
American Express' DSS
Discover Card's DISC security standards
As a Qualys SECURE site, our system is also certified to be in compliance with the network perimeter security criteria mandated in such regulations as:
256 bits SSL encryption key
Each user is identified by a unique username and given a temporary password. All users have to change their password on first login, and the default password strength enforces a "strong" password policy.
Each and every request made to our servers is authenticated to verify the user's identity, and whether the user has the appropriate permissions to execute the requested action. Only if these checks successfully pass, does the request get passed to the main application for execution.
All confidential data is encrypted using strong, industry standard encryption protocols.
Discover the Leading Boards' service for the needs of your organization!
In a live demo, we will present the benefits of a board portal, share our expertise and answer all questions.
Get started	Copyright © Leading Boards 2017. All rights reserved We use cookies to improve your experience of our site, but we do not save your personal information. Nous utilisons des "cookies" pour optimiser votre navigation sur le site, mais ne conservons aucune de vos informations personnelles.Ok
Are you looking for a reliable salon for nail care and spa services? Kim's Nails Salon is the ideal place. Come to us in Walnut Creek, CA zip code 94596 to have the joys when caring for your beauty and see yourself get more and more beautiful with a stylish look!
Kim's Nails Salon is a haven of relaxation that promotes comfort, beauty, well-being, and health. Our priorities are client-focused services, high-quality products, and above all else, grade-A sanitation standards.
We understand that Safety and Sanitation are key to your peace of mind. Our implements are medically sterilized and disinfected after each use. We routinely follow the sanitary standard that sets us apart from other places. Buffers and files are used only once then discarded. All pedicure procedures are done with liner protection. And above all, staffs are trained to follow a proper sanitization protocol that puts client's hygiene as the number one priority.
Browse our Website for more information about Kim's Nails Salon. If you have any questions or would like to speak with Kim's Nails Salon representative regarding our salon, please call us at 925-933-8668.
From Left: Sharon Dickinson PA-C, AACC; Teshia Sorensen PharmD, BCPS, AACC and CV Team State Liaison of the Utah Chapter of the American College of Cardiology; Marci Farquhar-Snow, NP, AACC; Nancy Lundy, NP, AACC
Jared Bunch, MD, FACC
Utah, Chapter President
ACC Governor, Utah
Please join us for the ACC Rockies Chapter Meeting from August 5-7, 2022 at the Hyatt Centric in Park City, Utah. For more information and to register, please visit: https://cvent.me/zaKr2z ACC Live Courses
For a listing of all ACC Live Courses please visit: https://www.acc.org/education-and-meetings/meetings
Latest in Cardiology from ACC.org
Adding Salt to Food and Risk of Cardiovascular Disease
What is the association between cardiovascular risk and the frequency of adding salt to foods and the DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet?
Iron Deficiency and Treatment for Cardiovascular Disease: Key Points
The following are key points to remember from this state-of-the-art review about iron deficiency in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Practical Considerations For ICD in Athletes
Athletes who have a substrate for ventricular arrythmia (VA) may experience sudden cardiac death (SCD) as a first-time manifestation of their underlying disease.
REVIVED and STICH: Revascularization Versus Guideline Directed Medical Therapy in Ischemic Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction
Coronary artery disease (CAD) continues to be the leading cause of heart failure (HF) globally. The concept of salvaging hibernating myocardium in order to improve morbidity and mortality in patients with HF has been a topic of discussion for many years.
Health Care Policy and CHD â€“ 2020 Focus on Our 2030 Future: Top 10 Things to Know
Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most common birth defect and the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in children.
Search this site
Search for:
Utah Chapter of the American College of Cardiology
Our purpose is to contribute to the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, to ensure optimal quality of care for individuals with such diseases, and to foster the highest professional ethical standards.
Assistant Director for Research and Public Engagement in St. Louis, MO for Washington University in St. Louis
Search Results: 53594 Jobs
Assistant Director for Research and Public Engagement
Internal Number: JR62523
The Assistant Director works with and reports to the Director of the Center for the Humanities in Arts & Sciences, supporting the planning and management of all aspects of the Center. This involves collaboration with other Center staff and academic personnel of the program, post-doctoral fellows, faculty and graduate fellows, and undergraduate Kling fellows. It also includes the administration of internal and external grant funding and reporting.
Collaborates with Center leadership on long-range planning, mission, and program development, including new projects and initiatives, internally and externally funded.
Collaborates with leadership and staff on budgetary planning, grants and budgets, resource allocation decisions, and reporting.
Serves as a representative of the Center to the university, to St. Louis, and to the broader humanities community (The National Humanities Alliance, the NEH, the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes).
Develops and maintain institutional partnerships and collaborations with others in the humanities community.
Develops programming to enhance the research capacity of humanities faculty
Develops programs for amplifying the work of humanities scholars and students across the campus, the community, and nationally.
Oversees and coordinate the annual competitions for and administration of all Center grants (faculty fellowships, summer research grants, seed grants, etc.),
Oversees and coordinates competitions for external funding agencies (the NEH, ACLS, Mellon, etc.),
Works with others on planning and executing all of the Centerâ™s signature annual events.
Participates in research and outreach that will support the core missions of the Center, and/or specific projects/development efforts.
Identifies/pursues appropriate grants and collaborative research opportunities that will advance the core missions of the Center.
Helps to build and maintain strong, equitable public-facing projects in collaboration with St. Louis community partners
Please upload the following documents to the My Experience section of your application:
1. A current curriculum vita
2. A cover letter discussing your qualifications for the position
3. The names of three individuals who can provide letters of recommendation upon request
Review of completed applications will begin on November 15th and will continue until the position is filled.
Previous experience in the Humanities or similar interdisciplinary program within a higher-education setting.
Experience building collaborative relationships with cultural and community organizations.
Experience working with external grants:Â proposal development, liaising with Office of Research, administration, reporting.
Kadcyla 100mg (Trastuzumab) tablet online, Uses & Side effects|Blueberrypharma
ADO-TRASTUZUMAB 100MG
Kadcyla is ananti-cancer medication which will prevents the growth and spread of cancer cells in the body Emtansine is known as MCC-DM1 complex.
Kadcyla is well defined as recombinant monoclonal antibody product by mammalian cells and DM1 and MCC produced by chemical synthesis.
Kadcyla is normally used after other chemo drugs have been tried and failed to give success.
160mg per vial
Kadcyla is a single component which indicated for the treatment of HER-2positive metastatic breast cancer, the treatment given for who previously received trastuzumab and a taxane in combination or alone treatment. Patients have either two conditions
1.	Previously got treatment for metastatic disease
2.	Relapsed during or within six months of completing adjuvant therapy
Ado-trastuzumab emtansine is a type of HER2-antibody drug conjugate which consolidated the HER2 aimed actions of trastuzumab with the microtubule inhibitor DM1 (a maytansine derivative).
The conjugate, which is joined through a stable thioether linker, allows for selective delivery into HER2 overexpressing cells, resulting in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis
The time to peak plasma concentration is near the end of the infusion
DM1 has serum protein concentration is 93%
Kadcyla undergoes hepatic metabolism through CYP3A4/5
Half-life is approximately 4 days
Ingredients Ado-trastuzumab Emtansine
Pack 160mg per vial
Kadcyla recommended dose for adult dose is 3.6mg/kg administer every 3 weeks (21-day cycle).
Treatment received until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
More than 3.6mg/kg dose should not administer to the patients
Do not substitute other medicine for kadcyla or with trastuzumab
Administer kadcyla injection over 90minutes in first infusion.
Followed by subsequent infusions over 30 minutes.
Kadcyla help to prevent breast cancer in which it may cause some serious and common side effects. Inform your doctor If any of these signs or symptoms occurs or do not cure soon.
•	Mouth ulcer, throat ulcer
•	Dry, red or teary eyes
•	Vision blurred
Some serious side effects :
•	Where the medication was injected in the place Pain, itching, redness, swelling, blisters, or sores.
•	Nosebleeds and other unusual bleeding or bruising
•	Bloody or black, tarry stools
•	In the hands or feet pain, burning or tingling
Severe hepatotoxicity, which involves in liver failure and death has been identified. Transaminases and bilirubin at baseline and prior to each dose should be monitor, If dose increases then require dose reduction or discontinuation.
During treatment, evaluate the function of left ventricular function before or at least every 3 months. If any significant function of left ventricular decreases, then withhold the kadcyla treatment
When kadcyla administer to pregnant women it will cause harm to the patients. Based on its mechanism of action, the antibody and cytotoxic components of kadcyla will cause embryo-fetal toxicity
Permanently discontinue kadcyla treatment in patients having ILD or pneumonitis
Kadcyla has no formal drug- drug interaction but conducting in vitro studies some interaction as follows
Interaction with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the CYP3A4 substrates serum concentration.
While interaction with anthracyclines, the cardiotoxic effects may enhance for anthracyclines.
Interaction with tacrolimus the adverse/toxic effects of immunosuppressants may increase.
Kadcyla concomitant use with trastuzumab then it may enhance the neutropenic effect of immunosuppressants
If any dose missed, then take it when remember before the next dose.
If time reaches for next dose, then skip missed dose.
Follow the regular schedule. do not have double dose at same time
The drug kadcyla may cause harm to fetal when administer to the pregnant women. Oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence may signify as abnormalities in skeletal and pulmonary hypoplasia and finally neonatal death were noticed.
During breast feeding usage of kadcyla should be avoided, Excretion into human milk is unknown. There is no information regarding using during breast feeding because of large protein molecule
Buy Belviq Online [ Overnight Delivery ] - Buy Belviq XR with No Rx
Homeaz pharma BELVIQ
QSYMIA	$195.00 – $700.00
BELVIQ Choose an option120 pills180 pills240 pills60 pills Clear
SKU: N/A Category: az pharma Tags: belviq, belviq before and after photos, belviq cost, belviq cost at walmart, belviq coupon, belviq coupons, belviq diet pill, belviq generic, belviq review, belviq weight loss, belviq xr, belviq xr coupon, belvique, buy belviq online, buy diet pill online, buy qsymia online, diet pills online, how to get qsymia prescription, locaserin, lorcaserin, lorcaserin (belviq), lorcaserin cost, lorcaserin hcl, lorcaserin side effects, online doctors who prescribe phentermine, online weight loss doctor, osymia, osymia diet pills, osymia weight loss, perscription diet pills online, phentermine amazon, phentermine buying online, phentermine diet pills for sale, phentermine online prescriptions, phentermine prescribed online, phentermine prescription online doctor, phentermine without presc, q.com, qsymia advantage, qsymia average weight loss, qsymia buy online, qsymia cost, qsymia diet pill, qsymia generic, qsymia online, qsymia online consult, qsymia price, qsymia weight loss, quisma diet pill, weight loss drug list
Buy Belviq online, Belviq XR (lorcaserin hydrochloride) extended-release tablets for oral use is a serotonin 2C receptor agonist for oral administration used for chronic weight management. Its chemical name is (R)-8-chloro-1-methyl2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride hemihydrate. Lorcaserin hydrochloride hemihydrate is a white to off-white powder with solubility in water greater than 400 mg/mL. Each Belviq xr tablet contains 20.8 mg of crystalline lorcaserin hydrochloride hemihydrate, equivalent to 20.0 mg anhydrous lorcaserin hydrochloride.
Uses of Belviq XR
Lorcaserin is used with a doctor-approved exercise, behavior change, and reduced-calorie diet program to help you lose weight. It is used by certain overweight people, such as those who are obese or have weight-related medical problems. Losing weight and keeping it off can lessen the many health risks that come with obesity, including heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, and a shorter life. Lorcaserin belongs to a class of drugs known as serotonin-receptor agonists. It is thought to work by affecting a certain part of the brain that helps control your appetite.
Side Effects of Belviq XR
Nausea, dry mouth, headache, dizziness, constipation, or tiredness may occur. If any of these effects last or get worse, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. Tell your doctor right away if you have any serious side effects, including: easy bleeding/bruising, enlarged breasts or abnormal breast milk production, mental/mood changes (such as confusion, depression, thoughts of suicide, unusual agitation, difficulty with attention/memory), shaking/twitching muscles, shortness of breath, slow/fast/irregular heartbeat, swelling ankles/feet/hands, unexplained fever.
