The global Smart Meters market is all set to gain substantial demand opportunities from various end-use industries, according to a new report from Factor. This report on the global Remote Control market offers a complete overview of various key elements impacting positively or negatively on the overall growth of the market for Remote Control. Detailed information on consumptions and demand ratio of diverse products/services linked to the growth dynamics of the Remote Control market is covered in this report. This aside, the report presents reliable data on revenues and volumes of all key geographical regions during the forecast period 2018 to 2029.
The report on the global Remote Control market works as a helpful guide that provides dependable data on various aspects such as challenges and opportunities in this market. In addition to this, readers of this report will get an in-depth analysis of diverse trends together with technological and product developments in the global Remote Control market. To offer an in-depth study of the Remote Control market, the report carries out the segmentation of this market on the basis of various key aspects such as product type, end-use/application, and region.
Request to View Sample of Research Report @ https://www.factmr.com/connectus/sample?flag=S&rep_id=3575
Diverse projections and estimations presented in the report on the global Remote Control market are the output of primary and secondary research carried out by Fact.MR analysts. The analysts have used diverse business intelligence tools to present trustworthy data on diverse aspects such as statistics and facts on important aspects of the global Remote Control market.
The report covers an analysis of the competitive landscape of the global Remote Control market together with a detailed study of the most important players working in this market. The list of key players studied in this report includes:
In addition to this, the report sheds light on diverse strategies executed by market players to gain the leading position in the market for Remote Control. Some of the key strategies in trend today are mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and product launches.
On the basis of end-use, the Remote Control market report includes:
While crafting this report, analysts have considered all changes that occurred in the Remote Control market due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Regulatory bodies of the various regions including developed and developing countries are presently working on the introduction of new regulations. These regulations will help countries to handle the ongoing macrocosmic distress owing to the COVID-19 outbreak in all those locations. Thus, the study presented in this report will work as an important source of data on various vital factors such as the shifting government policies owing to COVID-19 disruptions.
To Know More Information about This Report, Ask The Analyst @ https://www.factmr.com/connectus/sample?flag=AE&rep_id=3575
The data presented in the report on the global Remote Control market is helpful for important stakeholders such as industry players, investors, and policymakers. This data is intended to assist them in deciding their next strategies to deal with the impact of recent COVID-19 pandemic and continue gaining prominent revenues in the market for Remote Control. Thus, the report helps new entrants and established companies who aim to become prominent organizations in the post-COVID period.
Everyone experiences pain at one point or another. It often is an indication that something is wrong. Each individual is the best judge of his or her own pain. Pain is an unpleasant feeling that is conveyed to the brain by sensory neurons. The discomfort signals actual or potential injury to the body. Perception gives information on the pain's location, intensity, and something about its nature.
The various conscious and unconscious responses to both sensation and perception, including the emotional response, add further definition to the overall concept of pain.Feelings of pain can range from mild and occasional to severe and constant. Pain falls in to two categories: Acute and Chronic
Acute pain begins suddenly and is usually sharp in quality. It serves as a warning of disease or a threat to the body. Acute pain may be caused by many events or circumstances, including:
Acute pain may be mild and last just a moment, or it may be severe and last for weeks or months. In most cases, acute pain does not last longer than six months and it disappears when the underlying cause of pain has been treated or has healed. Unrelieved acute pain, however, may lead to chronic pain.
Chronic pain refers to pain that persists after an injury heals.It is estimated that one in three people in the United States will experience chronic pain at some point in their lives. Of these people, approximately 50 million are either partially or completely disabled. Common chronic pain complaints include:
Whether Acute pain or Chronic pain there is a very likely a treatment that can relieve your pain. While your pain or discomfort may be located in any of the areas listed below the actual dianosis may be the same and treatment will depend on these criteria.
When you consult with the doctor be sure an have all relavent history available, such as, any documentation, xrays and medcation prescriptions, and if you have had any previous attempts at a surgical or non-surgical pain management therapy. At PMPA our goal is treat you just the way we would want to be treated and our mission is to get you active again.
Doctors use the term radiculopathy to specifically describe pain, and other symptoms like numbness, tingling, and weakness in your arms or legs that are caused by a problem with your nerve roots. The nerve roots are branches of the spinal cord that carry signals to the rest of the body at each level along the spine. This term comes from a combination of the Latin word "radix," which means the roots of a tree, and the Latin word "pathos," which means a disease. This disease is often caused by direct pressure from a herniated disc or degenerative changes in the lumbar spine that cause irritation and inflammation of the nerve roots.
Radiculopathy usually creates a pattern of pain and numbness that is felt in your arms or your legs in the area of skin supplied by sensory fibers of the nerve root, and weakness in the muscles that are also supplied by the same nerve root. The number of roots that are involved can vary, from one to several, and it can also affect both sides of the body at the same time.
The most common symptom of lumbar radiculopathy is sciatica. This is a pain that radiates from your back into your buttocks, and down your legs to the feet. Sensory symptoms are more common than motor symptoms, and muscle weakness is usually a sign that the nerve compression is more severe.
The quality and type of pain can vary, from dull, aching, and difficult to localized, sharp, burning, and easy to pinpoint. Radiculopathy can create hypersensitivity to touch as well as numbness in the area of skin that is supplied by the nerve root. Symptoms such as numbness and tingling, and especially weakness in your leg muscles in the presence of back pain are warning signs that your problem may be more serious and you should see a doctor.
There are several different causes of radiculopathy, but the correct diagnosis of the cause of your symptoms begins with a complete physical examination of the entire body, with special emphasis on the back and lower extremities. Your doctor will examine your back for flexibility, range of motion, and the presence of certain signs that suggest that a particular nerve root is being affected. This often involves testing the strength of your muscles and checking your reflexes to make sure that they are still working normally. You will often be asked to fill out a diagram that asks you where your symptoms of pain, numbness, tingling and weakness are occurring.
A routine set of x-rays is also usually ordered when a patient with back pain goes to see a doctor. An MRI scan or a CT scan (CAT scan) can also be part of the evaluation for the causes of radiculopathy. An MRI scan is very useful for determining where the nerve roots are being compressed because this type of a scan is designed to show the details of soft-tissue structures, like nerves and discs. A CT scan is often used to evaluate the bony anatomy in the lumbar spine, which can show how much space is available for the nerve roots. The nerve roots exit the spinal canal through a bony tunnel called the neuroforamen, and it is at this point that the nerve roots are especially vulnerable to compression.
The doctor will be able to discuss with you what your diagnosis means in terms of treatment options. For most people who do not have evidence of nerve root compression with muscle weakness, the first line of therapy includes non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, rest, and physical therapy. A soft back brace or lumbar support is often prescribed in order to allow the back to have a chance to rest.
Surgery for radiculopathy is offered as an early option for people who have evidence of muscle weakness that is being caused by nerve root compression. This is because muscle weakness is a definite sign that the nerves are being injured (more seriously than when pain is the only symptom) and relieving the pressure on the nerves can be more of a priority. In most other situations, surgery is offered only after physical therapy, rest, and medications have failed to adequately relieve the symptoms of pain, numbness and weakness over a significant period of time.
Failed back syndrome or post-laminectomy syndrome is a condition characterized by persistent pain following back surgeries. Failed back syndrome (FBS), also called "failed back surgery syndrome" (FBSS), refers to chronic back and/or leg pain that occurs after back (spinal) surgery. It is characterized as a chronic pain syndrome. Multiple factors can contribute to the onset or development of FBS.
Contributing factors include but are not limited to residual or recurrent disc herniation, persistent post-operative pressure on a spinal nerve, altered joint mobility, joint hypermobility with instability, scar tissue (fibrosis), depression, anxiety, sleeplessness and spinal muscular deconditioning. An individual may be predisposed to the development of FBS due to systemic disorders such as diabetes, autoimmune disease and peripheral blood vessels (vascular) disease. Smoking is a risk for poor recovery.
Common symptoms associated with FBS include diffuse, dull and aching pain involving the back and/or legs. Abnormal sensibility may include sharp, pricking, and stabbing pain in the extremities. The term “post-laminectomy syndrome” is used by some doctors to indicate the same condition as failed back syndrome.
The treatments of post-laminectomy syndrome include physical therapy, minor nerve blocks, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), behavioral medicine, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) medications, membrane stabilizers, antidepressants, spinal cord stimulation, and intracathecal morphine pump. Use of epidural steroid injections may be minimally helpful in some cases. The targeted anatomic use of a potent anti-inflammatory anti-TNF therapeutics is being investigated.
Epidural fibrosis refers to the formation of scar tissue near the nerve root following back surgery. Symptoms of epidural fibrosis typically occur within 6-12 weeks after surgery, and can get better with time (usually within 3 months). If symptoms do not improve, the spine surgery is unlikely to have been successful.
symptoms associated with epidural fibrosis appear at 6 to 12 weeks after back surgery. This is often preceded by an initial period of pain relief, after which the patient slowly develops recurrent leg pain. Sometimes, the improvement occurs immediately after back surgery, but occasionally the nerve damage from the original pathology makes the nerve heal more slowly.
In general, if the patient experiences continued leg pain directly after spine surgery, but starts to improve over the next three months, he or she should continue to improve. If, however, there is no improvement by three months postoperatively, the spine surgery is unlikely to have been successful, and the patient will continue to have back pain or leg pain.
Stretching the nerve root while the body is healing (scarring in) after back surgery can help limit epidural fibrosis from becoming a clinical problem. Most scar tissue forms within the first 6 to 12 weeks after back surgery. The theory is that if the nerve is kept mobile while the wound heals, the nerve will not be bound down by adhesions and the scar tissue that develops should not become a problem. Routinely pumping the ankle while stretching the hamstrings will move the nerve across the operative disc site.
Degenerative disc disease (DDD) is part of the natural process of growing older. Unfortunately, as we age, our intervertebral discs lose their flexibility, elasticity, and shock absorbing characteristics. The ligaments that surround the disc called the annulus fibrosis, become brittle and they are more easily torn. At the same time, the soft gel-like center of the disc, called the nucleus pulposus, starts to dry out and shrink. The combination of damage to the intervertebral discs, the development of bone spurs, and a gradual thickening of the ligaments that support the spine can all contribute to degenerative arthritis of the lumbar spine.
The most common symptom of degenerative disc disease is back pain. When DDD causes compression of the nerve roots, the pain often radiates down the legs or into the feet, and may be associated with numbness and tingling. In severe cases of lumbar DDD, where there is evidence of nerve root compression, individuals may experience symptoms of sciatica and back pain, and sometimes even lower extremity weakness.
The diagnosis of degenerative disc disease begins with a physical examination of the body, with special attention paid to the back and lower extremities.Your doctor will examine your back for flexibility, range of motion, and the presence of certain signs that suggest that your nerve roots are being affected by degenerative changes in your back. This often involves testing the strength of your muscles and your reflexes to make sure that they are still working normally.You will often be asked to fill out a diagram that asks you where your symptoms of pain, numbness, tingling, and weakness are occurring. x-rays or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be ordered.
Most people with lumbar degenerative disc disease find relief through nonsurgical options, such as exercise or physical therapy. But for those who need surgery, spinal fusion is a proven choice. And for those who choose spinal fusion, there's a therapy that can eliminate a second surgery.
Causalgia is a rare pain syndrome related to partial peripheral nerve injuries. The peripheral nervous system encompasses nerves that extend from the central nervous system of the brain and spinal cord to serve limbs and organs. Severe cases are called major causalgia. Minor causalgia describes less severe forms, similar to reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD). RSD includes muscular and joint pain symptoms, and changes in bone density.
Causalgia is usually caused by brachial plexus injuries, involving nerves that run from the neck to the arm. The disruption of neural signals causes pain and increased release of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine, which causes vascular symptoms.
Symptoms usually involve burning pain prominent in the hand or foot within 24 hours of injury. Almost any sensory stimulation worsens the pain. Vascular changes include either increased or decreased blood flow due to dilation or constriction of blood vessels. Other symptoms include dry, scaly skin; still joints; tapering fingers; ridged nails; long, coarse hair or hair loss; and changes in sweating.
Diagnosis entails a thorough medical history and physical examination. Physical exams can be difficult to perform due to pain.
Intrathecal Drug Delivery for Chronic Pain Intrathecal Drug Delivery (IDD) directs prescribed pain medications to the spinal cord—affecting primarily the presynaptic and postsynaptic receptors in the gelatinosa of the posterior horn of the spinal cord.Intrathecal Drug Delivery (IDD) directs prescribed pain medications to the spinal cord—affecting primarily the presynaptic and postsynaptic receptors in the gelatinosa of the posterior horn of the spinal cord. Pain medications delivered directly to the intrathecal space are particularly effective because they don't circulate systemically to reach the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). As a result, effective pain relief may be achieved using much smaller doses than are used in orally administered analgesics (for example, approximately 1/300 of an oral morphine dose),1,2 thus reducing the frequency of side effects. Spinal Cord Stimulation Spinal cord stimulation alleviates pain by electrically activating pain-inhibiting neuronal circuits in the dorsal horn and inducing a tingling sensation (paresthesia) that masks the sensations of pain. As an intervention for chronic back and/or leg pain, spinal cord stimulation can be an effective alternative or adjunct treatment to other interventions that have failed to manage pain on their own. Spinal cord stimulation alleviates pain by electrically activating pain-inhibiting neuronal circuits in the dorsal horn and inducing a tingling sensation (paresthesia) that masks the sensations of pain.
Arachnoiditis is a neuropathic disease caused by the inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes that surround and protect the nerves of the central nervous system, including the brain and spinal cord. The arachnoid can become severely inflamed because of adverse reactions to chemicals, blood, and/or steroids, infection from bacteria or viruses, as the result of direct injury to the spine, chronic compression of spinal nerves, or complications from spinal surgery or other invasive spinal procedures such as epidural steroid injections.
Lumbar patches (also known as blood patches), which are often useful in relieving painful headaches associated with spinal taps and epidural anesthesia, have been found to be significant potential causative agents in some cases and may warrant avoidance of the procedure where possible. Multiple blood patches may amplify the probability of contracting arachnoiditis. It is also noteworthy that blood has been found to be a significant inflammatory agent in the nervous system. Inflammation can sometimes lead to the formation of scar tissue and adhesions which can cause the spinal nerves to "stick" together.
The swollen arachnoid can lead to a host of painful and debilitating symptoms. Chronic pain is common, including neuralgia. Numbness and tingling of the extremities is frequent in patients due to spinal cord involvement. Bowel, bladder, and sexual functioning can be affected if the lower part of the spinal cord is affected. While arachnoiditis has no consistent pattern of symptoms, it frequently affects the nerves that supply the legs and lower back.
Many sufferers find themselves unable to sit for long (or even short) periods of time, often due to severe pain as well as efferent neurological symptoms, such as difficulties controlling limbs. This can be particularly problematic for those patients who exhibit difficulties standing or walking for protracted periods, as wheelchairs are not helpful for this group. Some sufferers benefit from relatively new inventions, such as the Segway or the less expensive Stand'n'Ride alternative. Standing wheelchairs are also available, although often quite expensive and limited compared to these alternatives. However, standing endurance and vibration tolerance should be taken into account before a motorized assistance device is selected.
It is critical for patients to realize that the symptoms of arachnoiditis are highly varied and are not all experienced by all sufferers. Consequently, while typically significantly life-altering, the outcome, especially with physical therapy, appropriate psychotherapy, and medication, may be better than many patients fear upon receiving the diagnosis.
Arachnoiditis is a chronic disorder and there is no known cure at this time. Pain management techniques may provide some relief to patients. Prognosis may be hard to determine because of the lack of correlation between the beginning of the disease and the start of symptoms. For many, arachnoiditis is a disabling disease that causes chronic pain and neurological deficits. It may also lead to other spinal cord conditions, such as syringomyelia. Arachnoiditis is a difficult condition to treat. Treatment is limited to alleviation of pain and other symptoms. Surgical intervention generally has a poor outcome and only provides temporary relief. Steroid injections administered either intrathecally or epidurally have been linked as a cause of the disease, therefore they are generally discouraged as a treatment and may even worsen the condition.
Cancer pain can result from the cancer itself. Cancer can cause pain by growing into or destroying tissue near the cancer. Cancer pain can come from the primary cancer itself — where the cancer started — or from other areas in the body where the cancer has spread (metastases). As a tumor grows, it may put pressure on nerves, bones or other organs, causing pain.
Cancer pain may not just be from the physical effect of the cancer on a region of the body, but also due to chemicals that the cancer may secrete in the region of the tumor. Treatment of the cancer can help the pain in these situations. Pain begins with sensory cells, or neurons, called nociceptors. A pain message is transmitted along these neurons to the spinal cord. In the spinal cord, chemical messengers called neurotransmitters are released and act on other “ascending” neurons. Eventually, these ascending neurons carry the signal to the brain where it is perceived as pain. Oral medications may relieve pain but often cause serious side effects that dramatically affect the life of a patient and his or her family. Side effects include sedation, confusion, fatigue, constipation, nausea and vomiting.
A drug pump (also called an intrathecal drug delivery system) sends pain medication directly to the fluid around the spinal cord, providing pain relief with a small fraction of the medication needed if taken orally.
BT missed the pricing shakeup for portable digital radio this faces tough competition from The Pure Evoke deck.
You know the story; you’ve found an internet radio station online based in California. Trouble is you can’t get it on any other device than your desktop machine when connected to broadband. Rather than set up your PC on a trolley and wheel it around the house, BT has come up with the one solution: The BT Voyager Digital Media Player.
The unit and idea is a simple one, design and create a radio that will happily sit in any kitchen and give it wireless capabilities. The unit comes in two parts; a base station that plugs into your desktop PC via a USB connection and the radio itself.
Installation and setup was simple and you won’t need to be running a wireless network or have any technical savvy to understand how it all works. The radio itself has been designed to be as consumer-friendly as possible and looks like a portable radio. Powered by either a power pack or eight C cell batteries, the unit also includes two large speakers, a large backlit LCD display enabling users to see information such as radio station names and CD track information.
The Digital Media Player allows you to stream media from your PC as long as you are within the signal area - roughly 50m - and you can stream either internet radio, MP3s or CDs (as long the CD is in your CD drive in your Desktop PC). The unit also includes a terrestrial radio tuner if you just want to listen to Radio Four and even has an alarm clock if you feel like you might want to be woken up by it.
The BT Voyager Digital Media Player is the first of a wave of devices that are planning to make use of the growing number of households that have a broadband connection. Where other manufacturers, such as Netgear have gone for a more hi-fi separates style, BT has gone for the more traditional trannie radio approach and overall it has worked.
Nothing's perfect and you will have to have the base unit (ie the desktop PC) switched on all the time for this to work, but then the majority of devices that uses broadband require the same. If you really can't live without your MP3 music or favourite internet radio station elsewhere in the house then this is certainly one good way of sharing the love. Good but slightly pricey for most.
Lung disease - Green Blog - NYTimes.com
Posts tagged with LUNG DISEASE
Jun 15, 2012Jun 15, 2012	E.P.A. Casts New Soot Standard as Easily MetBy Leslie Kaufman	As anticipated, the Environmental Protection Agency announced on Friday that it was proposing to update and tighten national air quality standards for fine-particle soot.
Somewhat surprisingly, however, the agency said that by the time these new standards were fully in force in 2020, all but six counties in the United States would be in compliance with them as a result of steps taken to abide by other tightened rules. Getty ImagesHighway 60 in Riverside County, Calif., an area that faces notable air pollution challenges.
The E.P.A. also predicted that the costs of compliance would be relatively modest. Depending on the final standard adopted, it said, the costs of compliance could be as low as $2.9 million, with an anticipated $88 million a year in benefits, or range as high as $69 million, an investment that would yield $5.9 billion in benefits. The cost-benefit analysis shows that investing in pollution control yields returns, the agency said. Soot, or the microscopic particulates emitted by car tailpipes, diesel engines and industry smokestacks, among other sources, has been found to cause thousands of deaths from lung and heart disease.
Considering the hostile stance of many Congressional Republicans on the issue of environmental regulation, and the fact that President Obama is running for re-election this year, it is not surprising that the E.P.A. would emphasize the potential economic benefits in its announcement. Still, its analysis seemed somewhat perplexing; the agency's current count indicates that 162 counties and 17 partial counties exceed the maximum fine-particulate levels that are being proposed.
Dec 2, 2011Dec 2, 2011	New Pollution Rules for Boilers and IncineratorsBy John M. Broder	The Environmental Protection Agency on Friday released its much-delayed and oft-revised air quality regulations for industrial boilers and incinerators. The proposal is a modest refashioning of boiler rules introduced earlier this year, which were themselves a major revision of a 2010 plan by the agency that drew heavy political and industry opposition.
Category T - post on this topic
Tips - T chart cover letter samples | PDF, Writing Service, Example T chart cover letter samples Psychology of Aging article-awg--9-25-09-FINAL Running head: EFFECTS OF AGE ON DETECTION OF EMOTION 1 Effects of Age on Detection of Emotional Information Christina.
Tips - T mobile business plan requirements | PDF, Writing Service, Example T mobile business plan requirements T-Mobile Holiday Offer | T-Mobile.com 4.3 What Are The Voice And Data Plan Requirements ? 4.4 How Does AT T Calculate My Data Usage/Billing? . 4.15 AT T.
Tips - T.s. eliot research paper | PDF, Writing Service, Example T.s. eliot research paper A Study of Indian English Poetry - International Journal . International Journal of Scientific and Research Publications, Volume 2, Issue 10, October 2012 1 ISSN.
Tips - Ta assignments | PDF, Writing Service, Example Ta assignments AP2101/AP2111 Description Pin Assignments AP2101/AP2111 Document number: DS32015 Rev. 3 - 2 3 of 14 www.diodes.com January 2013 Diodes Incorporated AP2101/AP2111 Recommended.
Tips - Table content bachelor thesis | PDF, Writing Service, Example Table content bachelor thesis Management research in the hospitality and tourism … A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW OF KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT RESEARCH IN THE HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM INDUSTRY . by . Xu Cheng ..
Tips - Tables assigned to a role in oracle | PDF, Writing Service, Example Tables assigned to a role in oracle Administering and Reporting with Oracle BI Publisher Oracle BI Publisher . Creating Data Sources. To create a connection to . 1. 4. 4. b. is a reporting.
Taboo essays on culture
Tips - Taboo essays on culture | PDF, Writing Service, Example Taboo essays on culture The Sweetest Taboo: Studies of Caribbean Sexualities; … . Journal of Women in Culture and Society 2006, vol. 32, . The Sweetest Taboo : . (Smith 2000), which.
Tips - Tafe courses creative writing | PDF, Writing Service, Example Tafe courses creative writing Anthropology - BS Specializaion 6 Business - BA 8 1 AcAdemic degree PlAns - AssociAte in Arts - YeAr 2013 - 2014 CliCk on your Plan. Go to that PaGe. Degree.
T chart cover letter samplesT mobile business plan requirementsT.s. eliot research paperTa assignmentsTable content bachelor thesisTables assigned to a role in oracleTaboo essays on cultureTafe courses creative writingTafe courses in social workTainted glory book review
Patient Testimonials | Jaudy Treatment Center
Section 1: Patient Insights at the Jaudy Treatment Center
These short videos encapsulate patient's thoughts and insights from their experiences with Dr. Jaudy and his systems treatment approach.
Section 2: What Our Patients Tell Us…Patient Video Stories
Tracey M Testimonial: Tracey describes how no major hospital or doctor was able to help her until she saw Dr. Jaudy. Having seen multiple neurologists, neurosurgeons, and specialists at the Mayo Clinic, UCLA, UC, Cedars Sinai, Beverly Hills, Scripps, Tracey was dragged in by her mother and absolutely didn't want to see any more doctors. She describes the ordeal of panic attacks, migraines, IBS, interstitial cystitis, constant inflammation in the stomach, and ended up in ICU with multiple organ failure. She describes Dr. Jaudy's knowledge and testing as very impressive with amazing progress after only 2 weeks of treatment.
Tracey M Testimonial-Part 2: Tracey discusses for the first time her ability to function after bouts of severe anxiety and pain for 25 years and having been on strong medications consistently for the last 13 years. She describes how her circulation was restored with as well other profound improvements after treatment with Dr. Jaudy.
Mark M on Tracey and Himself: Mark discusses his wife's dramatic recovery, his symptoms of massive twitching and experience as a patient and what Dr. Jaudy has meant to them both. "It's been a just a nightmare for the past 20 years. Due to this ordeal we've not even been able to have a normal conversation. After just 2 weeks of treatment with Dr. Jaudy, I now see and have the girl I married back."
Jeanne-Camryn Testimonial: Jeanne, Camryn's grandmother, and 12-year-old Camryn both describe how she was challenged by seizures and the results of treatment with Dr. Jaudy.
Sandy D Testimonial: "I have worked both in pharmacy and Alternative health and I have been searching for over 40 years for relief and improvement. I tell you that Dr. Jaudy's knowledge saves you from wasting money and years of searching. This is beyond anything we have ever experienced. I would travel across the world to see Dr. Jaudy. I tell everyone, start with the best, and Dr. Jaudy will be your last."
Sandy D Testimonial: Sandy was originally diagnosed with multiple auto immune diseases such as Multiple Sclerosis, Lupus, DISH, and 3 years later she is doing wonderful after having been treated by Dr. Jaudy.
Nanci S Testimonial:Nanci was considering steel rod surgery in her spine for her progressively worsening scoliosis and its debilitating effects. After decades-long suffering, she discusses her incredible healing after treatment with Dr. Jaudy and how amazingly her curve is now just millimeters from the midline.
Taline T Testimonial: Taline describes the dramatic results of her first treatment with Dr. Jaudy for scoliosis and which enabled her own body to self-correct. Her joyful disbelief at long term results after suffering for years with pain and imbalance of scoliosis, digestive problems, acne, and severe menstrual pain.
Ellene C Testimonial: Eileen describes the internal comfort, balance, and relaxation after life-long crookedness in her body due to spinal fusion as a teenager and late effects of polio. She offers her excellent results and thanks to Dr. Jaudy.
Cindy H Testimonial: Sick for over 10 years with fatigue, peripheral neuropathy, circulation and organ dysfunction, dizziness, falling backwards, and worse, despite seeing doctor after doctor. After only 5 sessions with Dr. Jaudy, Cindy describes her dramatic turn around.
Kristen S Testimonial:
Kristen's daughter was recommended for major brain surgery by pediatric epileptic specialists. Kristen describes the 15 treatments with Dr. Jaudy total over a few months and how a panel of 8 doctors at UCLA were baffled after post EEGs and a 3 day hospital stay with monitoring. The doctors were not being able to find nor induce any seizures in the child.
Sheila W Testimonial: Sheila speaks about how her 35 year old addiction and battle with alcohol is gone after only the 7th treatment with Dr. Jaudy. She no longer has any cravings after 35 yearsand details how Dr. Jaudy was able to finally help her overcome her addiction.
Bill B Testimonial: Having been around the world seeing numerous specialists and seeking results for his condition, Dr. Bill hears about Dr. Jaudy and travels from Colorado for treatment. After searching for 20 years for a breakthrough treatment, Dr. Bill discusses the huge strides and progress in his condition of Multiple Sclerosis MS beginning with only the 3rd treatment.
Multiple Sclerosis-Anhydrosis-Difficulty Walking – Dr. Bill B:
Cindy P Testimonial: Cindy came in with Hashimotos Thyroiditis and all the associated aches and pains. After treatments by Dr. Jaudy, Cindy's blood work came back completely free of Hashimotos.
Germania D Testimonial: Germania describes her extreme and decades-long sickness, pain and suffering from Meniere's, tinnitus, ear aches, vertigo, dizziness, nausea, vomiting constantly, falling, fibromyalgia, restless leg syndrome, migraines, memory loss, hair falling out, lupus, weak immune system, chronic neck and back pain, and severe depression after seeing Dr. Jaudy for just a short time. She describes the examination and the very first treatment to her recovery.
Germania D Testimonial after 1 month: Germania explains how she has made even more progress since her first video.
Germania D Testimonial: Germania completed her was original treatment 3 years ago has been living her life, travelling, cruising and feeling great. Since then she comes in every few months, or a few times per year for regular check-ups and maintenance. Germania explains how she was recently shocked by an electric fence and how it seriously affected her body, but because she was previously treated in the past she bounced back to normal in only 2treatments!
Germania D Testimonial: Germania describes her good health after 6 years of being under the care of Dr. Jaudy.
Long Term Results with Dr. Jaudy, 7 Years of Health – Germania D:
Uterine Fibroids – Germania D-Part 6:
Germania Describes Frightening Procedures Before Dr. Jaudy – Part 7:
Becky G Testimonial: Becky's interesting account of her treatments, pituitary gland, mercury affects and how Dr. Jaudy observed it and how it was resolved. Becky gives insight to Dr. Jaudy's acute scientific understanding, perception and how treatments took her to optimum neurological health.
Christene S Testimonial: Christene shares her story of seizures, high blood pressure, migraines, depression, and her dramatic and quick recovery.
Tony B Testimonial: Tony discusses his long standing conditions of severe hip and foot arthritis, high blood pressure, allergies, cholesterol and how quickly the treatments from Dr. Jaudy have helped him.
Tony B on Mary:Tony relates the frightening five year medical crisis that his wife, Mary, went through. The depression and hopelessness that set in when every kind of specialist and diagnostic test at UCLA could not root out the problem and how Dr. Jaudy brought her health back.
Mary A Testimonial: Mary was bed ridden and severely sick with symptoms of Multiple Sclerosis and ALS, fibromyalgia, Migraines, chronic fatigue, heart palpitations, Restless Leg Syndrome, internal nervous tension, neck and back pain, could not get out of bed, walk alone, or stand up without tipping over. When multiple specialists and every kind of diagnostic test at UCLA could not root out the problem, major depression began to set in with hopelessness. Mary describes the ordeal she and Tony have gone through over the past 5 years and can't say enough about how much Dr. Jaudy has helped her.
Maria F Testimonial: Maria was afraid as only a mother can be afraid when her 15 year old daughter began having seizures. Dr. Jaudy gave her daughter a series of treatments which brought the teenager to good health.
Jose B Testimonial: Jose describes the challenges of trying to help his autistic child. Jose who resides in Virginia flew in to Palm Desert to receive care at the facility, and gives a detailed account and how Dr. Jaudy was able to help.
Kathy K Testimonial: Kathy is a registered nurse who came to see Dr. Jaudy after hearing incredible success stories, and describes her rapid recovery from severe and bilateral knee pain.
Pat M Testimonial: Pat has struggled with severe digestive problems.
John M Testimonial: I travelled from Reno Nevada to see Dr. Jaudy who came so highly recommended and because of the amazing things I have heard about him, and for the constant pain in my back and knees" …more from John on his video page
Julie S Testimonial:"I drive three and a half hours each way to get treated by Dr. Jaudy and it is so worth it. I have been treated by numerous doctors over the past 30 years was never stable enough to go for long periods without care. After about 10 sessions with Dr. Jaudy I knew what it was like to feel stable for the first time in my life, and had no more dizziness or neck pain. That's especially saying a lot when I ride in my motor home!"
Neck and Back Problems – Andrea P-Part 1: "The methods of investigation and the report he provided me with were quite different than my other experiences. He does not do the typical type of treatments where your neck or back is popped or your hips are twisted." …more from Andrea on her video page
Chronic Back Pain-Migraines – Alison T: Alison is a nurse of ten years in the field of pain management and she herself has suffered from chronic pain, migraines, TMJ, hormonal issues, menstrual cramps, and low back pain. She didn't want to go down the road of her patients that she saw being treated for all the effects of many medications. Dr. Jaudy came highly recommended to her and she shares her story to give hope for all those that suffer.
Bob K Testimonial: Bob suffered severe constipation and was referred to Dr. Jaudy as last resort after he was told his colon did not work and would never work again by a specialist. Bob relates his how he had 5 bowel movements in one day after he received specific treatment.
Amy C Testimonial: An accomplished lawyer, architect, and athlete, Amy felt stripped of her identity was disabled and bedridden due to the extreme amount of suffering with severe chronic fatigue, headaches, hip injury, nausea, inability to tolerate foods and extreme GI distress. She had seen 20 doctors, and after diligent research, Amy discovered that although she was taking the best supplements, it was not restoring her health. She describes how Dr. Jaudy gave her no supplements, her response to treatment with Dr. Jaudy, and her delight in being able to eat cheeseburgers and bread after many years!
Melinda Z Testimonial: Melinda came in to see Dr. Jaudy out of total desperationafter already having seen many medical doctors and herbalists for insomnia, severe chronic diarrhea, stomach and digestive problems, severe depression, and chronic pain in every part of her body along with imbalance, stumbling, and falling. She describes her experience with brain-based weight loss and how she was delighted to that she lost 18 pounds and 19 inches without even trying in 12-15 visits! Melinda discusses her treatment results and how though the treatment itself is subtle, results are dramatic.
Marianna O Testimonial: Marianna is an opera singer, and had many problems due to her previous diagnosis of lack of oxygen to the brain and osteoarthritis, shortness of breath, memory problems, elevated blood pressure, osteoporosis, fibromyalgia, and dizziness. She describes Dr. Jaudy's unique technology and knowledge, how she feels after treatment, and how she can now sing like a bird!
Lynda D Testimonial: Lynda is from Canada and describes how Dr. Jaudy did wonders for her after having two strokes, vertigo, shortness of breath, blacking out, high blood pressure, no energy and fatigue all day, weight gain, scoliosis and pain in legs. After having seen many neurologist, Dr. Jaudy was able to pinpoint her problems and recounts the difference it made starting with the first treatment.
Shirley J Testimonial: Shirley was bed ridden for 2 years with Stiff Person's Syndrome and had seen neurologists at the Mayo clinic, UCLA. She was told that no one could help her and that the autoimmune diagnosis would only get worse. She recounts her debilitating symptoms of dizziness, stiffness, inability to walk, shower, drive and how she has no more dizziness, her feeling of wellness, how she is now able to breathe well. She also discusses her conversation with other patient's in the waiting room and what they told her about Dr. Jaudy.
Beth K Testimonial: Beth from Oregon came to see Dr. Jaudy due to excrutiating pain after previous surgeries and major hardware for her broken back. Shehad 4 cages of titanium metal and rods and handles which pinched her sciatic nerve. She resolved not to have any more surgeries and sought by Dr. Jaudy. Beth's knee pain resolved from the first treatment, she no longer suffers from sciatic pain or IBS, and describes how she feels 110% in only 7 days of treatment.
Brenda S Testimonial: Brenda and her husband had heard about Dr. Jaudy and flew in from Canada with all their 3 children to be all treated. Brenda suffered from with anxiety, abdominal, stomach, gallbladder, and GI discomfort and excrutiating pain, bloating, memory problems, insomnia (wakefulness), and falling and tripping. She describes husband's 20 year ordeal with his liver dysfunction (8 doctors and 12 prescriptions later) and her daughter's severe depression and how the weight has been taken off her family. Brenda's anxiety is gone and can't begin to describe how happy and well she feels and the amazing results they each received.
Pat S & Shari Testimonial: Pat heard about Dr. Jaudy and came to see him because she suffered with essential tremors. She describes her response starting with the first few sessions and over the course of 12 treatments with Dr. Jaudy. Her daughter Shari describes her mother's improvements and their interaction with Dr. Jaudy.
Sharae R Testimonial: Sharae was losing hope and resigned to give up on life due to her long term suffering starting at only 8 years old with scoliosis, thyroid problems, poor digestion, constant back pain, weight gain, neuropathy, brain fog, constipation, and other poor quality of life symptoms. She had all types of medical treatment, nutrition, herbal, and other therapies. She researched and studied all her life and even went to school in hopes of finding the answers but still could not get well. Sharae describes her treatments with Dr. Jaudy and relates what happened on her 5th treatment… and what it is like when you finally find the answer.
Cathe D Testimonial: Cathe is from Colorado, having heard about Dr. Jaudy, she travelled to be treated. She could not enjoy any quality of life due to chronic, constant, and severe headaches, sleep apnea, snoring, waking up gasping for breath and lack of oxygen while sleeping. After 2 weeks of treatment she relates not only how well she feels but it affected her libido!
Cora R Testimonial: Cora was very impressed by her son's treatment results with Dr. Jaudy and so became a patient. Dr. Jaudy pinpointed the important finding that Cora wasn't getting enough oxygen pumping into her brain. This was causing a serious problem of inability to wake up properly, weak lungs, shortness of breath, along with extreme fatigue and lack of energy. Listen to Cora as she describes how incredibly accurate and valuable the details were in Dr. Jaudy's spot on exam.
Edward R Testimonial, Cora's son: Edward may be young but he is a successful full time Professional Golfer, competing and winning internationally, including Dubai, London, Manila. He has been training professionally since the age of 12 and has played officially with the PGA competing for the highest levels. Edward initially sought Dr. Jaudy for back pain but was pleasantly surprised at how the Brain-Based Neurological Treatments allowed him to excel in his sport.
Deanne H Testimonial: Deanne has been chronically ill for 27 years and after having seen at least 25 doctors looking for answers, said she needed not a doctor but a detective! Until Dr. Jaudy, she could not find anyone that understood her ambiguously understood symptoms which made her TMJ (jaw) and multiple joints 'go out' or distort and misalign such as her wrist, rib, elbow, and neck from just mere sounds or hyperacusis(sound sensitivity) or touch (nerve hypersensitivity). This caused her to have pinched nerve pain which made her constantly have to seek chiropractic for temporary relief. She also suffered from IBS, Urinary frequency, chronic fatigue, exhaustion, and digestive disorders. She describes how Dr. Jaudy's Brain-Based adjustments are different. She now recounts her improvement beginning after only 3 treatments and how not only how delighted she is that she can now eat the foods she loves without pain, but most of all the stabilization, normalcy and freedom she experienced when she received the proper treatment for the bizarre symptoms of brain misfiring!
Ed D Testimonial: Ed was scheduled to have surgery on his hand for a dupuytren's contracture . Ed describes how he regained use of his hand when Dr. Jaudy diagnosed and treated the cause of the problem.
Ellen M Testimonial: Ellen had a shoulder replacement was told by neurologists and orthopedic doctors that she would never have full movement and it would be 18 months to 2 years before she would even have movement . In just 2-3 treatments with Dr. Jaudy's treatment she had incredible amount of shoulder range of motion and movement and after 12 treatments she describes the amazing turnaround.
Inga M Testimonial: Inga has suffered with debilitating irritable bowel syndrome or IBS for the past 8 years that did not resolve and continued to worsen despite seeing several doctors and having gone through extensive testing including colonoscopy, bacteria and allergy testing. The treatment regime of pills would only make her throw up. She also suffered from insomnia, but after 4 treatments with Dr. Jaudy she describes how she slept through the night with diarrhea resolving after the 5th treatment. In addition, she was previously labeled with back pain, stiffness and sciatica however even those symptoms responded wonderfully when she underwent the cause with brain-based treatment!
Jan A Testimonial: Jan suffered with Migraine Headaches for over 40 years and since she turned 50 had them daily for 8 and 1Ž2 years! After suffering constantly despite all types of treatments, she was at the end of her rope and considered migraine surgery until heard about Dr. Jaudy. She recounts how she broke her pattern of migraines with Dr. Jaudy and her turnaround. She also describes an organ remapping correction for an intestinal procedure and another Functional Neurology procedure which allowed her entire spine to 'fall into place' or self correct.
Linda A Testimonial: After having suffered greatly due to a Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and concussion, Linda had seen many doctors and was delighted with the fresh and new Dr. Jaudy's fresh and new approach and results in such a short time. She comments on treatmentexperience with Dr. Jaudy and her restored hope.
Jerry B Testimonial: Jerry has seen over 30 integrative and alternative health physicians with very limited success for a multiple of problems and symptoms stemming from his diabetes, congestive heart failure, 2 heart attacks and severe peripheral neuropathy. Jerry speaks of his positive and rapid results that he was finally able to achieve with Dr. Jaudy, including relief of insomnia and constipation. He talks of Organ Remapping treatment results and how with one particular procedure he was able to have 25 bowel movements in a 24 hour period.
Lorna C Testimonial part 1: Lorna flew in from Canada to be treated by Dr. Jaudy after a friend's referral. She describes a myriad of symptoms of brain misfiring including external and internal tremors, brain fog and memory challenges, imbalance, dizziness, blood sugar, digestion issues, and more. She discusses her treatment experience and blood pressure, digestion, sleep and more.
Lorna C Testimonial part 2: Lorna discusses all the changes in her condition in the short 2 weeks that she was treated relief from chronic fatigue with huge amount energy that she hasn't had in 20 years. She speaks of the applications targeted on the rebuilding of pathways and the interaction with Dr. Jaudy throughout her treatment.
Lorna C Testimonial part 3: Lorna articulates her experience and state at a higher level of Brain Rewiring and Organ Remapping and regulation of hypoglycemia. Listen to her express the amazing results of Brain-Based Body Sculpting in just days! A truly unique experience where under Dr. Jaudy's treatment she built thigh and abdomen muscles just laying on her back simply breathing normally. She seen many people come and go at the JTC with different conditions and relays that all this sounds like science fiction that is not possible … but it's not too good to be true!
Lorna C Testimonial part 4: Lorna 6 months later elaborates on the numerous benefits of Brain Integration and very importantly on her ability to feel joy again. She relates how she is able to perform her activites now without fatigue and without effort….and how it is the brain that allows for anti-aging and for you to feel young!
Mary L Testimonial: Mary discusses how her treatment results with Dr. Jaudy were fast and effective after having undergone previous treatment elsewhere for 2 years. She describes what makes Dr. Jaudy and his methods different as well as the benefits she received from Organ Remapping.
Mary L Testimonial on her son Tice: After a head on car accident 2 years ago, Mary's son Tice could not fully recover from debilitating symptoms of post-concussion syndrome and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Mary describes Dr. Jaudy's thorough testing and the turnaround and after only 9 treatments with Dr. Jaudy.
Tice L Testimonial: Tice suffered Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) from a major head on car collision as well as abdominal injuries and surgery for a burst artery, fractured leg, whiplash and a concussion. No one could understand the source of long standing symptoms which lingered and affected his daily life and performance at school. Ticedescribes his turn around, experience and healing when he began treatment with Dr. Jaudy's treatments.
Maria V Testimonial: After hearing about Dr. Jaudy's methods, Maria came in with lower back stenosis with severe pain in her leg with numbness and tingling in both feet and toes. Here she speaks about her results after the 7th session.
Raj L Testimonial: Raj who previously worked in a hospital where she was told there wasn't anything that could be done for the vision in her eye and other health issues. Her knee cartilage was also bone on bone (degenerative joint disease, DJD) but she wanted to avoid surgery so after hearing about Dr. Jaudy traveled from Santa Monica to be treated. Here she sweetly expresses the results she received, including improvement in her vision and treatment experience with Dr. Jaudy.
Sharon F Testimonial: Sharon struggled for over two years with IBS, gas, bloating, pain, pressure, diarrhea, and constipation She literally tried everything form thousands of dollars worth of procedures, MRIs , colonoscopies, endoscopies, antibiotics, medications, creams, supplements, and regimens yet nothing was working as she kept getting worse. She could not work or go anywhere as she needed to be by the bathroom constantly and was just in agony. She researched out Dr. Jaudy's approach in neurology in order to address the root causes of her condition. Sharon recounts how her symptoms improved by 80% in the first 24 hours following the first treatment.
Joyce W Testimonial part 1: Joyce has suffered with severe shingles pain for 4 years and could not get rid of the shingles pain despite trying everything including pain specialists and strong drugs such as Lyrica for Fibromyalgia, Cymbalta, Oxycodone, and Percocet every 4-5 hours and still other medications in between! She became intrigued with what she heard about Dr. Jaudy from her assistant. Only 2 visits with Dr. Jaudy the pain began to rapidly subside and she says she could not have believed what happened had it not happened to her. She elaborates on her treatment with Dr. Jaudy, how she is tickled pink about the results plus the added benefit of losing 6 pounds in just a few short treatments!
Joyce W Testimonial part 2: Joyce who came in for severe shingles pain speaks after her 4th treatment session with Dr. Jaudy. When she received proper treatment, the shingles pain wasn't an issue anymore. The next hidden decompensating layer that was revealed was back pain. Dr. Jaudy then remapped the relevant areas and her brain to her lower back and that also resolved. Dr. Jaudy's treatment methodology enables the body to decompensate the hidden neurological layers to reach the underlying cause.
Joyce W Testimonial part 3:
Joyce originally came in for severe shingles pain and was on a variety of heavy medication for over 4 years. She relates how it was recommended for her to complete 15 initial treatment sessions, but because she responded so rapidly after her 8 treatments, Dr. Jaudy testing revealed that she did not need treatment on her 9th visit and so did not receive treatment that day as was scheduled but was re-scheduled 3 weeks out. Comment: Treatment plans at the Jaudy Treatment Center are dynamic and are customized to patient's status and modified according to response, not pre-programmed, pre-decided and generalized protocols that all patients of a certain condition need to fit into.
Linda G Testimonial:
Linda has been coughing constantly for 20 years non-stop … morning, noon and night. After having tried many treatments and specialists over 20 years, she was finally referred to Dr. Jaudy. Here she relates her success after only 4 treatments.
Ruth D Testimonial: Ruth is from Kansas City and came to see Dr. Jaudy as a last resort. She suffered from extreme pain and was diagnosed with Fibromyalgia. After different doctors and treatments, she ran out of places to go and so Ruth came to see Dr. Jaudy for a week. She relates her progress and success after 7 days of treatment.
Tracey D Testimonial part 1:
Tracey D Testimonial part 2:
Back Pain-Scoliosis – Andy V-Part 1: Andy has suffered for over 30 years with symptoms of chronic back pain, scoliosis and was diagnosed with Atrial fibrillation. All care he had previously received with providers was always temporary. He was tired of dealing with the symptoms and not the causes and followed 3 of his friends who had come to see Dr. Jaudy. As a world class athlete, swimmer, and professional trainer, Andy was very in tune with his performance but when he saw that his one of his friends who saw Dr. Jaudy all of a sudden succeeded to cycle a distance past him he decided to act. Andy relates the fascinating results of Organ applications with post treatment testing of medical findings.
Back Pain-Scoliosis-Atrial Fibrillation – Andy V-Part 2: Andy followed 3 friends who had seen Dr. Jaudy in order to finally address the source of decades unresolved and unrelenting issues of chronic back painwhich caused inability to sleep and scoliosis. He was also diagnosed with atrial fibrillation. He describes the Organ Remapping treatment results as nothing short of miraculous, evident to his wife and friends, and describes how fabulous he feels and is able to function again like he was in college 30 years ago. Listen to Andy's profound results in only 10 visits.
Hank T Testimonial:
Kenna C Testimonial:
Kenna who was in complete system and organ dysfunction and relates that she knew death was imminent. She was bed-ridden and unable to eat any solid food and thus was on a liquid food diet only. She was also unable to eat, walk, or sleep. With a multitude of diagnoses from auto-immune diseases ofPotts, Sjogren's Syndrome, Dysautonomia, to Heart Arrhythmia, IBS, polycystuic ovaries, fibrocystic breast disease, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, Epstein Bar virus, Meniere's disease, migraines, head pressure, allergies, constant chest and stomach pain, joint and muscle pain in every joint, and even more. It was even painful for her to see and hear due to light sound sensitivity and certain sounds or pitches would send her into anxiety attacks.
She describes her joy as she recounts being able to eat foods that she was previously allergic to and her results and changes she underwent while under treatment experience of Organ Remapping and Brain remapping.
After an exhausting 20 year journey with specialists and multiple testing of every kind, Kenna relates her interaction with Jaudy, his discerning knowledge, thorough testing, explanations, and how quickly the structures of the brain and systems can integrate to restore normalization!
Michael C on Kenna:
Kenna C-Part 2:
Michael C on Kenna-Part 2:
Michael C on himself:
POTS-Headache-Fatigue-Dizziness-Gut Issues – Angelique on Arianna-Part 1:
POTS-Headache-Fatigue-Dizziness-Gut Issues – Angelique on Arianna-Part 2:
Angelique M on Son Carson-Tic Disorder and Memory Problem:
Conner L and Clint-Addiction:
Courtney C-Dystonia:
Doug S-Liver Diseases (Hepatic Encephalopathy) Part 1:
Edward R-Diabetic Neuropathy Part 1:
Edward R-Diabetic Neuropathy Part 2:
Ken N on Kenna & Lori-Dysautonomia-Alpha-synucleinopathy-Digestive Disorders:
Lori N-Alpha-synucleinopathy-Digestive Disorders:
Marcelle E-Rheumatoid Arthritis-Osteoarthritis:
Marty N-Deafness, Digestive Disorder:
Myra T-Headaches-Dysautonomia, Dystonia, Breathing Disorder, Shakiness, Digestive Disorders:
Rosa V & Husband-Thyroid Disorder, Hormonal Disorder, Digestive Disorder, Circulation Problems, Ascites:
Rosa V 3rd year-Thyroid Disorder, Hormonal Disorder, Digestive Disorder, Circulation Problems, Ascites:
Famotidine Tablets 20mg | Famotidine [Preferred Pharmaceuticals, Inc.] | BioPortfolio
Home » Topics » Food » Drugs » Famotidine Tablets 20mg | Famotidine [Preferred Pharmaceuticals, Inc.] | BioPortfolio
The active ingredient in famotidine tablets, USP is a histamine H-receptor antagonist. Famotidine is N'(aminosulfonyl)-3-[[[2-[(diaminomethylene)amino]-4-thiazolyl]methyl]thio]propanimidamide. The molecular formula of famotidine is CHNOS and its molecular weight is 337.45. Its structural formula is:
Famotidine is a competitive inhibitor of histamine Hreceptors. The primary clinically important pharmacologic activity of famotidine is inhibition of gastric secretion. Both the acid concentration and volume of gastric secretion are suppressed by famotidine, while changes in pepsin secretion are proportional to volume output.
Systemic effects of famotidine in the CNS, cardiovascular, respiratory or endocrine systems were not noted in clinical pharmacology studies. Also, no antiandrogenic effects were noted. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS.)Serum hormone levels, including prolactin, cortisol, thyroxine (T), and testosterone, were not altered after treatment with famotidine.
4. Short-term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Famotidine is indicated for short-term treatment of patients with symptoms of GERD (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS, Clinical Studies). Famotidine is also indicated for the short-term treatment of esophagitis due to GERD including erosive or ulcerative disease diagnosed by endoscopy (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS, Clinical Studies ).
5. Treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e. g., Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome, multiple endocrine adenomas ) (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS, Clinical Studies ).
Since CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency, longer intervals between doses or lower doses may need to be used in patients with moderate (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min ) or severe (creatinine clearance <10 mL/min) renal insufficiency to adjust for the longer elimination half-life of famotidine. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ).
Two pharmacokinetic studies in pediatric patients < 1 year of age (N=48) demonstrated that clearance of famotidine in patients >3 months to 1 year of age is similar to that seen in older pediatric patients (1-15 years of age) and adults. In contrast, pediatric patients 0-3 months of age had famotidine clearance values that were 2 to 4 fold less than those in older pediatric patients and adults. These studies also show that the mean bioavailability in pediatric patients <1 year of age after oral dosing is similar to older pediatric patients and adults. Pharmacodynamic data in pediatric patients 0-3 months of age suggest that the duration of acid suppression is longer compared with older pediatric patients, consistent with the longer famotidine half-life in pediatric patients 0-3 months of age. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics .)
In a double-blind, randomized, treatment-withdrawal study, 35 pediatric patients <1 year of age who were diagnosed as having gastroesophageal reflux disease were treated for up to 4 weeks with famotidine oral suspension (0.5 mg/kg/dose or 1 mg/kg/dose). Although an intravenous famotidine formulation was available, no patients were treated with intravenous famotidine in this study. Also, caregivers were instructed to provide conservative treatment including thickened feedings. Enrolled patients were diagnosed primarily by history of vomiting (spitting up) and irritability (fussiness). The famotidine dosing regimen was once daily for patients < 3 months of age and twice daily for patients ≥ 3 months of age. After 4 weeks of treatment, patients were randomly withdrawn from the treatment and followed an additional 4 weeks for adverse events and symptomatology. Patients were evaluated for vomiting (spitting up), irritability (fussiness) and global assessments of improvement. The study patients ranged in age at entry from 1.3 to 10.5 months (mean 5.6 ± 2.9 months), 57% were female, 91% were white and 6% were black. Most patients (27/35) continued into the treatment-withdrawal phase of the study. Two patients discontinued famotidine due to adverse events. Most patients improved during the initial treatment phase of the study. Results of the treatment-withdrawal phase were difficult to interpret because of small numbers of patients. Of the 35 patients enrolled in the study, agitation was observed in 5 patients on famotidine that resolved when the medication was discontinued; agitation was not observed in patients on placebo (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Pediatric Patients ).
The adverse reactions in overdose cases are similar to the adverse reactions encountered in normal clinical experience (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Oral doses of up to 640 mg/day have been given to adult patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions with no serious adverse effects. In the event of overdosage, treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. Unabsorbed material should be removed from the gastrointestinal tract, the patient should be monitored, and supportive therapy should be employed.
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)The recommended oral dosage for treatment of adult patients with symptoms of GERD is 20 mg b.i.d. for up to 6 weeks. The recommended oral dosage for the treatment of adult patients with esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations and accompanying symptoms due to GERD is 20 or 40 mg b.i.d. for up to 12 weeks (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS, Clinical Studies ).
Famotidine tablets, USP 20 mg are yellow, film coated, round shaped tablet with 'C' on one side and plain on other side.
ASCO Reading Room | Reshma Jagsi, MD, on Acute Toxicity From Breast Radiotherapy | MedPage Today
Reshma Jagsi, MD, on Acute Toxicity From Breast Radiotherapy
– Study identified patient characteristics linked with more post-treatment pain
by Jeff Minerd , Contributing Writer, MedPage Today	April 6, 2021
Understanding acute toxicities after whole-breast radiotherapy is important to inform patients, guide treatment decisions, and target supportive care. Researchers led by Reshma Jagsi, MD, of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, therefore conducted a prospective study of approximately 8,700 patients, surveyed within 7 days of radiation treatment.
Some of the key findings of their study, reported in the Journal of Clinical Oncology:
Compared with hypofractionation, conventional fractionation was associated with more breast pain (46% vs 29% of patients), severe fatigue (27% vs 19%), and other side effects
Regardless of the type of radiation therapy, certain characteristics were significantly associated with breast pain. These included younger age, higher body mass index, Black race, smoking, and larger breast volume (P<0.001 for all)
"Of particular concern, race-related differences in breast pain and bother existed despite controlling for multiple other factors, including age, body habitus, comorbidities, and treatment characteristics," Jagsi and co-authors wrote. "Additional research is needed to understand the factors that drive these and other differences detected in the current study, to target those that are potentially modifiable."
In the following interview, Jagsi, who is deputy chair of the Department of Radiation Oncology and director of the Center for Bioethics and Social Sciences in Medicine, elaborated on the team's findings as well as other issues raised by the study.
What fears or concerns do patients tend to have about radiation-related toxicity, and how can clinicians address these?
Jagsi: Prior work has shown that patients often have many concerns before radiation treatment, and many tell us that treatment was not as bad as they feared. Radiation is a scary concept -- in most of daily life, it's something we are taught to fear and avoid. That's why it is so important to have clear communication with patients about what risks are and are not expected from treatment.
What groups of patients might benefit from more supportive care during radiation therapy, according to your study?
Jagsi: We found that toxicity depended on the radiation treatment approach, including dose fractionation, boost treatment, and regional nodal irradiation, and also varied by body habitus, age, race, smoking behavior, and comorbidities. This can help us as radiation oncologists to identify higher-risk subgroups who might benefit from more intensive monitoring for the need for supportive care interventions.
Your study found that Black and other non-white patients reported significantly more breast pain after radiotherapy, despite controlling for multiple other factors. What are the potential reasons for this?
Jagsi: We observed higher rates of toxicity in certain groups, including patients who were Black or had other non-white race, even after controlling for racial differences in other risk factors. As discussed in the paper, whether the increased rates of toxicity reported in these patient groups reflect inherent biologic or socially constructed socioeconomic differences of the patients themselves or differences in provider and/or patient behavior merits additional attention.
Prior studies have suggested that there may be meaningful race-related differences in genes involved in inflammation, wound repair, and fibrotic response to radiation. However, we must acknowledge that race is a social construct, and it is also important to consider explanations relating to differences in resources or differences in patient or provider behaviors.
For example, other studies have shown providers to be less sensitive to the pain of Black patients and less likely to prescribe pain medication to them. One recent study revealed that false beliefs about biological differences between Blacks and whites (e.g., that the skin of Black people is thicker than that of white people) were endorsed not only by white laypersons but also by one half of a sample of white medical students and residents.
Finally, are you undertaking or planning any additional research in this area?
Jagsi: Yes, we presented a study in December at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium virtual meeting delving into whether some of this may reflect differences in provider recognition of symptoms.
That work suggests that not only are Black patients more likely to report severe symptoms, but that among all patients reporting severe symptoms, Black patients are less likely to have those symptoms recognized by their treating providers.
The study was supported by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan and the Blue Care Network of Michigan.
The Best Christmas Gift! |
by sanaesuzuki in Blog, Cancer, Sanae's Story 5703♥ 3 Likes Like
Starting with my fever, my body was showing the sign of cancer already in January, but I did not find out right away.
Since I had ovarian cancer in 1993 it was always in the back of my mind that it may come back.
But I was taking care of myself to the best of my ability through macrobiotics, which I have been practicing since I got ovarian cancer.
After 24 years of good health I believe that I would not have cancer anymore so I was very shocked, sad and felt very strained feelings when I was diagnosed with Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) Primary non-Hodgkin of Liver Stage Ⅳ (I got this cancer because of Hepatitis C from the blood transfusion I received after my car accident in 2001) in early spring.
I thought I was able to recover again with macrobiotics and holistic way, but I did not feel I had a good connection and support with my first oncologist. Cancer grew very quickly and I felt that I was dying.
I felt that I had to found a new oncologist and two of my friends helped me to find Dr. Mead very quickly.
When I went to see Dr. Mead for the first time on May 17th, she told me that 90% of my liver was taking over by cancer. She told me that I had only weeks to live.
There was no choice except taking chemotherapy in order for me to save my life so I did 6 rounds of chemotherapy as I was told.
It was not what I imagine to heal myself and it was one of hardest challenges I had to take in my life.
I kept my macrobiotics practice and I did my best during the treatments.
Writing helps my mind to be clear and also heals my soul so I have been writing my blogs about how I faced chemotherapy with side effects and to live. If you missed them, please find time to read.
Emotional Side Effects of Chemotherapy and How to Help Them
Adopting a Puppy Brought Cheerfulness to Cancer Household
After sixth rounds of chemotherapy I was hoping to receive good news before Thanksgiving, but the PET Scan shows in an activity of Lymphoma in my liver, so I had to do another biopsy in mid-December.
Most biopsies are not so painful, but a liver biopsy can cause pain and breathing difficulties after the procedure.
When I did biopsy early this year I had so much pain and was not able to breathe normally. I also could hardly move, so I stayed in bed for a week, and the pain lasted over three weeks.
Thankfully, the biopsy results were good, this was the best Christmas gift and to start New Year.
I need to monitor continuously and have to take PET Scan on February 1, 2018. But this was the best news this year!
I credit all of you for your continued support and well wishes.
Here are some photos that I took over the holidays.
Eric Santa Claus with his assistants: Mai Mai Lani (new kitty), Nalu and Happy.
Getting Christmas gifts: left to right – Happy, Oro, Leo, Nalu, Bubu and Lumi.
Tin Tin caught cold and coughing
P.S. After I heard good news Eric took me to see the sunset at the beach and we saw SpaceX Falcin9 as below with beautiful moon. I felt seeing it was a good sign for my recovery.
Orders/Prescriptive Authority | Texas Association of Nurse Anesthetists
Orders/Prescriptive Authority
Is a CRNA in Texas required to have prescriptive authority to order medications in the perioperative period?
A CRNA in Texas is not required to have prescriptive authority to order medications in the perioperative period. In Texas, a CRNA is required to have an order for anesthesia or anesthesia related services from a physician. The physician's order delegates the ordering of drugs and devices to the CRNA. The legal basis for this practice for CRNAs is established by the Board Rule 221.15 – 221.16. For physicians, the Texas Medical Board has established rule 193.13, which describes how physicians delegate the ordering of drugs and devices to nurse anesthetists.
The BON includes a note in the APRN application specifically addressing this:
"A note to CRNAs: The BON does not require that you have prescriptive authority to write orders for drugs and devices for the purpose of administering anesthesia or anesthesia-related services."
There is a legal distinction between ordering a medication for administration in a healthcare setting and prescribing a medication for patients to self-administer at home. When a CRNA writes an order for a dangerous drug or controlled substance in the recovery room, the CRNA is ordering the administration of the medication to the patient. Prescriptive authority is not required for CRNAs to order medications. In addition, CRNAs are not required to possess a Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) registration number when ordering controlled substances within Texas licensed hospitals or ambulatory surgery centers.
When a CRNA issues a prescription for a medication that is dispensed to the patient by a pharmacist, it is considered prescribing. For practices in which a CRNA needs prescriptive authority, the process begins with applying for prescriptive authority and obtaining a prescriptive authority number from the BON. The CRNA and delegating physician must also ensure that the requirements of the Texas Medical Board have been met, including the filing of a properly executed Prescriptive Authority Agreement.
May, 2013 | Berry for Us
Every pregnant mom will gain some weight. Take care of this issue after your pregnancy is complete. The following advice will help you stay healthy while you are pregnant. Pregnant women need to keep their skin protected prior to spending … Continue reading → Continue reading →
Posted in Health News, Health Tips, Healthy Foods, Uncategorized	| Tagged Doctor, Pregnancy, Pregnancy Tips, Pregnant	| Leave a comment
Diabetes encompasses a group of metabolic diseases. It is caused by an increased amount of sugar in the blood, which can be examined by a simple blood test. Type I diabetes occurs when the body fails to make insulin, Type … Continue reading →
Posted in Health News, Health Tips, Healthy Diet, Healthy Foods, Uncategorized	| Tagged Blood Pressure, Blood Sugar, Blood Sugar Level, Blood Sugar Levels, Blood Test, Gestational Diabetes	| Leave a comment
Having a whiter smile can not only make you feel better about yourself, but it can also project a more confident image to the rest of the world. This article will give you some important information that you need to … Continue reading →
Posted in Dental Health, Health News, Health Tips, Uncategorized	| Tagged Drinking Water, Teeth Whitening, Whitening Tips, Whiter Teeth	| Leave a comment
A hemorrhoid problem can feel like the worst possible ailment to deal with, short of something truly life-threatening. Hemorrhoids are irritating and embarrassing. Those afflicted with hemorrhoids need not resign themselves to suffering though. Here are some helpful hints … Continue reading →
Posted in Health News, Health Tips, Healthy Foods, Uncategorized	| Tagged Hemorrhoid, Hemorrhoids, Treatment Of Hemorrhoids	| Leave a comment
