HFP contributes to academic journal outlining opportunities to help children exposed to childhood trauma thrive. | Health Federation of Philadelphia
Special issue of Academic Pediatrics provides comprehensive research and policy agenda for addressing epidemic of adverse childhood experiences and promoting well-being
Philadelphia, PA – The Health Federation of Philadelphia's (HFP) senior director of special initiatives and consulting, Leslie Lieberman, and Mobilizing Action for Resilient Communities (MARC) program manager, Clare Reidy, recently contributed to the new special issue of Academic Pediatrics on adverse childhood experiences (ACEs).
Released in print today and available for free online, the journal highlights a comprehensive national research and policy action agenda to heal the epidemic of childhood trauma and advance much needed improvements in child well-being in the U.S.
HFP has been a leader, both locally and nationally, in advancing trauma-informed practice, including through its work with the Philadelphia ACE Task Force. Lieberman and co-authors Lee Pachter (lead), Sandra Bloom, and Joel Fein, wrote the article "Developing a Community-Wide Initiative to Address Childhood Adversity and Toxic Stress: A Case Study of The Philadelphia ACE Task Force." The article describes how the Philadelphia ACE Task Force, which is a community-based collaborative, successfully developed a research agenda, conducted research on ACEs in the urban environment and identified areas of focus in professional training, workforce development, community education and practical interventions.
The Philadelphia ACE Task Force is also part of HFP's MARC program, a national cross-sector learning collaborative focused on preventing ACEs and promoting resilience. Reidy and co-authors Jennifer Jones (lead), Margaret Hargreaves and Debra Rog contributed commentary about national initiatives, including MARC, in "Translating Brain Science Research into Community-Level Change." Since 2015, MARC has worked with 14 sites across the nation, all of which are engaged in building the movement for a just, healthy and resilient world. The MARC program, supported by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and The California Endowment, aims to show how investing in community networks that span different sectors can help build partnerships, collaboration, engagement, advocacy and policy change to mitigate and prevent ACEs.
Members of MARC's national advisory committee also take center stage throughout this publication which includes contributions from Wendy Ellis, Laura Porter, and Sandra Bloom.
This special issue is the result of a four-year effort to engage practitioners and advocates in child and family health across many sectors, and includes collaboratively identified priority goals, research areas and actions. Some of these priorities and policies include:
Translating the science of ACEs, cultivating the conditions for collaboration across sectors, fueling initiatives to support innovation and real-time learning, and rewarding outcomes that support stable and nurturing relationships centered around individual, family and community self-care, prevention and healing.
Capitalizing on short-term policy opportunities, such as prioritizing early screening, testing and prevention, as well as leveraging existing policy systems, practice transformation efforts, and research and data platforms.
Recent data show that nearly half of American children – 35 million kids – are at risk from exposure to ACEs. This special issue addresses the ACEs epidemic and highlights the new research that identifies opportunities to assess, address and improve resilience so children can thrive.
The special issue is available free online now. View "Child Well-Being and Adverse Childhood Experiences in the US" on the Academic Pediatrics website.
For More Information: For more information about HFP's role in this special issue of Academic Pediatrics please contact communication coordinator Andrea Miller.
Saint Francis Health System | Oklahoma | 2021 | Plan Profile - Research and Reports - Clarivate
Saint Francis Health System | Oklahoma | 2021 | Plan Profile
Health Plan Profiles provide enrollment data and analysis of major developments for key health plans. Topics include commercial plan design, Medicare, Medicaid, provider contracting, and pharmacy benefits. This profile is based on data as of January 2021. Sections most recently updated include: Market and Products, Commercial, HIX, Medicare, Provider Contracting, Disease management, Pharmacy Benefits, commercial, Medicare.
The usual dose is 25 milligrams 2 or 3 times a day, increasing to a total daily dose of 150 to 200 milligrams. Your doctor should monitor you carefully for side effects when you are taking this drug.
Indomethacin is used to reduce the pain, inflammation, and stiffness caused by many conditions, such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, ankylosing spondylitis, tendinitis, and bursitis.
Side effects cannot be anticipated. If any develop or change in intensity inform your doctor as soon as possible. Only your doctor can determine if it is safe for you to continue taking Indocin. Side effects may include:
This drug should be used with caution if you have kidney or liver disease, and it can cause liver inflammation in some people.
Do not take aspirin or any other anti-inflammatory medications while taking Indocin, unless your doctor tells you to do so.
Indocin may cause you to become drowsy or less alert; therefore, driving or operating dangerous machinery or participating in any hazardous activity that requires full mental alertness is not recommended. Indocin may also cause confusion and, rarely, psychosis, especially in older adults.
Drug Interaction :- If Indocin is taken with certain other drugs, the effects of either could be increased, decreased or altered. It is especially important to check with your doctor before combining Indocin with the following:
Any medication taken in excess can cause symptoms of overdose. If you suspect an overdose seek medical attention immediately. The symptoms of Indocin overdose may include:
A training module using scenarios and other methods to facilitate discussion about the key ethical issues that arise in doing research with human biological material.
A scenario that covers ethical issues that arise when a researcher wants to use human tissue originally collected for other research.
Researchers Publish First Pan-Cancer Genomic Analyses in Pediatric Patients | The Scientist Magazine®
WIKIMEDIA, CHRISTARAS AThousands of childhood tumors, comprising more than 20 different cancer types, have been characterized in two large-scale analyses published yesterday (February 28) in Nature. The findings from these pan-cancer studies—the first of their kind for pediatric patients—provide new insights into the genomic changes associated with childhood cancers, and into wide-ranging differences between pediatric and adult cancers.
"Previous studies of individual paediatric cancer types have revealed that they have fewer mutations and structural variants, on average, than do adult cancers," Pratiti Bandopadhayay and Matthew Meyerson, both cancer researchers at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute who were not involved in the studies, note in an accompanying News and Views article. "[B]ut the current pan-cancer analyses take this further, systematically highlighting several key differences between childhood and adult cancer genomes."
In one paper, Stefan Pfister of the Hopp-Children's Cancer Center at the NCT Heidelberg in Germany and his colleagues analyzed sequencing data for tumors from more than 900 children, adolescents, and young adults. The results, which pertain to 24 distinct types of cancer, reveal that mutation rates in childhood cancers are approximately 14 times lower than they are for adult cancers, and more than half of the cancers studied arose from a single genetic mutation. The study also found that only 30 percent of genetic drivers identified in childhood tumors overlapped with those identified in pan-cancer studies in adults.
In the other paper, Jinghui Zhang of St Jude Children's Research Hospital and her colleagues worked through just under 1,700 tumors, spanning six types of childhood leukemia and solid tumor cancers. Like Pfister's team, these researchers found that a low percentage—approximately 45 percent—of the genes mutated in childhood cancers were also mutated in adult cancers, and further reported transcription patterns for some of the mutated genes.
The studies mark a good starting point for the identification of new targets for cancer therapy, Dana-Farber pediatric oncologist Scott Armstrong, who was not involved in the work, tells Nature. For now, however, the clinical relevance of many of the identified mutations is unclear. Screens of pediatric patients, though informative, are "not going to be the end of the story," Armstrong adds. "They're going to be more the beginning of understanding what's going on."
In the meantime, "the results really bring home the message that pediatric cancer patients are not small adults," Zhang says in a statement. "[T]heir disease should not be treated as if that were the case."
You are here: Scientific Experts > USA > Beth Israel Medical Center > Simeon > Daphne Simeon
Alexithymia, absorption, and cognitive failures in depersonalization disorder: a comparison to posttraumatic stress disorder and healthy volunteers
J Nerv Ment Dis 197:492-8. 2009
J Clin Psychiatry 70:1358-64. 2009
Psychiatry Res 149:177-84. 2007
J Clin Psychiatry 66:231-7. 2005
Feeling unreal: a depersonalization disorder update of 117 cases
J Clin Psychiatry 64:990-7. 2003
Preliminary physiological evidence for impaired emotion regulation in depersonalization disorder
Kai Mosadi Monde
Psychology, Graduate Center of the City University of New York, New York, NY, USA
Psychiatry Res 209:235-8. 2013
Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York City, New York 10029, USA
J Nerv Ment Dis 195:983-8. 2007
Allison M R Lee
Víctor Viçens
Beth Sirroff
..In conclusion, the link between depersonalization and alexithymia appeared to be specific rather than broadly related to early trauma or to trauma-spectrum psychopathology...
..The goal of this study was to systematically compare a large sample of individuals with drug-initiated (D) versus non-drug-initiated (ND) chronic depersonalization...
..In conclusion, despite its small sample size this pilot study suggests that dissociative symptomatology may be a marker of heightened biological vulnerability to stress in BPD, and merits further study...
..We conducted a 1-year follow-up of an original mail survey of early reactions to the World Trade Center disaster...
..In this report, we systematically elucidate the phenomenology, precipitants, antecedents, comorbidity, and treatment history in such a series...
..Compared to controls, depersonalized participants were better able to suppress, but not enhance, emotions irrespective of valence (heart rate). Emotion regulation in depersonalization merits further study. ..
..Dissociation severity was significantly correlated with processing slowness and distractibility. We conclude that DPD is associated with cognitive disruptions in early perceptual and attentional processes...
CNS Spectr 8:755-62. 2003
..The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between dissociation and childhood trauma in BPD and to explore the relationships of dissociation and trauma to various personality features of BPD...
World J Biol Psychiatry 14:121-8. 2013
..Earlier studies suggested that topiramate may be effective in treating some impulse control disorders. We conducted the first randomized, controlled trial of topiramate in PG...
Examination of the pathological dissociation taxon in depersonalization disorder
Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, One Gustave L Levy Place, Box 1230, New York, N Y 10029, USA
J Nerv Ment Dis 191:738-44. 2003
..As previously, we continue to recommend a low taxon cutoff score (13) for the sensitive detection of depersonalization disorder. The inference that pathologic dissociation is a unitary and categorical entity is also discussed...
Psychiatry Box 1229, Mt Sinai School of Medicine, One Gustave L Levy Place, New York, NY 10029, USA
Am J Psychiatry 160:1702-5. 2003
..The World Trade Center disaster was of unprecedented magnitude and impact in U.S. history. The authors conducted a pilot survey investigating these effects...
Psychiatry Res 157:303-6. 2008
Psychiatry Res 121:93-7. 2003
..The findings are in concordance with the few reports on autonomic blunting in dissociation and merit further investigation...
Fluoxetine therapy in depersonalisation disorder: randomised controlled trial
Br J Psychiatry 185:31-6. 2004
..Despite anecdotal reports that serotonin reuptake inhibitors may improve depersonalisation, there is no proven efficacious treatment for depersonalisation disorder...
Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Box 1230, One Gustave L Levy Place, New York, NY 10029, USA
J Trauma Dissociation 8:11-24. 2007
..We conclude that the experience of temporal disintegration in DPD is not directly related to the core symptoms of depersonalization/derealization, but exists when the depersonalized experience involves more prominent absorption...
Am J Psychiatry 159:489-91. 2002
..The purpose of this study was to investigate temperamental, psychodynamic, and cognitive factors associated with dissociation...
Depersonalisation disorder: a contemporary overview
CNS Drugs 18:343-54. 2004
..Overall, novel therapeutic approaches are clearly needed to help individuals experiencing this refractory disorder...
Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci 6:556-63. 2011
..Although popularly dubbed the 'hormone of love', these data suggest a more circumspect answer to the question of who will benefit from OXT...
J Clin Psychiatry 70:70-82. 2009
..In this report, we aim to integrate the findings of prior studies by means of a systematic review followed by a meta-analysis...
CNS Spectr 12:439-43. 2007
..Divalproex extended-release (ER) is used widely in clinical practice, which leads to the question of its efficacy and tolerability in treating BPD...
CNS Spectr 13:138-44. 2008
..This open-label trial examines venlafaxine's efficacy in BDD and is the first known study of this serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor in BDD...
Seaver and New York Autism Center of Excellence, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA
Depress Anxiety 25:317-29. 2008
..There are both advantages and disadvantages in creating a new diagnostic category in DSM-V, and these are discussed in this article...
Division of Brain Stimulation and Therapeutic Modulation, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York 10032, USA
Psychiatry Res 186:138-40. 2011
..After 3weeks of right temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) rTMS, 6/12 patients responded. Five responders received 3 more weeks of right TPJ rTMS showing 68% DPD symptoms improvement. Right TPJ rTMS was safe and effective...
J Clin Psychopharmacol 25:267-70. 2005
..These findings are potentially promising in a highly treatment-refractory disorder for which no treatment guidelines exist and warrant a randomized controlled trial...
Department of Psychiatry, Beth Israel Medical Center, 317 East 17th Street, New York, NY 10003, USA
J Nerv Ment Dis 199:18-24. 2011
..Future research should further clarify the complex relationships between caregiver and patient symptoms and attitudes...
Employer Healthcare Solutions | Medical Clinic in NJ | Infinity Medical Services
Home > Employer Healthcare Solutions
Infinity Medical Services works with employers and workforce registries to promote the health and wellness of employees. We have extensive experience working in the field of occupational medicine with a direct focus on critical aspects such as:
Workplace and Environmental Safety for Employees
Periodic Health Exams (to maintain fit to work status)
For employers, we help assemble a workforce that is not only professionally competent but also physically and healthily capable of carrying out their functions. Our health care programs promote a mutual benefit for the employer as well as the employee:
Employers can continue benefiting from the productive personnel with healthy workplace practices and periodic health screening as a way of preventive health care
Employees are better aware of their health conditions, encouraging them to preserve their health and wellness so that they can maximize their earning potential from the company.
"We have used Infinity Medical Services for over 10 years, they are professional, knowledgeable and very prompt with our student's DOT Physicals and Drug Screens. They accommodate our every need as a company. Their staff makes the process smooth and easy. We are grateful for the relationship we have with Infinity Medical Services and we highly recommend them to anyone seeking DOT compliance. "
Artrozei articulației deformarea genunchiului
Ortho picior spuri
Pentru compoziția pentru vitamine articulații câinilor
Cervicală dureri osteocondroză amețeli
Durerea picioarelor bicicletă după
Strigand articulatiile faca toate
Pentru tratamentul remedii articulației folic artrozei
Excreția fluidului în articulația genunchiului
Exemplu osteocondrozei spinale diagnostic
Poate raza care văzută
Umărului articulațiilor osteocondroza vindeci
Durerile articulațiile faci picioarelor
Întinderea articulațiilor exerciții tendoanelor pentru
Șolduri genunchi rănit picioarele
Acute gout is a painful condition that often affects only one joint. Some other types of arthritis can. Pain typically comes on rapidly, reaching maximal intensity in less than twelve hours.
Gout is a disease that results when crystals of uric acid form in tissues of the body. It occurs when uric acid builds up in blood and causes inflammation in the joints. Gout is a form of arthritis characterized. Gout is a very painful medical condition. Gout is characterized by an overload of uric acid in the body and recurring attacks of joint inflammation ( arthritis). Try these simple tips, which include bed rest, applying an ice pack, and taking the right medicine, to manage. Even if gout has been diagnosed in the past, be cautious with glucocorticoid joint injection if the current clinical picture is uncertain since a septic joint can coexist with gout and a steroid injection would then worsen the patient' s clinical status. The attacks happen most often in the joint at the base of the big toe. The joint at the base of the big toe is affected in about half of cases. Nov 25, · Refractory gout attack is an uncommon problem, since gout flares are usually self- limited.
The annual incidence of gout in men in most studies is in the range of one to three per 1, 000, but the incidence is much lower in women. It is a red, tender, hot, swollen joint. Gout 101: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments. Gout is predominantly a disease of middle- aged men, but there is a gradually increasing prevalence in both men and women in older age groups.
Gout is a form of inflammatory arthritis characterized by recurrent attacks of a red, tender, hot, and swollen joint. This clinical condition is characterized by serum uric acid higher than 6 mg/ Dl or continuous manifestations of recurrent flares, chronic arthritis, and increased tophi. Gout național de conducere. Gout is a type of arthritis. 10 Steps to Ease a Gout Attack Pain management is a crucial part of living with gout. The true cause of gout was determined: having high levels of uric acid in your blood, known as hyperuricemia; To deal with these situations, pay close attention to your uric acid levels, because if you let these rise, your risk of gout attacks or flare- ups increases as well. Gout is a common form of arthritis characterised by symptoms including a sharp burning pain in the toe, foot or leg and is primarily caused by high levels of uric acid in the blood. Chronic gout is the repeated episodes of pain and inflammation. Gout is strongly linked to obesity, hypertension ( high blood pressure), hyperlipidemia ( high cholesterol and triglycerides), and diabetes.
Gout is a form of arthritis characterized by severe joint inflammation of one or more joints which results from the deposition of uric acid crystals.
It has been over two years since the COVID-19 pandemic began. In many ways, most people are beginning their lives again and return to our "new normal".
Due to the fact that COVID vaccines are readily available, lots of people are no longer hesitant to gather with family and friends, attend social events or participate in activities. However, many parents still have lots of questions about COVID-19 vaccines and children.
We recently polled our Orlando Mom audience and found that many of the questions that were submitted actually overlapped among local families. We are so grateful to have these frequently asked questions answered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Why should my child get a COVID vaccine if children are already at lower risk for severe illness from COVID?
• Most children who get COVID recover without serious effects, but "low risk" is not the same as "no risk." There is no way to predict how COVID might affect your child, and thousands of children, including healthy children with no other medical issues, have wound up in the hospital from COVID. In fact, during the Omicron surge, 5,000 children were hospitalized with COVID in one week.
• We give children vaccines to prevent many diseases, even though the risk of infection is low, for exactly the same reason both the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend COVID vaccines for children.
• Vaccines prevent disease and can keep your child from getting seriously ill even if they get COVID. Why take the risk that your child might be one of the unlucky ones who gets very sick and needs to go to the emergency room or be hospitalized, when you have a safe and effective vaccine that can prevent those events?
How long do COVID vaccines offer protection to kids?
• Like all vaccines in the United States, COVID vaccines are carefully monitored in both adults and children. Because of this monitoring, we know that in adults, the vaccine's effectiveness begins to wane at around 6 months after vaccination. This is is why CDC recommends boosters for everyone 12 and older 5 months after your second dose of a Pfizer or Moderna vaccine.
• However, we don't yet have data on how long the vaccines are effective in children under 12. Because children's immune systems are still developing when they're under 12, they may not need a booster as soon as older kids and adults do. We will just have to wait and see what the monitoring shows.
• Before the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and CDC recommend boosters, they carefully review effectiveness data and other research, and get recommendations from independent advisory committees made up of doctors, including pediatricians.
Do you have any advice for parents who have concerns about potential long term side effects of COVID vaccines in children?
• The best thing you can do is to educate yourself on vaccine safety and how vaccines work. We have been monitoring and studying vaccines for decades and we know that their only job is to trigger your immune system so that you can fight disease if you're exposed to a particular virus or bacteria in the future. None of the COVID vaccines in use or in development in the United States contain a live COVID virus, so they cannot give you the disease.
• Once a COVID vaccine triggers your immune system, all of the vaccine's ingredients are broken down and eliminated from your body in a few days so they can't cause long-term health effects months or years later. We know that side effects of vaccines appear within 6 to 8 weeks of vaccination and vaccines are monitored over the lifetime of people who take them. This monitoring has not uncovered any evidence that COVID vaccines cause long-term health problems.
• There is no evidence that vaccines, including COVID vaccines, cause long-term health effects like cancer or infertility.
If my kid already had COVID, why do they need to be vaccinated? Doesn't getting COVID give kids natural immunity that works just as well as a vaccine?
• Having COVID gives your child some immunity, but it doesn't mean that your child can't get COVID again. Also, we can't predict how COVID will affect your child, and we know the risks from COVID are much worse than any possible risk from side effects of a vaccine.
• The best way to protect your child and others is not to roll the dice on what will happen if they get infected. Vaccines can help protect your child from getting seriously sick or needing hospital care, even if they do get COVID.
[Evaluation of calf muscle pump function after subfascial endoscopic perforator dissection] | Read by QxMD
[Evaluation of calf muscle pump function after subfascial endoscopic perforator dissection]
Gábor Menyhei, Péter Hardi, Mária Szabó, Lajos Kollár
Orvosi Hetilap 2005 August 28, 146 (35): 1827-31
16187542
INTRODUCTION: Perforating vein incompetence can be demonstrated in many cases of chronic venous insufficiency. Subfascial endoscopic perforating vein surgery has become an accepted method in the treatment of perforator insufficiency over the past decade. However, what the hemodynamic consequences of perforating vein interruption are, is not clear.
OBJECTIVE: To analyse the results of endoscopic perforating vein surgery performed in the authors' department over the past four years. To compare the outcome of the operation in patients with deep venous reflux with those who only had superficial and perforating vein reflux. To analyze the changes in calf muscle pump function with photoplethysmography carried out before and after the operation.
METHODS: Subfascial endoscopic perforator dissection was performed on 53 patients who suffered from severe chronic venous insufficiency mainly with active ulcer. With the follow-up of 51 patients, a prospective clinical trial was carried out which consisted of physical examination and Doppler ultrasound, six weeks after the operation and every three months thereafter. The data were analyzed with standard statistical methods.
RESULTS: Clinical symptoms improved and proved to be durable in 33 (64%) of 51 patients during the follow-up. The healing rate of 40 patients with venous ulcer was 82% after the operation. 62% of the patients were ulcer-free on a long term. While of the 33 patients with deep venous reflux 17 (52%) showed durable improvement, of the 18 patient who had only superficial and perforating vein insufficiency only 2 patients did not experience improvement. Average venous refilling time of the 33 patients who underwent photoplethysmography increased from 12.5 sec to 14.6 sec after endoscopic perforating vein surgery although significant improvement was demonstrated only on patients who had only superficial venous reflux together with perforating vein insufficiency.
CONCLUSIONS: Subfascial endoscopic perforating vein surgery proved to be a successful alternative in the authors' clinical trial in treating patients with severe chronic venous insufficiency. Mid-term evaluation showed excellent results with patients without deep venous reflux and acceptably good outcome with patients with deep venous insufficiency. Improvement of clinical symptoms after endoscopic perforator dissection was followed by significant improvement of calf muscle pump function only on patients without deep venous reflux.
Improvement in deep vein haemodynamics following surgery for varicose veins. P Ciostek, J Michalak, W Noszczyk European Journal of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery 2004, 28 (5): 473-8
Endoscopic perforator vein division with ablation of superficial reflux improves venous hemodynamics. J M Rhodes, P Gloviczki, L Canton, T V Heaser, T W Rooke Journal of Vascular Surgery 1998, 28 (5): 839-47
Atlantoaxial Instability: What's Next? | Congenital Defects | JAMA Pediatrics | JAMA Network
Atlantoaxial Instability: What's Next?
William I. Cohen, MD
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 1998;152(2):119-122. doi:10.1001/archpedi.152.2.119
LIGAMENTOUS LAXITY and craniocervical abnormalities are well-known features of Down syndrome (DS).1 The excess mobility of the articulation of the atlas (C1) and axis (C2) has been termed atlantoaxial instability (AAI). It is estimated that 2% of individuals with DS have symptoms of spinal cord compression because of this instability. Such individuals usually have neurologic signs and symptoms ranging from neck pain, torticollis, change in gait, change in bowel or bladder control, hyperreflexia, and presence of Babinski sign to quadriparesis and quadriplegia. They require urgent evaluation and management (which may include cervical spine fixation). On the other hand, approximately 13% of individuals with DS have evidence of excess movement of the joint between C1 and C2 but are asymptomatic. The concern that these individuals might be at risk of spinal cord injury has had widespread ramifications.
Pediatrics Radiology Sports Medicine Neurology Spinal Cord Disorders Congenital Defects Trauma and Injury
Cohen WI. Atlantoaxial Instability: What's Next? Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 1998;152(2):119–122. doi:10.1001/archpedi.152.2.119
