What Is Seasonal Affective Disorder (Sad) and How Is It Treated? | HubPages
Published January 2015, Updated June 2019
The information in this article is for reference only and is not to be used as medical advice. Please consult your medical provider for any treatment and diagnosis.
Seasonal Affective Disorder is treatable. | Source
Change Of Season Blues?
Have you ever experienced a really bad case of "The Blues?"
You know ... that sad feeling that you can't quite put your finger on ... not exactly "mourning-the-loss-of-a-loved-one kind of sad" nor "the kind of sad that borders on being suicidal" but rather "a winter doldrums, down in the dumps-type of depression."
You might have what is called Seasonal Affective Disorder - SAD. It usually occurs in wintertime when more time is spent indoors away from friends and it is a real medical condition.
People with Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) usually dread the arrival of the fall and winter season each year which is why it is often called winter-onset SAD, winter blues or winter depression.
People who experience Seasonal Affective Disorder report that their symptoms start around the same time each year and that it literally takes away all their energy, makes them moody and depressed, and causes them to hibernate. They literally pull in the carpet until spring and then return to society once spring has sprung.
What if you are one of those people who lives in a place that is a year-round sunshine paradise, where harsh winter weather never rears its ugly head?
Are those people so lucky that they never experience Seasonal Affective Disorder?
Though it is mostly associated with winter, it can affect anyone during any season of the year in any part of the world.
Charting Origin & Progression of SAD
Charting SAD From European Journal of Psychiatry | Source
Possible Reasons Why People Don't Look For Help
Why people don't seek help. | Source
Seasonal Affective Disorder is a mood disorder coming under the psychological heading of Clinical Depression, some of which encompasses but is not limited to:
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PDD or PMDD)
In the extreme, periods of depression alternating with episodes of excessive energy and activity can meet the criteria for Bipolar Disorder, previously called manic-depressive illness, although it is the rare case when SAD would progress that far.
However, if the patient already has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, then it is imperative that SAD therapy be considered as part of the treatment plan.
The research I've read says that the farther away you live from the equator, the more likely you are to experience SAD because of the shorter days and the lack of sunlight.
But lack of sunlight isn't the only factor disrupting the lives of people with Seasonal Affective Disorder.
With SAD, sleep patterns can be noticeably altered which affects moods. It also causes a drop in serotonin and melatonin levels which can lead to depression and lack of energy. It ravishes your appetite (sometimes for the better, but usually for the worse) and saps your energy.
Disruptive sleep patterns aren't associated with just the change in seasons. People who work shift work or change their work shifts frequently interrupts the circadian rhythm.
The SAD sufferer normally wants little or nothing to do with social interaction outside of the home (their safe environment). People coming into the home can be met by such a depressed person that they do not stay very long.
These episodes of depression, which last about four to five months, include fatigue, sleeplessness and a tendency to overeat (particularly carbohydrates). Conversely, there is a small percentage of people with SAD who have a tendency to under-eat and they sleep for long periods of time.
Depression linked to Seasonal Affective Disorder is not gender-specific, although women have twice the rate of depression than men and it varies in degrees with the person. The elderly, adolescents, women who have given birth or are going through menopause and those with chronic medical conditions can be predisposed to Seasonal Affective Disorder.
According to a 2011 New York Times article, researchers studied groups of parents, siblings and especially twins and found a strong genetic link where depression runs in families.
Second and third generation relatives were likely to experience a deeper depression if someone in the first generation has been diagnosed with it.
Many prescription drugs, such as estrogen, progesterone, contraceptives, gastrointestinal drugs, blood pressure, steroids, and acne medications have depression as a side effect. Factor in some of the other symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder and a minor depression could easily become a major depression.
Sitting 18 to 24 inches from a light box for 30 minutes twice a day can help SAD sufferers. Do not look at the light but read or some other activity as long as light enters the eye. | Source
If a physician suspects Seasonal Affective Disorder, to determine the severity he should conduct a full evaluation using the current DSM-IV depression criteria, the Beck Depression Inventory and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression.
It is equally important to determine if the depression the patient is experiencing is alcohol or medication-related or if it is cyclical, that is, happening at a certain time of the year or when a certain event occurs in their lives such as a recent change of residence, chemotherapy treatments or other recurring treatments, divorce, separation anxiety of a parent, child, or spouse, husband left on a work trip, etc..
The patient should always be in control of their treatment options. and get a second or even a third opinion to be comfortable with their treatment plan. The treatment for Seasonal Affective Disorder should vary with each patient's preference.
It is okay if the patient decides not to have any treatment. Considering the side effects of certain medications, sometimes no treatment is the best treatment.
If the patient agrees with a physician to treat their condition with medication, he will usually suggest an anti-depressant medication to help combat the highs and lows of mood swings and depression. This is the time to talk to him about alternative medicine, as discussed below.
Cognitive behavior therapy with a licensed psychologist is a good option for patients who are comfortable talking with a therapist.
Some patients suffering with SAD say that using light therapy for 30 minutes per day for the duration of the winter season has provided good results. However, some patients report that when they discontinued light therapy after a week or two, their symptoms returned in intensity.
Possible but mild side effects using light therapy: headache, nausea, eye strain, blurred vision, and agitation.
Light therapy units range in price from $150 to as much as $600 with an average of $250. Medical insurance usually doesn't reimburse this type of therapy since it is not recognized as medically necessary. It never hurts to ask the doctor for a letter of medical necessity to see if the insurance company will pay for the unit. You'll never know unless you try.
Some patients use negative air ionizers, trying to trick the brain into thinking it is summertime. I have no idea whether that works or not, but I do know that if it is 10 degrees outside, nothing will convince my brain that it is summertime.
A preset timer turns on a light fixture before a patient awakens. The intensity of the light gradually increases over 90 minutes. Studies are optimistic.
The retina is sensitive to blue light and this affects circadian rhythm. Studies are still being conducted whether blue light has the same benefit as white light.
Researchers tested Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) and Light Therapy with 23 SAD patients for 90-minute twice a week for 6 weeks. Results: combined light therapy and SAD-tailored CBT reduced depressive symptoms with good remission rates. CBT, with or without light therapy, showed a significant reduction in depression recurrences during the following winter compared with light therapy alone. Patients in the CBT group w/no light therapy had asignificant decrease in depression severity at 1 year.
Light (and Sunlight) Therapy For Seasonal Affective Disorder
While alternative medicine shouldn't be your first "go-to" place, there are some remedies that could significantly help you in your treatment plan.
Certain supplements and suggestions listed in this article may interfere with the function and effectiveness of certain anti-depressants, chemotherapy drugs, birth control pills, diet pills, blood pressure medications and certain changes in diet plans.
Before you take anyone's advice or start using home remedies (even if it is only vitamins or supplements), consult your medical provider to ask which supplements and over-the-counter remedies might affect any medications you are presently taking.
Tips For Seasonal Affective Disorder (Click to enlarge)
Always consult your medical provider before beginning any new treatment. | Source
The Society of Light Treatment and Biological Rhythms
© 2015 awordlover
SAD seems to be a hot topic in the news as of late, with winter temperatures and bad weather hitting the Northeast and Midwest recently. I thought it was more like cabin fever, so I didn't really know much about it until I picked it out of awordlover's stored articles and started reading. I thought this was a good time to post it.
I can understand how emerging in the dark after a long day's work hours might affect one's moods, in addition to cold weather. Thank you for your comment.
Although not depressed myself, I can certainly understand how the seasons can affect one's moods in this way. I lived in Maine for a period when I was younger. During the fall/winter, I went to work in the dark and came home in the dark. Then there was the bitter cold adding to it.
Yes, as it says in awordlover's article, SAD can happen in the summer months (or any other time of the year), but it is more prevalent in winter months. Some people only experience it at Christmas Time.
Although there are many other articles on the internet about SAD, this is simply awordlover's spin on the topic. Thank you for reading and for your comment.
For those having a continuing interest in this subject, do a Hub search as there are other Hub articles in addition to those showing here.
This was a fine article, and it is incumbent on all of us to be aware of SAD during the depth of winter each year.
Interestingly, SAD can also happen in the summer, according to another Hub I recall reading on HP.
Jodah, I'm sorry to read about your wife. Some of the tips in this article might be helpful to lift her mood. Thanks for reading.
DDE, thank you for reading and commenting.
Interesting and very helpful. You certainly did y thorough research on this unique topic.
This was very interesting, I think my wife has S.A.D, but she already has sleep apnea, chronic fatigue and depression so it is probably all linked. She feels extra lethargic during long periods of cloudy and rainy weather. We get most of our rain in Summer here though. Thanks for this hub for making me aware of this.
7 Reasons Why your Belly is Bloated - Kytes Store
7 Reasons Why your Belly is Bloated
Blogs / By kytes Store
Reasons Why your Belly is Bloated
There are some people who swallow the food too fast, instead of chewing it. You need to know that that causes your belly to bloat. You must shew the food into your mouth until it breaks down to small pieces before you swallow it if you want to avoid this problem. In addition of that, slow eating reduces your food intake, and that can be beneficial if you want to lose some weight.
This kind of disorder brings abdominal pain difficulty and bloating in absorbing nutrients and it affects the digestive tract. Because of the bacteria overgrowth, the intestines and the whole digestive system can be pretty sensitive and as a result of that inflammation can occur.
Using certain types of drugs, such as contraceptives and other hormonal pills can result with abdominal bloating. For instance, the pills that contain estrogen can slow down the digestive system, causing constipation and gases. The same result can be expected by the pain medications as well as antibiotics. While the antibiotics fight the bad bacteria they also hamper the good bacteria. This in turn can affect our intestinal health, causing flatulence and gases.
Long term continuous sitting will cause many problems in the human body. One of these problems is bloated stomach. Namely, while we sit the organism slows down and same does the digestion and the metabolism. You need to consider taking a walk every hour just to restart your body.
We recommend you to listen to your body and consult your doctor whenever you feel that something is wrong. You can also contact us for advice on your health for free.
Looking on the upside really DOES cut the risk of heart attack | Daily Mail Online
Scientists at Northwestern and Harvard School of Public Health examined all existing evidence linking psychological well-being to cardiovascular health
They found mental outlook is 'consistently related' to heart disease
Published: 14:14 EST, 10 September 2018 | Updated: 17:57 EST, 10 September 2018
Looking on the bright side of life cuts the risk of suffering a heart attack or stroke, a scientific review has found.
Being optimistic has a direct impact on cardiovascular health - reducing stress hormones, pulse rate and blood pressure, experts found.
And people with a positive outlook eat better, do more exercise and are less likely to smoke and drink, their study showed.
Scientists at Northwestern University in Chicago and Harvard School of Public Health in Boston examined all existing evidence linking psychological well-being to cardiovascular health.
The researchers, whose work is published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, found mental outlook is 'consistently related' to heart disease.
Mental outlook is 'consistently related' to heart disease, a new scientific review found
They cited one study in which the 25 per cent of people with the highest optimism had a 38 per cent reduced risk of dying of heart disease.
Other papers have linked the feeling of having a 'higher purpose' in life with lower odds of having a stroke.
The researchers said doctors should consider using counselling or relaxation strategies such as yoga or tai chi to improve their patients' mental health.
Lead author Professor Darwin Labarthe, of Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, said: 'We addressed how social environment, psychological well-being and the effectiveness of intervention strategies can help strengthen a patient's outlook.
'We focused on whether psychological well-being can be consistently related with a reduced risk of heart disease.'
He added: 'Optimists persevere by using problem-solving and planning strategies to manage stressors.
'If others are faced with factors out of their control, they begin to shift their goals and use potentially maladaptive coping strategies, which would ultimately result in raising inflammation levels and less favorable overall heart health.'
The research team found optimistic people less likely to smoke - and if they already smoke they are better at quitting.
How obesity damages the brain: Study finds excess weight... Commonly-prescribed antidepressant Prozac may be driving the...
High levels of psychological well-being are also associated with regular physical activity.
Optimistic patients sustained healthier diets by consuming more fruits and vegetables, and less processed meats and sweets, leading patients to maintain a healthier weight.
Other studies have found similar results for cancer, stroke, respiratory disease and infection.
Scientists suspect this may be because someone's general mood alters the levels of harmful and beneficial hormones in their body.
Studies have also found people who are less stressed have lower cholesterol levels, are less prone to inflammation, have a better immune response and higher levels of antioxidants in the blood.
Having a strong support network also gives patients confidence and makes them more likely to act on medical advice, the scientists said.
Professor Labarthe said: 'It may seem challenging to help patients modify psychological well-being in the face of a new medical diagnosis, but these events can represent a "teachable moment".
'Just having patient-centred discussions surrounding sources of psychological well-being and information about specific activities to promote well-being are a small, but meaningful, part of a patient's care.'
Download full report here (2.09 MB)
The International Comparison of Product Certification and Verification Methods for Appliances study endeavors to:
Review international best practices for product certification and verification as they relate to the enforcement of appliance standards and labeling programs in the U.S., E.U., Australia, Japan, Canada, and China; and,
Provide recommendations to the Chinese government for the implementation of improved certification processes related to their mandatory standards and labeling program so as to increase compliance rates and energy savings potential.
Enforcement of appliance standards and consumer trust in appliance labeling are important foundations in the development of a more energy efficient economy. Product certification and verification increase compliance rates, which in turn increase both energy savings and consumer trust.
Practices for product certification and verification vary across the world, with some programs focusing solely on either certification or verification (such as in Australia and Canada) and other programs focusing on both (such as ENERGY STAR in the U.S.). Accreditation practices for testing laboratories and certification bodies also vary, with some appliance standards and labeling programs building databases to house all information on products and compliance.
The number of products covered by China's mandatory standards program and labeling program has rapidly increased in recent years up to 44 products and 23 products, respectively. The Chinese government is currently seeking to improve the compliance rate for these products without reinventing its current organizational structure.
Based on a review of international practices in product certification and verification, the authors of this study offer the following recommendations to the Chinese government in the development of a more robust MV&E system:
Organize certification bodies.
Mandate certification process.
Allow witness testing.
Adapt from international standards.
Standardize verification testing.
Introducing third party product certification and verification for the Chinese government's mandatory standards and labeling programs has the potential to significantly improve compliance levels without heavy administrative burden.
Quit Smoking And Improve Health Fast A New Study Contradicts The Widely Held Belief That The Health Damage From Smoking Is Irreversible. - tribunedigital-sunsentinel
Quit Smoking And Improve Health Fast A New Study Contradicts The Widely Held Belief That The Health Damage From Smoking Is Irreversible.
September 24, 1985|By Robert Lee Hotz, Cox News Service
ATLANTA — The last thing ex-smokers usually feel is better. In the beginning, they experience instead increased irascibility, an unforgiving sense of smell and a slowly spreading waistline.
New research at several centers, however, shows that quitting not only spares smokers well-documented harmful effects of tobacco -- elevated risk of heart disease and lung cancer -- but may improve health almost immediately, even in those who have smoked heavily for 50 years or more.
A team of Houston medical researchers says elderly smokers who quit can reduce their risk of stroke and delay the onset of several forms of senility, including Alzheimer`s disease. The scientists say the amount of blood and oxygen reaching the brain increased dramatically in the 12 months after elderly smokers quit.
The study, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, sharply contradicts the widely held belief that the health damage from smoking is irreversible and that quitting is a pointless exercise in self-denial.
A North Carolina research group has found that younger women who quit smoking can increase their fertility and their chances of having a healthy child. And University of California researchers say that if they can persuade their husbands to stop smoking, younger women can significantly reduce their own risk of ``silent`` heart attacks.
Medical authorities say there also are more subtle health benefits -- steadier heartbeat; sharper, brighter color vision; warmer fingers and toes; and fewer colds -- that result from quitting.
With the reawakening of taste buds, food becomes more savory. Medical researchers say that it is that sharpened appetite that typically causes new non-smokers to gain weight. They just as typically shed it by the end of their first year without tobacco.
Wrinkles, especially crow`s feet around the eyes and creases at the corners of the mouth, become less pronounced.
``When you quit, you are doing something to retard the skin`s aging, like staying out of the sun,`` says Dr. Marilynne McKay, acting chairman of dermatology at the Emory University School of Medicine.
Noticeable or not, the side effects of quitting arise from the complex interaction of smoke and the body`s internal chemistry. Many of the effects are more than cosmetic.
``When people stop smoking, they stop inhaling the 6,000-plus chemicals in cigarette smoke,`` says Dr. Jesse L. Steinfeld, the former U.S. surgeon general who now heads the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta.
``People stop hacking in the morning and coughing up sputum. Irritation and spasms in the lungs stop. Carbon monoxide in the bloodstream quickly drops from about 7 percent to 9 percent to about 1/2 percent.
``Smoking also causes blood clots to form more rapidly. That stops fairly quickly. The risk of heart attack begins to decrease very rapidly,`` he says.
Investigators from Boston University and the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine say that among women who smoke, the risk of heart attacks returns to near normal within 12 months after their last cigarette.
The risk of lung cancer declines, too, but for up to 12 years may still be double that of someone who never smoked. Continued smoking, however, makes the risk 20 times greater.
New research also shows that the total number of cigarettes smoked in a lifetime is closely related to the severity of coronary artery disease.
``We know that coming off cigarette smoking can improve circulation almost immediately,`` says Dr. Garnett J. Geisling Jr., a pulmonologist on the board of the American Lung Association of Georgia and president-elect of the Georgia Thoracic Society.
``Cigarette smoking also causes recurrent acute bronchitis and it prolongs bronchitis and pneumonia. Even in a chronic patient, if you stop smoking, the recurrent episodes can cut back,`` he says.
In the hospital, a patient`s smoking can reduce his chances of surviving surgery. At the Medical College of Georgia, for example, several surgeons refuse to perform bypass surgery on patients who still smoke.
``There is also very clear evidence that ulcers will heal faster if a smoker quits,`` says Dr. John Galambos, director of the division of digestive disease at Emory`s School of Medicine. Tobacco smoke stimulates the production of stomach acid that causes ulcers.
In addition to the benefits of quitting, recent research has further detailed the hazards of continuing to smoke, including:
``Fetal tobacco syndrome,`` characterized by low-weight infants born to smoking mothers -- a condition researchers believe is caused by a reduction in the flow of oxygen and the blood supply to the developing embryo.
Nicotine addiction in the infants of smoking mothers. Studies also indicate a definite increase in early spontaneous abortions among smoking mothers.
Reductions in fertility by more than one-third among women who smoke, with the greatest loss of fertility among heavy smokers.
Although 29 percent of American adults still smoke, smoking per capita continues to drop among all population groups, but not as quickly among women, especially young white women. This year for the first time more women are expected to die from lung cancer than from any other form of cancer -- an estimated 38,600 deaths, compared with the 38,400 deaths predicted for breast cancer.
``I don`t know if I`d say that when you quit you`ll feel better,`` Steinfeld says. ``It is an addiction. People may temporarily feel a lot worse.
``The positive thing is not that they feel better right away but that they will live a better, healthier and longer life.``
To create a stimulating educational environment that fosters innovation and empowers students with the highest quality of rich and commanding knowledge on fundamentals of Homoeopathy. Our vision is to develop a research oriented top ranked Homoeopathic School which is nationally accredited, globally recognized and universally admired.
At the end of undergraduate programme, each homoeopathic medical student shall endeavor to be able to,
Learn every aspect of national policies on health and devote himself or herself to its practical implementations.
Achieve competence in practice of holistic medicine encompassing promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative aspects of common diseases.
Develop scientific temper, acquire educational experience for proficiency in profession and promote healthy livings.
Become exemplary citizen by observation of medical ethics and fulfilling social and professional obligations, so as to respond to national aspirations.
Be able to appreciate the socio psychological, cultural, economic and environmental factors affecting health and develop human attitude towards the patients in discharging one's professional responsibilities.
Posses the attitude for continued self learning and to seek further expertise or to pursue research in any chosen area of medicine.
Be familiar with the basic factors which are essential for the implementation of the National Health programmes including practical aspects of (a) Family welfare and Maternal and Child Health (MCH) (b) Sanitation and water supply (c) Prevention and control of communicable and non communicable diseases. (d) Immunization (e) Health Education.
Be able to identify community health problems and learn to work to resolve these by designing, instituting corrective steps and evaluating outcome of such measures.
Have personal characteristics and attitudes required for professional life such as personal integrity, sense of responsibility and dependability and ability to relate to or show concern for other individuals. All efforts are made to equip the medical graduate to acquire necessary skills.
Announcing a New Benefit for PeerJ Peer Reviewers – PeerJ Blog
by PeerJ Staff · Published May 13, 2013 · Updated May 24, 2018
Here at PeerJ we know that the system of pre-publication peer review in operation in today's scholarly journal environment would not be possible without the selfless efforts of the peer reviewers themselves. At the vast majority of publishers, peer reviewers gain zero recognition and zero reward for their invaluable work, and so it really isn't surprising that journals find it hard to persuade reviewers to devote many hours of work to a review with no hope of being credited or rewarded for that work.
Fortunately, we believe that PeerJ provides some powerful solutions to this problem. First of all, we have a solution to the problem of 'lack of credit' via our system of Open Peer Review. Specifically, reviewers are given the option of making their name known to the authors, and if they do so (and if the authors choose to publish the review history on the final article), then the work that the reviewer submitted is identified with their name and they gain public credit for having performed the review. Even if the authors chose not to publish their review history then reviewers who provided their name in the process still accrue 'contribution points' for their review. We believe that this solution allows reviewers to be appropriately acknowledged for their work and (because most authors choose to publish their review history) in most cases the text that the reviewer contributed is also made public and not 'lost' to the world. Examples of reviewers being credited in this way include Kevin Black who peer-reviewed "Whose name is it anyway? Varying patterns of possessive usage in eponymous neurodegenerative diseases" and Ken Takahashi who peer-reviewed "A non-cardiomyocyte autonomous mechanism of cardioprotection involving the SLO1 BK channel". When these individuals perform more 'public' peer reviews then that fact will be reflected on their public profiles (note: reviewers must choose to make their profiles 'public' in order to gain this public recognition, otherwise their contributions remain unacknowledged).
As to the second problem – lack of tangible reward – we are pleased to announce a new 'reviewer reward' program for any PeerJ peer reviewer who submits their review on time. Specifically, reviewers who submit an on-time peer review to PeerJ will now be credited with a limited time (12 month) Basic PeerJ Membership. By introducing this benefit, we are acknowledging the hard work that goes into reviewing, by providing those reviewers with a tangible benefit for their work. This benefit means that if a reviewer chooses to submit an article to PeerJ within 12 months of completing their on-time review then they will not need to buy a membership for that publication (although any co-authors would still need to be paying Members, as normal). They can also take full advantage of unlimited submissions to PeerJ PrePrints for as long as their temporary membership is in place.
There is some small print (see below) but we hope and expect that this new benefit will be well received by our reviewers who will understand that we truly appreciate the efforts they make when submitting their reviews in a timely manner.
PeerJ Reviewer Rewards – the small print
* The Reviewer Reward is only provided to those reviewers who submit an invited peer-review to PeerJ within the agreed review deadline.
* Although PeerJ Memberships are normally 'for life', in the case of this benefit reviewers are only credited with a limited time Basic PeerJ Membership. This limited time Membership lasts for 12 months and then reverts to a Free Membership (unless the individual has chosen to purchase a paid membership in the meantime).
* Basic Membership entitles an author to publish one paper per year for free. Therefore this Reviewer Reward means that an on-time reviewer can publish a single paper with us, within 12 months, without needing to become a paying Member (and they can also take full advantage of unlimited submissions to PeerJ PrePrints).
* The normal PeerJ membership requirements apply to any co-authors of a submission (i.e. all other co-authors would still need to be Members with the correct Membership Status).
* This benefit is for a single individual and is not transferable. If a reviewer is already a paying Member then this reward does not apply.
* This benefit is not cumulative within the 12 month time-frame. If an individual reviews more than one paper in the 12 month period then although they earn our gratitude, they would only receive the one credit.
* Although receiving this credit does not obligate the recipient in any way, Reviewers can choose to decline this credit – just email us to let us know.
A5M | Doctors & Health Professionals - A5M - The AustralAsian Academy of Anti-Ageing Medicine
Anti-Ageing Medicine Trends
Anti-Ageing Medicine is the fastest-growing medical specialty in the world. With growth rates reported by the A4M, Aesthetic and Anti-Ageing Medicine is expected to reach $106 billion dollars during 2009 and $115.5 billion by the year 2010.
You can keep abreast of the latest breakthroughs in preventive and interventive techniques that help your patients achieve their personal best in wellness, longevity and a fulfilling quality of life. World-class Clinical Education A5M is part of a global group headed by the World Anti-Aging Academy of Medicine (WAAAM) and the American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine (A4M) a member-based organisation with over 20,000 physician and scientist members worldwide. Enhance your knowledge and expand your practice potential with Fellowship or Certification through A5M offerings in Anti-Ageing Medicine Education.
A5M Anti-Ageing Education
Each year the A5M agenda of conferences and events expands and improves, with growing attendance by practitioners, speakers and guests from around the world.
A5M Anti-Ageing Events
Inject New Life Into Your Business Practice
How can your practice benefit from adding Anti-Ageing specialties? Enormously! So much more than HRT, pain management or aesthetic procedures, learn more about the multi-disciplinary approach of Anti-Ageing Medicine. Converting to an Anti-Ageing practice model could mean an increase in fees to $60 per patient. This small investment of less than $15,000 could result in increased gross income $115,000. *calculated using data from a 2005/06 survey by finance firms Medfin and McMasters, benchmarking data from the Australian Division of General Practice. Sources: How Much Does A Doctor Earn? ; AGPN research ANTI-AGEING QUICK LINKS
Inhibition of cortisol production with metyrapone prevents mental stress-induced endothelial dysfunction and baroreflex impairment. - UCL Discovery
Broadley, AJM; Korszun, A; Abdelaal, E; Moskvina, V; Jones, CJH; Nash, GB; Ray, C; ... Frenneaux, MP; + view all Broadley, AJM; Korszun, A; Abdelaal, E; Moskvina, V; Jones, CJH; Nash, GB; Ray, C; Deanfield, J; Frenneaux, MP; - view fewer (2005) Inhibition of cortisol production with metyrapone prevents mental stress-induced endothelial dysfunction and baroreflex impairment. J Am Coll Cardiol , 46 (2) pp. 344-350. 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.03.068.
OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to investigate the role of cortisol in stress-induced endothelial dysfunction and impaired baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) by blocking cortisol production with metyrapone before subjecting healthy volunteers to mental stress. BACKGROUND: Mental stress raises cortisol levels and is associated with increased coronary heart disease (CHD) morbidity and mortality, especially from sudden cardiac death. It also causes endothelial dysfunction and impaired BRS. METHODS: We measured brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD), a measure of endothelial function, and BRS in 36 subjects without CHD risk factors who were then randomized in a double-blind fashion to oral metyrapone 750 mg x 2 or placebo. Five hours later we subjected subjects to mental stress and then remeasured endothelial function and BRS. RESULTS: Prestress cortisol levels were significantly higher in the placebo group at 270.5 (30.9) nmol/l versus 89.1 (11.8) nmol/l (p = 0.01), and the increase with stress was higher at 57.9 (17.9) nmol/l versus 11.2 (2.2) nmol/l (p < 0.001). In the placebo group, compared to baseline, FMD and BRS fell significantly from 4.5% (0.7%) to 1.4% (1.1%) (p = 0.02) and 21.4 (2.3) ms/mmHg to 16.3 (1.5) ms/mmHg (p = 0.04), respectively. In the metyrapone group, FMD and BRS were unchanged from baseline: 4.3% (0.9%) versus 5.1% (0.8%) (p = 0.48) and 26.4 (2.9) ms/mmHg versus 24.9 (2.6) ms/mmHg (p = 0.62), respectively. Analysis of covariation showed a significant effect of metyrapone on change in both FMD (p = 0.009) and BRS (p = 0.024). CONCLUSIONS: Stress-related endothelial dysfunction and BRS impairment can be prevented by blocking cortisol production with metyrapone, demonstrating a direct or facilitative role for cortisol in these phenomena and suggesting mechanisms by which stress contributes to CHD and sudden cardiac death.
10.1016/j.jacc.2005.03.068
Adult, Baroreflex, Blood Pressure, Brachial Artery, Coronary Disease, Double-Blind Method, Electrocardiography, Endothelium, Vascular, Enzyme Inhibitors, Female, Heart Rate, Humans, Hydrocortisone, Male, Metyrapone, Monitoring, Physiologic, Nitric Oxide, Regional Blood Flow, Stress, Psychological, Ultrasonography, Vasodilation
Could ketamine be the answer to treating treatment-resistant major depressive disorder? | General Psychiatry
Could ketamine be the answer to treating treatment-resistant major depressive disorder?
Abdullah Mohammed Ramadan and
Islam Ahmed Mansour
Psychiatry, Mansoura University Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura, Egypt
Correspondence to Dr Abdullah Mohammed Ramadan; boodi000{at}icloud.com
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common, serious, debilitating condition affecting 350 million people worldwide, which remains to be unsatisfactorily treated with 53% of patients still complaining of symptoms after completing their courses with the correct dosage. Ketamine, which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2019, is a potential treatment option for those recalcitrant cases. The mechanism of ketamine is not fully understood, but as type it is classified as an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist, and can be given intravenously, intranasally and orally. It is used to treat treatment-resistant depression, depression associated with suicidal ideation, mood and anxiety disorders and depressions associated with either type of bipolar disorder. Although ketamine is considered relatively safe, several side effects have been reported with the major ones being psychiatric in the form of worsening mood, anxiety and agitation; psychotomimetic in the form of dissociation, perceptual disturbance and abnormal sensations; cardiovascular in the form of increased blood pressure and increased heart rate; and neurological in the form of headache and dizziness. Ketamine is still not approved worldwide for usage in patients with treatment-resistant MDD, but if it is approved sometime in the future with relatively fewer side effects, it is expected to significantly save millions of dollars spent yearly on patients with treatment-resistant depression and that will lift this major burden off the shoulders of healthcare professionals. This study was designed to measure the effects of ketamine, an NMDA receptor antagonist, on patients with treatment-resistant MDD and to analyse the concept that makes it different and relatively safer than other major antidepressants like selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, monoamine oxidase inhibitors and TCAs (tricyclic antidepressants).
http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/gpsych-2020-100227
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious condition that affects the lives of many individuals globally. It is estimated that the total number of cases diagnosed with MDD is 350 million people around the world.1 2 And eight hundred thousand patients die every year due to suicidal ideation caused by MDD. MDD poses major burdens to the healthcare systems of different countries around the world.1–3 Despite the different treatment options available in the form of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI), none of them were capable of completely relieving the symptoms of depression and many cases have reported frequent relapses, almost 53%, after completing the courses of their medications with the appropriate doses2 with 20% failing to show improvement on usage of subsequent lines of therapy.2 4 The current economic burden of MDD in the USA alone is estimated at $29–$48 billion per year.5 In fact, it carries a major economic burden in the form of the requirement of numerous emergency rooms, lacking of responsiveness to the current medications and major unemployment to many healthcare professionals.2 6
Currently, there is no consensus on the definition of treatment-resistant depression (TRD), but the current definition is that it is any form of depression in which the patient is not fully relieved from the major symptoms of depression after taking the appropriate courses of at least two antidepressant medications at their adequate time duration.2–5 The main limitation in the usage of these agents, besides the lack of appropriate responsiveness, is the fact that they could take more than 2–4 weeks in order for the initial response to be felt by the patients; in addition numerous studies have shown that many patients report multisystemic, unbearable side effects.7 8
In March 2019, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a new antidepressant medication under the name of ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type of glutamate receptor antagonist. This review is dedicated to knowing the pharmacological details of this medication and how it is different from other antidepressants in the management of TRD.7 8
Ketamine is not a perfect drug. Although studies in many patients have been shown to produce positive results in patients with TRD, they have shown that significant side effects have caused many cases to cease undergoing drug trials. Especially patients with chronic cardiovascular conditions like myocardial infarction, arteriovenous fistulae and chronic hypertension should not be allowed to use ketamine.
Ketamine is an NMDA receptor antagonist that is used in the management of TRDs, depression associated with suicidal ideation, mood and anxiety disorders and depressions associated with either type of bipolar disorder. Unlike other NMDA antagonists, like memantine that is used in the symptomatic management of Alzheimer's disease, the mechanism by which ketamine deals with depression follows a different pathway. It is not fully understood how ketamine treats depression, but it works by different mechanisms. Ketamine could be given by three different methods: orally, intravenously and nasally.9 10
The majority of the randomised controlled trials using a dose of 0.5 mg/kg over 40 min of intravenous ketamine followed by a 20% saline infusion washout have shown significant improvement in depression symptoms and suicidal ideation within 1 week as measured using the Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS).11 12 Response rates for patients using intravenous ketamine were shown to be 50%–70%, which proves to be better than other classes of antidepressants.13 14 Most of the patients have not reported any serious side effects12; however, some patients decided to stop taking the drug after showing major side effects.
The US FDA has recently approved the usage of intranasal esketamine along with an oral antidepressant. The doses used in most of the studies were an initial dose of 28 mg/kg and a maintenance dose of 56 or 84 mg/kg. Most cases have statistically shown significant improvements over 40 min according to the MADRS score. Some major side effects were shown in some patients mainly because of the high level of bioavailability of esketamine as it has no first-pass metabolism.15
Those side effects included dissociation, fatigue, poor memory, severe headaches, nausea, elevated heart rate and blood pressure.
Oral ketamine undergoes a high level of the first-pass metabolism which makes its bioavailability less than 20%. A small open-label study of oral ketamine with a dose of 0.5 mg/kg in hospice patients for 28 days has shown a significant improvement in the MADRS depression scale.16–18 The time to response was 1–2 weeks; however, some patients have decided to withdraw from the trial due to lack of response. Dizziness, delirium, hallucinations, nausea, vomiting and headache were the reported side effects in most of the studies.9
Currently, there is no full consensus among authors on the exact mechanism/s by which ketamine plays a role in the management of TRD. Basically, ketamine is an antagonist that blocks the NMDA receptors, but evidence based on numerous studies has proven that the rapid antidepressant (RAAD) effect that ketamine establishes is not based on its NMDA receptor antagonism. While other FDA-approved antidepressants have their antidepressant roles derived from their effects on monoamines such as serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine, the emergence of ketamine has provided a new perspective that is based on its effects on the glutamate system providing RAAD effects within 4 hours with a long-term effect that lasts for 1 week after a single dose.19
Numerous publications have stated that ketamine induces synaptogenesis at the level of the prefrontal cortex, a part of the brain that atrophies in depressed patients.20 Other studies have also shown that ketamine upregulates the activity of a certain type of receptors called glutamate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) which plays an important role in increasing the levels of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) which induces synaptogenesis at the level of the prefrontal cortex.21 22 Some authors have come to merge the two hypotheses, as shown in figure 1, concluding that the NMDA receptor antagonistic effect of ketamine on GABAergic interneurons induces the release of glutamate from the prefrontal cortex which in turn activates the AMPA receptors. This activation has been shown to urge the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and vascular endothelial growth factor, both of which act on inducing the mTOR, which induces synaptogenesis at the prefrontal cortex level.23–25 This cycle is thought to be relevant to the antidepressant effect of ketamine.
Ketamine works by two currently merged mechanisms: N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor mechanisms. The NMDA receptor antagonistic effect of ketamine on GABAergic interneurons induces the release of glutamate from the prefrontal cortex which in turn activates the AMPA receptors. AMPAR, AMPA receptor; BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor; GABA, gamma-aminobutyric acid; GLT-1, glutamate transporter 1; NMDAR, NMDA receptor.
Side effects reported from 60 studies have shown a variety of adverse effects affecting various body systems: psychiatric, cardiovascular, neurological, cognitive and others. Those studies involved 899 patients who received at least one dose of ketamine.26 Psychiatric side effects were described in 38% of the studies, whereas psychotomimetic ones were described in 72%. The psychiatric side effects included most commonly anxiety, followed by agitation and irritability, delusions and mood elevation. Less common side effects included detachment, emotional blunting, psychosis, craving attention and formal thought disorder. Only one case of suicidal attempt was reported in one study.27 The most commonly reported side effects from most studies that led the participants to withdraw from the trial included worsening mood (12 participants), anxiety (6 participants) and suicidal ideation (5 participants). The psychotomimetic side effects most commonly included dissociation, perceptual disturbance, odd or abnormal sensation, derealisation, hallucinations and depersonalisation. The only cases reported to withdraw from the trials were the ones who suffered dissociation.28 29 Most studies that used the intravenous route of administration rather than the other routes were the ones who mostly had psychiatry and psychotomimetic side effects. WHO has classified ketamine as a Schedule III drug as it carries a potential risk for addiction and abuse. It can be abused in any administered form, intravenously, orally or nasally. Ketamine has a potential risk of abuse by patients self-medicating themselves from depression.
Thirty-eight percent of the 60 studies reported cardiovascular side effects. Most of these changes were in the form of increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, arrhythmia, palpitations, dizziness, chest tightness and decreased blood pressure on standing. Only five cases withdrew from the studies due to serious cardiovascular effects. Most of those effects were also reported on the usage of intravenous ketamine infusion. Those effects only lasted 90 min reportedly.
The most commonly reported neurological side effects were headache and dizziness. The most commonly reported cognitive side effects included poor memory, poor concentration, confusion and cognitive impairment.
Multiple other side effects were reported in 32 (53%) of the studies, these side effects were mainly gastrointestinal, ocular, respiratory and urological.
The most frequently reported other side effects included blurred vision and nausea. Less commonly reported ones were insomnia, general malaise, fatigue, restlessness, dry mouth, vomiting and tearfulness.27
Certain types of drugs should not be used concomitantly with any form of ketamine. Some of these drugs can interfere with the first-pass metabolism in case of being used with oral or intravenous ketamine, others may cause cardiovascular problems especially in individuals with cardiovascular diseases. Such drugs include benzodiazepines, antipsychotics, opioids and alcohol which may all cause sedation. Blood pressure and heart monitoring should be measured in case of using drugs like MAOIs, TCAs, SSRIs, modafinil, armodafinil and amphetamine types of drugs.30 Clonidine can be used safely with esketamine as it can reduce esketamine's ability to cause hypertension and other side effects.31 Midazolam reduces the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.32 Certain CYP(Cytochrome P450) enzyme inducers like rifampicin can reduce the concentration of esketamine and norketamine by 10% and 50%, respectively.33 Coadministration of ketamine and ticlopidine has been proven to increase the maximum plasma concentration of ketamine by 72% and total hepatic clearance by 15.5%.34
Since getting approved for usage by the FDA in March 2019, ketamine has been a glimpse of hope to patients with treatment-resistant MDD due to its rapid efficacy and relatively less adverse effects in comparison to other antidepressant medications. This has proved some relief to the patients, their families, clinicians and world governments' healthcare budgets as well as to the economic burden that treating patients with depression causes to healthcare institutes. However, this interest should not become absolute as the studies that were made for testing ketamine are relatively small and some of the studies made showed considerable risks for abuse and addiction. In addition, ketamine had been shown to cause many side effects in multiple cases. Further studies should be made focused on understanding more about the mechanism of action of ketamine, as most of the studies differ quite significantly on how ketamine acts on depression. They should also focus on limiting the potential risk of addiction that ketamine carries. That could further help in increasing the efficacy and limiting the adverse effects of ketamine.
Rosenblat JD ,
Cha DS , et al
. Strategies to mitigate dissociative and psychotomimetic effects of ketamine in the treatment of major depressive episodes: a narrative review. World J Biol Psychiatry 2017;18:410–23.doi:10.3109/15622975.2016.1139747 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26752601
Powell LC ,
Anderson IM , et al
. The burden of treatment-resistant depression: a systematic review of the economic and quality of life literature. J Affect Disord 2019;242:195–210.doi:10.1016/j.jad.2018.06.045 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30195173
Van Duppen Z
. The impact of (the concept of) treatment-resistant depression: an opinion review. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol 2019;22:85–92.doi:10.1093/ijnp/pyy052
Caraci F ,
. International Union of basic and clinical pharmacology CIV: the neurobiology of treatment-resistant depression: from antidepressant classifications to novel pharmacological targets. Pharmacol Rev 2018;70:475–504.doi:10.1124/pr.117.014977 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29884653
Tandon N ,
. Direct and indirect cost burden and change of employment status in treatment-resistant depression: a matched-cohort study using a US commercial claims database. J Clin Psychiatry 2018;79:17m11725. doi:10.4088/JCP.17m11725 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29474009
Garay RP ,
Zarate CA ,
Charpeaud T , et al
. Investigational drugs in recent clinical trials for treatment-resistant depression. Expert Rev Neurother 2017;17:593–609.doi:10.1080/14737175.2017.1283217 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28092469
. Depression and other common mental disorders. Inst Health Natl 2017;1:1–22.
Stassen HH ,
. Delayed onset of action of antidepressants. CNS Drugs 1998;9:177–84.doi:10.2165/00023210-199809030-00001
O'sullivan AK ,
. Economic burden of treatment-resistant depression on the U.S. health care system. J Manag Care Spec Pharm 2019;25:823–35.doi:10.18553/jmcp.2019.25.7.823 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31232205
Yanagihara Y ,
Kariya S , et al
. Plasma concentration profiles of ketamine and norketamine after administration of various ketamine preparations to healthy Japanese volunteers. Biopharm Drug Dispos 2003;24:37–43.doi:10.1002/bdd.336 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12516077
Lee EE ,
Della Selva MP ,
. Ketamine as a novel treatment for major depressive disorder and bipolar depression: a systematic review and quantitative meta-analysis. Gen Hosp Psychiatry 2015;37:178–84.doi:10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2015.01.003 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25698228
McGirr A ,
Bond DJ , et al
. A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of ketamine in the rapid treatment of major depressive episodes. Psychol Med 2015;45:693–704.doi:10.1017/S0033291714001603 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25010396
. Antidepressant effects of ketamine in depressed patients. Biol Psychiatry 2000;47:351–4.doi:10.1016/S0006-3223(99)00230-9 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10686270
Carlson PJ , et al
. A randomized trial of an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist in treatment-resistant major depression. Arch Gen Psychiatry 2006;63:856–64.doi:10.1001/archpsyc.63.8.856 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16894061
. Intranasal drug delivery in neuropsychiatry: focus on intranasal ketamine for refractory depression. J Clin Psychiatry 2015;76:e628–31.doi:10.4088/JCP.15f10026 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26035196
Iglewicz A ,
Nelesen RA , et al
. Daily oral ketamine for the treatment of depression and anxiety in patients receiving hospice care: a 28-day open-label proof-of-concept trial. J Palliat Med 2013;16:958–65.doi:10.1089/jpm.2012.0617 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23805864
. Oral ketamine for the rapid treatment of depression and anxiety in patients receiving hospice care. J Palliat Med 2010;13:903–8.doi:10.1089/jpm.2010.9808 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20636166
. Ketamine for the treatment of depression in patients receiving hospice care: a retrospective medical record review of thirty-one cases. Psychosomatics 2015;56:329–37.doi:10.1016/j.psym.2014.05.005 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25616995
. Keeping our eyes on STAR*D. Am J Psychiatry 2006;163:1484–6.doi:10.1176/ajp.2006.163.9.1484 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16946168
Abdallah CG ,
Duman RS , et al
. The neurobiology of depression, ketamine and rapid-acting antidepressants: is it glutamate inhibition or activation? Pharmacol Ther 2018;190:148–58.doi:10.1016/j.pharmthera.2018.05.010 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29803629
Liu R-J , et al
. mTOR-Dependent synapse formation underlies the rapid antidepressant effects of NMDA antagonists. Science 2010;329:959–64.doi:10.1126/science.1190287 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20724638
Hoeffer CA ,
. mTOR signaling: at the crossroads of plasticity, memory and disease. Trends Neurosci 2010;33:67–75.doi:10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.003 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19963289
Deyama S ,
Bang E ,
Wohleb ES , et al
. Role of neuronal VEGF signaling in the prefrontal cortex in the rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine. Am J Psychiatry 2019;176:388–400.doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2018.17121368 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30606046
Averill CL , et al
. Ketamine, but not the NMDAR antagonist lanicemine, increases prefrontal global connectivity in depressed patients. Chronic Stress 2018;2:1210–9.doi:10.1177/2470547018796102
Averill LA ,
Collins KA , et al
. Ketamine treatment and global brain connectivity in major depression. Neuropsychopharmacology 2017;42:1210–9.
Short B ,
Fong J ,
Galvez V , et al
. Side-Effects associated with ketamine use in depression: a systematic review. Lancet Psychiatry 2018;5:65–78.
Fedgchin M ,
Daly EJ , et al
. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-frequency study of intravenous ketamine in patients with treatment-resistant depression. Am J Psychiatry 2016;173:816–26.doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2016.16010037 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27056608
Lenze EJ ,
Farber NB ,
Kharasch E , et al
. Ninety-six hour ketamine infusion with co-administered clonidine for treatment-resistant depression: a pilot randomised controlled trial. World J Biol Psychiatry 2016;17:230–8.doi:10.3109/15622975.2016.1142607 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26919405
Li C-T ,
. The effects of low-dose ketamine on the prefrontal cortex and amygdala in treatment-resistant depression: a randomized controlled study. Hum Brain Mapp 2016;37:1080–90.
. United States food and drug administration Approved labelling-Spravato; 2019: 1–41 [Accessed 8 Sep 2019].
Pretto G ,
. Clonidine for reduction of hemodynamic and psychological effects of S+ ketamine anesthesia for dressing changes in patients with major burns: an RCT. Burns 2014;40:1300–7.doi:10.1016/j.burns.2014.07.022 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25178925
. [S-(+)-ketamine. Circulatory interactions during total intravenous anesthesia and analgesia-sedation]. Anaesthesist 1997;46:1081–7.doi:10.1007/s001010050510 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9451493
Noppers I ,
Olofsen E ,
Niesters M , et al
. Effect of rifampicin on S-ketamine and S-norketamine plasma concentrations in healthy volunteers after intravenous S-ketamine administration. Anesthesiology 2011;114:1435–45.doi:10.1097/ALN.0b013e318218a881 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21508826
Ashraf MW ,
Peltoniemi MA ,
. Semimechanistic population pharmacokinetic model to predict the drug-drug interaction between S-ketamine and ticlopidine in healthy human volunteers . CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol 2018;7:687–97.doi:10.1002/psp4.12346 pmid:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30091858
Abdullah Mohammed Hassan Ramadan is a 6th year Medical Student in Mansoura Manchester Program for Medical Education, University of Mansoura in Egypt. His main research interests include neurotransmitter receptors and their functions in drugs with different mechanisms of action, and medications for depression.
