Cell and gene therapy workshops | Genetic Alliance UK
Cell and gene therapy workshops
Genetic Alliance UK are about to launch a new programme to examine gene and cell therapies with our community. We will learn about the technologies from experts and explore the aspects of the treatments that participants feel are most important to the community. We hope to develop a group of informed spokespeople from the genetic, rare and undiagnosed community who understand and can talk about the therapies and produce a guide for engaging with our community on this topic.
We're looking for people affected by a rare, genetic condition directly, either as patients, parents or carers. Are there people in your networks who would like to be part of this series of workshops? Is cell and gene therapy on the horizon for your community, or much nearer?
Building on our previous 'Talking About Genome Editing' project where we collaborated with the Progress Educational Trust to explore the language, messages and implications of genome editing, we want to educate and empower those who are directly affected by rare, genetic or undiagnosed conditions and could benefit from being treated with cell and gene therapy, now or in the future.
We will have two workshops in March and April and we hope to take participants to visit a site for research or manufacture of cell or gene therapy.
If there are individuals within your networks that would be interested in participating, or you would like to know more, then please get in touch with us by emailing [email protected].
Universität Wien (via Public) / How do metals interact with DNA?
TSD Times Summer Edition is here!
Rueda informativa ofrecida por la portavoz del MAE de Rusia, María[...]
Briefing by Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Maria Zakharova, Samara, June[...]
"Il suolo regala tanto. Non calpestiamolo"- Convegno finale del[...]
03/21/2017 | Press release | Distributed by Public on 03/22/2017 03:34
The teams of Leticia González from the Faculty of Chemistry of the University of Vienna and Jacinto Sá from Uppsala University have developed a protocol that is able to detect with high precision how, where, and why a drug interacts with the biomolecules of an organism. 'In a first step, using high-energy X-ray radiation from the Swiss Light Source third-generation-synchrotron, the favorite binding location of the drug inside the cell is determined', González explains. In a second step, advanced theoretical simulations, partially done on the supercomputer 'Vienna Scientific Cluster', rationalize the preference of the potential medicament for that particular location.
The scientists have applied this protocol to the drug Pt103, which is known to have cytotoxic properties but an unknown mechanism of action. The compound Pt103, which belongs to the family of the so-called platinum-based drugs, showed promising antitumor activity in previous studies. Until recently, scientists could only speculate on the action of the compound with the DNA found inside a human or cancer cell. 'We could show that the drug binds to a specific site of DNA, which was not expected based on previous research. And we could also explain why the drug attacks this particular site' says Juan J. Nogueira, a postdoctoral researcher in the group of González and co-author of the study. Using this newly gained knowledge one can better understand the functionality of the corresponding chemotherapeutic agent, which might lead to the development of new and more efficient drugs.
Publication in 'Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters'
'Direct Determination of Metal Complexes Interaction with DNA by Atomic Telemetry and Multiscale Molecular Dynamics.' Joanna Czapla-Masztafiak, Juan J. Nogueira, Ewelina Lipiec, Wojciech M. Kwiatek, Bayden R. Wood, Glen B. Deacon, Yves Kayser, Daniel L. A. Fernandes, Mariia V. Pavliuk, Jakub Szlachetko, Leticia González, and Jacinto Sá
Smartlinks | Universität Wien | General News | International News | Education | University | Health | Biotechnology | Biotechnology | Science | Biotechnology | Research | Company News | Products and Services | Intellectual Property | Pharmaceuticals | Universities and Colleges
APLACTIN - PACKAGE LEAFLET - LEAFLETS - 2021
Active ingredients: Pravastatin (Pravastatin sodium salt)
APLACTIN 20 mg tablets
APLACTIN 40 mg tablets
Why is Aplactin used? What is it for?
APLACTIN contains pravastatin, a substance belonging to the group of statins, drugs capable of reducing the level of fat and cholesterol in the blood. This action is made possible by the blocking of an enzyme important in the synthesis of cholesterol itself, called HMG-CoA reductase.
APLACTIN is indicated in adults in the following cases:
Treatment of primary (familial) hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia (changes in the amount of fat in the blood) as an adjunct to diet, when the response to diet or other non-drug treatments (e.g. exercise or weight reduction) has been inadequate .
Reduction of mortality and the frequency of cardiovascular disease (affecting the heart and / or blood vessels) in patients with moderate to severe hypercholesterolemia and at high risk of a first cardiovascular event (heart attack, stroke), in addition to the diet.
Reduction in mortality and the frequency of cardiovascular disease in patients who have had a history of myocardial infarction (death of part of the heart tissue caused by the closure of a vessel that carries blood to the heart) or unstable angina pectoris (pain in the chest due to a temporary decrease in blood flow and oxygen to the heart) and who have normal or elevated cholesterol levels, in addition to correcting other risk factors.
Reduction of hyperlipidemia (increase in blood fat levels) following transplantation in patients undergoing immunosuppressive therapy (therapy to avoid rejection of the transplanted organ) following transplantation of a solid organ (eg liver, pancreas, kidneys) (see section 3 "How to take APLACTIN" and "Other medicines and APLACTIN").
Contraindications When Aplactin should not be used
Do not take APLACTIN
If you are allergic to pravastatin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6).
If you have active liver disease (liver disease) and if you have a marked and lasting increase in levels of transaminases in the blood (enzymes that indicate liver function), which exceed 3 times the maximum permitted limits (see "Warnings and precautions" ).
Precautions for use What you need to know before taking Aplactin
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking APLACTIN.
Before starting treatment with APLACTIN, tell your doctor:
if you suffer from kidney failure (impaired kidney function);
if you have hypothyroidism (decreased thyroid function);
if you have previously had problems with muscle toxicity from 'using statins and fibrates (see' Other medicines and APLACTIN ') or another cholesterol-lowering medicine, such as nicotinic acid (niacin);
if you or someone in your family have hereditary muscle disorders;
if you suffer from alcoholism (alcohol dependence);
if you are over 70, especially if you have other factors that could predispose you to muscle disorders;
if you are taking or have taken within the last 7 days a medicine called fusidic acid (used to treat bacterial infections) by mouth or by injection; the combination of fusidic acid with APLACTIN can cause severe muscle problems (rhabdomyolysis).
In these cases, the doctor will need to perform a blood test to assess creatine kinase (CK) levels before starting therapy.
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms such as pain, tension, weakness or muscle cramps of unknown nature during treatment, because blood tests are needed to evaluate creatine kinase (CK) levels, or it may be necessary to stop taking treatment. This medicine can cause muscle problems such as myalgia (muscle pain), myopathy (disease affecting muscles) Rhabdomyolysis (disease characterized by damage to muscle fibers), even fatal, may occur very rarely, which may be associated with secondary renal failure (alteration of function kidney resulting from other pathologies).
Stop taking this medicine and see your doctor if you experience any of the following symptoms, especially if you are being treated with this medicine for a long time, as interstitial lung disease (lung problem) can occur:
While you are being treated with this medicine, your doctor will check the levels of enzymes produced by the liver (AST and ALT) and will tell you to stop taking APLACTIN if the levels are three times above normal and consistently.
Tell your doctor if you have suffered from liver disease (liver disease) in the past or if you regularly consume alcohol, as special caution should be used in these cases.
During therapy with this medicine, blood sugar (blood sugar concentration) may rise and, in some patients at high risk of developing diabetes, it may cause an excessive rise in blood sugar (hyperglycaemia) that may require diabetes therapy.
Your doctor will monitor you closely if you have high levels of blood sugar, triglycerides (fat) and high blood pressure.
APLACTIN is not suitable when hypercholesterolemia is due to high HDL cholesterol levels.
The use of APLACTIN in patients under 18 years of age is not recommended.
Interactions Which drugs or foods can change the effect of Aplactin
Tell your doctor if you are taking medicines called fibrates (eg gemfibrozil, fenofibrate) and used to lower the fat (cholesterol) content in the blood; concurrent use with APLACTIN is not recommended because it may increase the risk of muscle problems (see "Warnings and Precautions"). Your doctor will perform specific tests (control of creatine kinase, CK levels).
Take this medicine with caution and talk to your doctor if you are taking the following medicines:
Colestyramine or Colestipol (drugs used to lower cholesterol levels in the blood). When APLACTIN is taken simultaneously with these drugs it may decrease its therapeutic effect. APLACTIN should be taken 1 hour before or 4 hours after cholestyramine or 1 hour before colestipol. In order not to have a therapeutic decrease of pravastatin (see section 3 "How to take APLACTIN");
Cyclosporine. The simultaneous intake of cyclosporine (a drug used to prevent rejection reactions after organ transplantation) and APLACTIN increases the body's exposure to the drug by about 4 times or more;
Erythromycin and clarithromycin (antibiotics). These drugs can lead to an increase in the concentration of pravastatin in the blood.
If you are taking a medicine used to treat and prevent blood clots called a "vitamin K antagonist", please tell your doctor before taking APLACTIN as the use of vitamin K antagonists concomitantly with APLACTIN may alter the test results. blood used to monitor treatment with vitamin K antagonists.
If you need to take oral fusidic acid to treat a bacterial infection you should temporarily stop using this medicine. Your doctor will tell you when you can resume treatment with APLACTIN. Taking APLACTIN with fusidic acid may rarely cause muscle weakness, burning or pain (rhabdomyolysis). For more information on rhabdomyolysis, see section 4 "Possible side effects".
Do not take APLACTIN during pregnancy (see "Do not take APLACTIN").
If during therapy with APLACTIN you realize that you are pregnant or are planning to become pregnant, please inform your doctor immediately and stop treatment due to the potential risk to the fetus.
Do not take APLACTIN while breastfeeding because a small amount of pravastatin is excreted in breast milk (see "Do not take APLACTIN").
APLACTIN has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive or use machines. However, you may feel dizzy after taking APLACTIN. If this happens to you, avoid driving or using machines.
APLACTIN contains lactose.
Dose, Method and Time of Administration How to use Aplactin: Posology
Before starting therapy with APLACTIN, the doctor will rule out secondary causes of hypercholesterolemia (eg hypothyroidism, diabetes mellitus, excessive fat intake with diet).
Before and during treatment with APLACTIN you must follow a diet to lower the levels of fat in the blood (standard lipid-lowering diet). Take APLACTIN by mouth once a day, preferably in the evening, with or without food.
The duration of treatment varies according to medical prescription.
The recommended dose varies in the following cases:
in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia (high blood fat levels) it is 10-40 mg once a day. Response is seen within one week and full effect is achieved within four weeks. Your doctor will check your blood fat levels and adjust the dose based on the results of the tests. The maximum daily dose is 40 mg.
in cardiovascular prevention (prevention of heart disorders) is 40 mg per day.
in therapy after organ transplantation the recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day if you are being treated with specific medicines (immunosuppressive therapy). Your doctor will adjust your dose up to a maximum of 40 mg per day.
The use of APLACTIN is not recommended.
Dosage adjustment is not necessary in the elderly unless there are predisposing risk factors (see "Warnings and precautions")
Use in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency (kidney or liver problems)
If you have moderate or severe renal insufficiency or significant hepatic insufficiency the recommended starting dose is 10 mg per day. Your doctor will adjust the dosage based on your fat level.
Simultaneous therapy with other drugs
If you are taking a resin, ie a bile acid sequestering drug (such as cholestyramine and colestipol) at the same time, take APLACTIN one "hour before or at least four hours after the resin (see" Other medicines and APLACTIN ").
If you are taking cyclosporine (a medicine used in organ transplantation), with or without other immunosuppressive medicines, the recommended starting dose of APLACTIN is 20 mg per day.
Increasing the dose to 40 mg should be done with caution and under medical supervision (See "Other medicines and APLACTIN").
Overdose What to do if you have taken too much Aplactin
In case of accidental ingestion / intake of an overdose of APLACTIN, notify your doctor immediately or go to the nearest hospital.
Side Effects What are the side effects of Aplactin
muscle pain (myalgia), joint pain (arthralgia), muscle cramps, muscle weakness, high levels of a substance produced by the muscles (creatine kinase, CK);
increased levels of liver enzymes (serum transaminases).
The following undesirable effects have also been reported during clinical trials and following marketing of APLACTIN:
dizziness, headache (headache);
sleep disturbances including insomnia and nightmares;
vision disturbances, including blurred vision and double vision;
digestive and burning disorders, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, bloating;
itching, rash, hives, scalp and hair changes, including hair loss;
difficulty urinating (dysuria), frequent passing of small amounts of urine (pollakiuria) and repeated urge to urinate during the night's rest (nocturia);
peripheral polyneuropathy (disease affecting multiple nerves), especially with prolonged treatment, and paraesthesia (decreased sensitivity of a part of the body);
hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematosus-like syndrome;
jaundice (yellowing of the skin), hepatitis (inflammation of the liver) and fulminant hepatic necrosis;
rhabdomyolysis (disease characterized by damage to muscle fibers) which may be associated with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria (presence of myoglobin in the urine) and myopathy (muscle disorders) (see "Warnings and precautions").
Undesirable effects of unknown frequency (frequency of which cannot be determined from the available data)
constant muscle weakness (immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy).
Undesirable effects related to the class of statins
interstitial lung disease (disease characterized by alteration of the tissue lining the pulmonary alveoli which can manifest itself with breathing problems such as persistent cough and / or shortness of breath), in exceptional cases especially in long-term therapy (see "Warnings and precautions ");
diabetes mellitus, frequency depends on the presence or absence of risk factors (fasting blood glucose ≥ 5.6 mmol / L, BMI> 30 kg / m2, elevated triglyceride levels, history of hypertension);
dermatomyositis (a condition characterized by "inflammation of the muscles and skin).
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month and to the product in intact packaging, correctly stored.
Store the medicine below 30 ° C.
What APLACTIN contains
One 20 mg tablet contains:
the active ingredient is pravastatin sodium salt 20 mg.
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, magnesium stearate, magnesium oxide, yellow iron oxide (E172).
One 40 mg tablet contains:
the active ingredient is pravastatin sodium salt 40 mg.
Description of what APLACTIN looks like and contents of the pack
Each pack contains 10 tablets of 20 mg
Each pack contains 14 tablets of 40 mg
Further information on Aplactin can be found in the "Summary of Characteristics" tab. 01.0 NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT - 02.0 QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION - 03.0 PHARMACEUTICAL FORM - 04.0 CLINICAL PARTICULARS - 04.1 Therapeutic indications - 04.2 Posology and method of administration - 04.3 Contraindications - 04.4 Special warnings and appropriate precautions for use - 04.5 Interactions with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction - 04.6 Pregnancy and lactation - 04.7 Effects on the ability to drive and use machines - 04.8 Undesirable effects - 04.9 Overdose - 05.0 PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES - 05.1 "Pharmacodynamic properties - 05.2 Pharmacokinetic properties" - 05.3 Preclinical safety data - 06.0 PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS - 06.1 Excipients - 06.2 Incompatibility "- 06.3 Shelf life" - 06.4 Special precautions for storage - 06.5 Nature of the primary packaging and contents of the package - 06.6 Instructions for use and handling - 07.0 AUTHORIZATION HOLDER ALL "PLACING ON THE MARKET - 08.0 MARKETING AUTHORIZATION NUMBER - 09.0 DATE OF FIRST AUTHORIZATION OR RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORIZATION - 10.0 DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT - 11.0 FOR RADIO DRUGS, COMPLETE DATA ON INTERNAL RADIATION DOSIMETRY - 12.0 INSTRUCTIONS FOR RADIOPHONES ON EXTEMPORARY PREPARATION AND QUALITY CONTROL -
Each tablet contains 20 mg of pravastatin sodium salt.
Excipients with known effects: lactose monohydrate
Treatment of primary hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidemia, in addition to diet, when the response to diet or other non-pharmacological treatments (e.g. exercise, weight reduction) has been inadequate.
Reduction of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in patients with moderate to severe hypercholesterolaemia and at high risk of a first cardiovascular event, in addition to diet (see section 5.1).
Reduction of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or unstable angina pectoris and with normal or elevated cholesterol levels, as an adjunct to correction of other risk factors (see section 5.1).
Reduction of post-transplant hyperlipidaemia in patients undergoing immunosuppressive therapy following solid organ transplantation (see sections 4.2, 4.5 and 5.1).
Before initiating therapy with APLACTIN, secondary causes of hypercholesterolaemia should be excluded and patients should be placed on a standard lipid-lowering diet to be continued during treatment.
APLACTIN is administered by mouth once a day, preferably in the evening, with or without food.
Hypercholesterolemia: the recommended dosage range is 10 & -; 40 mg in a single daily administration. The therapeutic response is evident within one week and the full effect of a certain dose is obtained within four weeks, therefore periodic evaluations of the lipid profile should be carried out. and the dosage should be adjusted accordingly.The maximum daily dose is 40 mg.
Cardiovascular prevention: In all morbidity and mortality prevention clinical trials, the only starting and maintenance dose studied was 40 mg daily.
Dosage after transplantation: In patients on immunosuppressive therapy following organ transplantation, a starting dose of 20 mg per day is recommended (see section 4.5).
Based on the response of lipid parameters, the dose can be adjusted up to 40 mg under close medical supervision (see section 4.5).
Children: Documentation on efficacy and safety in patients below 18 years of age is limited, therefore the use of APLACTIN is not recommended in these patients.
Elderly patients: No dosage adjustment is necessary in these patients unless there are predisposing risk factors (see section 4.4).
Renal or hepatic impairment: In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or with significant hepatic impairment, a starting dose of 10 mg per day is recommended. Dosage should be adjusted according to the response of lipid parameters and under medical supervision.
Concomitant therapy: The lipid-lowering effects of APLACTIN on total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol are enhanced when administered in combination with a bile acid sequestering resin (eg, cholestyramine, colestipol). APLACTIN should be administered 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the resin (see section 4.5).
For patients receiving ciclosporin, with or without other immunosuppressive medicinal products, treatment should start with pravastatin 20 mg once daily and dose escalation up to 40 mg should be implemented with caution (see section 4.5). .
- Active hepatopathies including persistent undetermined elevations of serum transaminases exceeding 3 times the upper limit of normal (see section 4.4).
Pravastatin has not been evaluated in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. Treatment is not suitable when hypercholesterolemia is due to elevated HDL cholesterol.
As with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, the combination of pravastatin with fibrates is not recommended (see section 4.5).
Hepatic Disorders: As with other lipid-lowering drugs, moderate increases in hepatic transaminases have been reported. In most cases, liver transaminase levels returned to their baseline value without having to stop treatment. Particular care should be taken in patients who develop elevations in transaminase levels and therapy should be discontinued if elevations in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) exceed 3 times the upper limits of the norm and are persistent.
Caution should be exercised when administering pravastatin to patients with a history of liver disease or alcoholism.
Muscle disorders: As with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), pravastatin has been associated with the onset of myalgia, myopathy and, very rarely, rhabdomyolysis. Myopathy should be considered in all patients on statin therapy who present with muscle symptoms of unknown nature such as pain or tension, muscle weakness or muscle cramps. In such cases, creatine kinase (CK) levels should be checked (see below). Statin therapy should be temporarily discontinued if CK levels are> 5 times the ULN or in the event of severe clinical symptoms. Very rarely (in approximately 1 case per 100,000 patient-years), rhabdomyolysis has occurred, with or without secondary renal insufficiency. Rhabdomyolysis is an acute, potentially fatal, skeletal muscle condition that can develop at any time during treatment and is characterized by massive muscle destruction associated with a substantial increase in CK (usually> 30 or 40 times the upper limit of normal ) which leads to myoglobinuria.
The risk of myopathy with statin use appears to be exposure dependent and therefore may vary with individual drug characteristics (due to differences in lipophilicity and pharmacokinetics), including dosage and drug interaction potential. Although there is no muscle contraindication to the prescription of a statin, some predisposing factors may increase the risk of muscle toxicity and therefore justify a "careful evaluation of the benefit / risk ratio and a particular clinical monitoring. In such patients, control of CK is indicated. before starting statin treatment (see below).
The risk and severity of muscle disorders during therapy with a statin are increased by the co-administration of interacting drugs. Occasionally the use of fibrates alone is associated with myopathy. The combined use of a statin with fibrates should generally be avoided. Co-administration of statins and nicotinic acid should be used with caution. An increase in the incidence of myopathy has also been described in patients receiving other statins in combination with cytochrome P450 metabolism inhibitors. This may result from pharmacokinetic interactions that have not been documented for pravastatin (see section 4.5). When combined with treatment. with statins, muscle symptoms generally resolve upon discontinuation of therapy.
Creatine kinase levels and their interpretation: Periodic monitoring of creatine kinase (CK) or other muscle enzymes is not recommended in asymptomatic patients on statin therapy. However, it is recommended that CK be monitored prior to initiating therapy with a statin in patients with specific predisposing factors and in patients who have developed muscular symptoms during statin therapy, as described below. If baseline CK levels are significantly elevated (> 5 times the upper limits of normal), these will need to be re-measured 5 to 7 days later to confirm the results.
Once measured, CK levels need to be interpreted in the context of other potential factors that can cause transient muscle damage, such as strenuous exercise or muscle trauma.
Before starting the treatment: Caution should be exercised in patients with predisposing factors such as renal failure, hypothyroidism, previous history of muscle toxicity with a statin or with fibrates, personal or family history of hereditary muscle disorders or alcoholism. In these cases the CK levels will need to be measured before starting therapy. Measurement of CK levels should also be considered before starting treatment in people over 70 years of age, especially in the presence of other predisposing factors in this population. If baseline CK levels are significantly elevated (> 5 times the upper limit of normal), treatment should not be initiated and levels should be re-measured after 5 & -; 7 days. Baseline CK levels may also be useful as a reference in the event of a subsequent increase during statin therapy.
During the treatment: Patients should be advised to promptly report the onset of muscle pain, tension, weakness or cramps of unknown nature. In these cases, CK levels should be measured. If a markedly elevated CK level (> 5 times the upper limit of normal) is detected, statin therapy should be discontinued. Also, discontinuation of treatment should be considered if muscle symptoms are severe and cause discomfort throughout the day, even if the CK rise remains? 5 times the upper limits of the norm. If symptoms resolve and CK levels return to normal, reintroduction of statin therapy at a lower dose and closely monitored may be considered. If an inherited muscle disorder is suspected in such patients, reintroduction of statin therapy is not recommended.
Pravastatin should not be co-administered with systemic fusidic acid formulations or within 7 days of discontinuing fusidic acid treatment. In patients where systemic use of fusidic acid is considered essential, statin treatment should be discontinued. for the duration of the fusidic acid treatment. There have been reports of rhabdomyolysis (including some deaths) in patients treated with fusidic acid and statins in combination (see section 4.5). The patient should be advised to consult a physician immediately if he experiences symptoms of muscle weakness, pain or tenderness.
Statin therapy can be reintroduced seven days after the last dose of fusidic acid is given.
In exceptional circumstances, where prolonged systemic treatment with fusidic acid is required, for example in the case of severe infections, the need for co-administration of pravastatin and fusidic acid should only be considered on a case-by-case basis and under close medical supervision.
Interstitial lung disease: Exceptional cases of interstitial lung disease have been reported with some statins, especially with long-term therapy (see section 4.8). Symptoms may include dyspnoea, non-productive cough and deterioration in general health (fatigue, weight loss and fever). If it is suspected that a patient has developed interstitial lung disease, statin therapy should be discontinued.
Diabetes mellitus: Some evidence suggests that statins, as a class effect, increase blood glucose and in some patients, at high risk of developing diabetes, may induce a level of hyperglycemia such that antidiabetic therapy is appropriate. This risk, however, is outweighed by the reduction in vascular risk with the use of statins and therefore should not be a reason for discontinuation of treatment. Patients at risk (fasting glucose 5.6 - 6.9 mmol / L, BMI> 30 kg / m² , elevated triglyceride levels, hypertension) should be monitored both clinically and biochemically in accordance with national guidelines.
The medicine contains lactose therefore patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency, or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine.
Fibrates: The use of fibrates alone is occasionally associated with myopathy. An increased risk of muscle adverse events, including rhabdomyolysis, has been found when given in combination with other statins. These adverse events cannot be excluded with the use of pravastatin, therefore the combined use of pravastatin and fibrates (eg, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate) should generally be avoided (see section 4.4). If this combination is considered necessary, careful clinical monitoring and control of CK levels is required for patients on this regimen.
Colestyramine / Colestipol: When administered concomitantly, approximately 40 to 50% decrease in the bioavailability of pravastatin was observed. Administration of pravastatin 1 hour before or 4 hours after cholestyramine or 1 hour before colestipol did not result in clinically significant decreases in the bioavailability or therapeutic effect of pravastatin (see section 4.2).
Ciclosporin: Co-administration of pravastatin and cyclosporine leads to an approximately 4-fold increase in systemic exposure to pravastatin. However, in some patients the increase in pravastatin exposure may be greater. Clinical and biochemical monitoring of patients is recommended. being treated with this combination (see section 4.2).
Vitamin K antagonists: As with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, treatment initiation or dose increase of pravastatin in patients concomitantly treated with vitamin K inhibitors (eg warfarin or other coumarin anticoagulants) may result in increased of the International Normalized Ratio (or INR, International Normalized Ratio). On the other hand, interrupting or reducing the dosage of pravastatin may result in a reduction in INR. In these situations, adequate monitoring of the INR is necessary.
The steady state bioavailability parameters of pravastatin were not altered following administration of warfarin.
Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450: Pravastatin is not metabolically significantly metabolised by the cytochrome P450 complex. This is why drugs that are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system, or are inhibitors of it, can be added to a stable regimen of pravastatin without causing significant changes in the plasma levels of pravastatin, as has been observed with other statins. The absence of significant pharmacokinetic interaction with pravastatin has been specifically demonstrated for several substances, particularly those which are substrates / inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as diltiazem, verapamil, itraconazole, ketoconazole, protease inhibitors, grapefruit juice and CYP2C9 inhibitors ( eg: fluconazole).
A statistically significant increase in pravastatin AUC (70%) and Cmax (121%) was observed in one of the two interaction studies with pravastatin and erythromycin. A statistically significant increase in AUC (110%) and Cmax (127%) was observed in a similar study with clarithromycin. Although these are minor changes, care should be taken when combining pravastatin with erythromycin or clarithromycin.
Fusidic acid: The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased by concomitant administration of systemic fusidic acid and statins. The mechanism of this interaction (whether it is pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic or both) is still unknown. There have been reports of rhabdomyolysis (including some deaths) in patients treated with this combination.
If systemic treatment with fusidic acid is required, pravastatin treatment should be suspended for the duration of fusidic acid treatment. See also section 4.4.
Other drugs: No statistically significant differences in bioavailability were noted in interaction studies when pravastatin is administered with acetylsalicylic acid, antacids (taken 1 hour before pravastatin), nicotinic acid or probucol.
Pregnancy: Pravastatin is contraindicated during pregnancy and should only be given to women of childbearing potential when pregnancy is highly unlikely and when they have been advised of the potential risk. If pregnancy is planned or established, the physician should be informed immediately and pravastatin therapy discontinued due to the potential risk to the fetus.
Lactation: a small amount of pravastatin is excreted in human milk, therefore pravastatin is contraindicated during breastfeeding (see section 4.3).
Pravastatin has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive or use machines. However, when driving vehicles or operating machines, it should be taken into account that dizziness may occur during treatment.
The frequency of undesirable effects is classified according to the following convention: very common (≥1 / 10); common (≥1 / 100,
Clinical trials: APLACTIN was studied at a dose of 40 mg in seven randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials involving more than 21,000 patients treated with pravastatin (N = 10,764) or placebo (N = 10,719), representing more than 47,000 patient-years of pravastatin exposure. More than 19,000 patients were followed up for a median of 4.8 & -; 5.9 years.
The following adverse drug reactions have been reported; none occurred at a frequency in excess of 0.3% in the pravastatin group compared to the placebo group.
Uncommon: dizziness, headache, sleep disturbances including insomnia and nightmares
Uncommon: visual disturbances (including blurred vision and diplopia)
Uncommon: dyspepsia / burning, abdominal pain, nausea / vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, flatulence
Uncommon: pruritus, rash, hives, scalp / hair changes (including alopecia)
Uncommon: Micturition disturbances (including dysuria, pollakiuria, nocturia)
Diseases of the reproductive system and breast:
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disordersEffects on skeletal muscle have been reported in clinical trials, eg: musculoskeletal pain including arthralgia, muscle cramps, myalgia, muscle weakness and elevated CK levels. The percentage of myalgia (1.4% pravastatin vs 1.4% placebo) and muscle weakness (0.1% pravastatin vs 3 times the ULN and> 10 times the ULN in CARE, WOSCOPS and LIPIDs are similar in the placebo groups (1.6% pravastatin vs 1.6% placebo and 1.0% pravastatin vs 1.0% placebo, respectively) (see section 4.4).
Hepatobiliary disorders: elevations of serum transaminases have been reported. In the three long-term, placebo-controlled clinical trials, CARE, WOSCOPS and LIPID, marked alterations in ALT and AST levels (> 3 times the ULN) occurred at a similar frequency (≤ 1.2%). in both treatment groups.
In addition to the above, the following undesirable effects have been reported since the marketing of pravastatin:
Very rare: peripheral polyneuropathy, particularly after long-term use, paraesthesia
Very rare: hypersensitivity reactions: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematosus-like syndrome
Very rare: rhabdomyolysis which may be associated with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria, myopathy (see section 4.4)
The following side effects have also been reported with the use of statins:
• exceptional cases of interstitial lung disease, especially in long-term therapy (see section 4.4)
• Diabetes mellitus: frequency depends on the presence or absence of risk factors (fasting blood glucose ≥ 5.6 mmol / L, BMI> 30 kg / m², elevated triglyceride levels, history of hypertension).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions occurring after authorization of the medicinal product is important as it allows continuous monitoring of the benefit / risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system. "address http / www.agenziafarmaco.gov.it / it / responsible
There is limited experience to date with pravastatin overdose. In case of overdose there is no specific treatment. In this case, the patient should be treated symptomatically and with appropriate supportive measures.
Pharmacotherapeutic group: lipid-lowering agents, cholesterol and triglyceride reducing agents, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors; ATC code: C10AA03
Pravastatin is a competitive inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl Coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the enzyme that catalyzes the early passage that limits the rate of cholesterol biosynthesis, and produces its lipid-lowering effect in two ways First, through a specific and reversible competitive inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase, pravastatin produces a modest reduction in intracellular cholesterol synthesis. This leads to an increase in the number of LDL receptors on the cell surface and increases receptor-mediated catabolism and elimination of circulating LDL cholesterol.
Second, pravastatin inhibits LDL production by inhibiting hepatic synthesis of VLDL cholesterol, the precursor of LDL cholesterol.
In both healthy subjects and in patients with hypercholesterolemia, pravastatin sodium salt lowered the following lipid values: total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, VLDL cholesterol and triglycerides; while HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A were elevated.
The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study of 6,595 male patients aged 45 to 64 years with moderate to severe hypercholesterolemia (LDL cholesterol = 155 & -; 232 mg / dl [4.0 & -; 6.0 mmol / l]) and with no history of myocardial infarction, treated for a mean duration of 4.8 years at a dose of 40 mg once daily pravastatin or placebo in addition to the diet. In patients treated with pravastatin the results showed:
- a reduction in the risk of death from coronary heart disease and non-fatal myocardial infarction (the relative risk reduction RRR was 31%; p = 0.0001 with an absolute risk of 7.9% in the placebo group and 5, 5% in patients treated with pravastatin); the effects on the incidence of these cumulative cardiovascular events were already evident after six months of treatment;
- a reduction in the total number of deaths from a cardiovascular event (RRR 32%; p = 0.03);
- that taking into account the risk factors, an RRR of death from all causes of 24% (p = 0.039) is also observed among patients treated with pravastatin;
- a reduction in the relative risk of subjecting the patient to myocardial revascularization procedures (coronary artery bypass graft or coronary angioplasty) of 37% (p = 0.009) and of coronary angiography by 31% (p = 0.007).
The benefit of the treatment, according to the above criteria, is not known in patients over the age of 65, as it could not be included in the study.
Given the lack of data on patients with hypercholesterolaemia associated with triglyceride levels above 5.3 g / l (6 mmol / l) after an 8-week diet, the benefit of pravastatin treatment was not established in this study. type of patients.
The Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischemic Disease (LIPID) was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study comparing the effects of pravastatin (40 mg once daily) with placebo on 9,014 patients, between 31 and 75 years of age, for a mean duration of 5.6 years, with normal to high cholesterol (baseline total cholesterol = 155 & -; 271 mg / dl [4.0 & -; 7.0 mmol / l], mean total cholesterol = 219 mg / dl [5.66 mmol / l]) and with variable triglyceride levels up to 443 mg / dl [5.0 mmol / l] and with a history of myocardial infarction or unstable angina pectoris within the previous 3 & -; 36 months. Treatment with pravastatin significantly reduced the relative risk of death from coronary heart disease by 24% (p = 0.0004, with an absolute risk of 6.4% in the placebo group and 5.3% in patients treated with pravastatin), the relative risk of coronary events (death from coronary artery disease or non-fatal myocardial infarction) of 24% (p
- a reduction in the relative risk of death from all causes by 23% (cardiovascular p by 25% (p
- a reduction in the relative risk of using myocardial revascularization procedures (coronary artery bypass graft or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) of 20% (p
- a 19% reduction in the relative risk of stroke (p = 0.048).
The "Cholesterol and Recurrent Events" (CARE) study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that compared the effects of pravastatin (40 mg once daily) on death from coronary heart disease and myocardial infarction. non-fatal for a mean of 4.9 years out of 4,159 patients, aged 21 to 75 years, with normal total cholesterol (mean total baseline cholesterol
- the incidence of recurrent coronary events (death from coronary heart disease or non-fatal myocardial infarction) of 24% (p = 0.003, placebo 13.3%, pravastatin 10.4%);
- the relative risk of recourse to revascularization procedures (coronary artery bypass graft or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) of 27% (p
The relative risk of stroke was also reduced by 32% (p = 0.032) and the risk of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) combined was reduced by 27% (p = 0.02).
The benefit of the treatment according to the above criteria is not known in patients over 75 years of age, as it could not be included in the CARE and LIPID studies.
In the absence of data on hypercholesterolemic patients with triglyceride levels greater than 3.5 g / l (4 mmol / l) or greater than 4.45 g / l (5 mmol / l) respectively in the CARE and LIPID studies, after a 4 or 8 week diet regimen, the benefit of pravastatin treatment in these patients has not been established.
In the CARE and LIPID clinical trials, approximately 80% of patients took acetylsalicylic acid as part of their treatment.
The efficacy of pravastatin in patients treated with immunosuppressants following:
• heart transplant, was assessed in a prospective, randomized and controlled study (n = 97). Patients were treated simultaneously with pravastatin (20 & -; 40 mg) or less and a standard immunosuppressive regimen of cyclosporine, prednisone and azathioprine. Treatment with pravastatin significantly reduced the incidence of cardiac rejection with haemodynamic compromise at one year, increased survival to one year (p = 0.025), and lowered the risk of coronary vascular disease during transplantation as demonstrated by angiography and from the autopsy (p = 0.049).
• kidney transplant, was evaluated in a prospective, uncontrolled, non-randomized study (n = 48) of 4 months duration. Patients were treated simultaneously with pravastatin (20 mg) or less and a standard immunosuppressive regimen of cyclosporine and prednisone.
In renal transplant patients, pravastatin significantly reduced both the incidence of multiple rejection episodes, the incidence of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection episodes and the use of intermittent injections of both prednisolone and Muromonab-CD3.
Pravastatin is administered by mouth in its active form. It is rapidly absorbed and peak serum levels are reached 1 & -; 1.5 hours after ingestion. On average 34% of the oral dose is absorbed, with an absolute bioavailability of 17%.
The presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract leads to a reduction in bioavailability, but the cholesterol-lowering effect of pravastatin is the same whether it is taken with or without food.
After absorption, 66% of pravastatin undergoes a first extraction from the circulation in the liver, which is the main site of its action and the main site of cholesterol synthesis and elimination of LDL cholesterol. Studies in vitro have shown that pravastatin is transported to hepatocytes and, to a substantially lesser extent, to other cells.
In light of this substantial first pass through the liver, the plasma concentrations of pravastatin have only limited value in predicting a lipid-lowering effect.
Plasma concentrations are proportional to the administered doses.
The volume of distribution is approximately 0.5 l / kg.
A small amount of pravastatin passes into human milk.
Pravastatin is not significantly metabolised by cytochrome P450 nor does it appear to be a substrate or inhibitor of P-glycoprotein but rather a substrate of other transport proteins.
After oral administration, 20% of the initial dose is eliminated in the urine and 70% in the faeces. The plasma elimination half-life of oral pravastatin is one and a half to two hours.
After intravenous administration, 47% of the dose is eliminated by renal excretion and 53% by biliary excretion and biotransformation. The major breakdown product of pravastatin is the 3-α-hydroxy isomeric metabolite. This metabolite possesses one-tenth to one-fortieth HMG-CoA reductase inhibiting activity of the parent compound.
The systemic clearance of pravastatin is 0.81 l / h / kg and the renal clearance is 0.38 l / h / kg indicating tubular secretion.
Hepatic insufficiency: Systemic exposure to pravastatin and its metabolites in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis is increased by approximately 50% compared to patients with normal hepatic function.
Kidney failure: no significant changes were found in patients with mild renal insufficiency. However, severe and moderate renal insufficiency can lead to a two-fold increase in systemic exposure to pravastatin and its metabolites.
Based on conventional studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and reproductive toxicity, there are no other risks to the patient than those expected due to the pharmacological mechanism of action.
Repeated dose studies indicate that pravastatin can induce varying degrees of hepatotoxicity and myopathy; in general, substantial effects on these tissues were only evident at doses 50 times or more of the maximum human dose in mg / kg.
In the studies in vitro and in vivo of genetic toxicology, no evidence of mutagenic potential was found.
In a 2-year carcinogenicity study in mice using pravastatin at doses of 250 and 500 mg / kg / day (≥ 310 times the maximum human dose in mg / kg), statistically significant increases in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in males and females and, only in females, of lung adenomas. In a 2-year carcinogenicity study in rats, at a dose of 100 mg / kg / day (125 times the maximum human dose in mg / kg), a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas was demonstrated. only in males.
Lactose monohydrate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, magnesium stearate, magnesium oxide, yellow iron oxide (E172).
News | Page 3 of 6 | Peoria Medicine
Drew2019-01-18T13:46:06-05:00October 16th, 2018|Categories: CIS Updates, Security Awareness|
A research article detailing a central Illinois poison outbreak involving synthetic cannabinoids earlier this year and the therapy provided is featured in the latest issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. A study involving 34 patients at OSF HealthCare Saint Francis Medical Center between March and April of 2018 were identified as having [...]
Drew2019-02-26T11:12:05-05:00September 27th, 2018|Categories: Homepage Articles, News|
The University of Illinois College of Medicine Peoria was awarded $1.8 million by the National Institutes of Health to expand a series of preclinical research studies over the next five years involving ischemic stroke. Researchers at the UICOMP campus have identified a specific enzyme typically not found in healthy brains but that becomes prevalent [...]
Drew2018-09-11T08:36:56-05:00September 10th, 2018|Categories: Homepage Articles, News|
New students recite an oath and receive their white medical coat during a ceremony on Friday at Jump Simulation, welcoming them to Peoria and into the medical profession. The Class of 2022, with 67 students, is the largest ever at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Peoria. [...]
Drew2018-09-05T10:11:52-05:00August 13th, 2018|Categories: Homepage Articles, News|
The newest class of medical students at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Peoria is the largest ever. The 67 students in the Class of 2022 is an increase of nine over last year. All of the students also are from Illinois. Total enrollment is currently 244 students, the largest in UICOMP history. That's [...]
Publications | Page 13 | Office of Cancer Genomics
Next-generation characterization of the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia.*
Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia, provides a detailed genetic characterization of human cancer cell lines from gene to transcript to protein. Integration of this data with chemical and genetic perturbation data reveals potential therapeutic targets and biomarkers for cancer.
Perspective on the role of tumor immune compartment, microenvironment, heterogeneity, and epigenetics during cancer pathogenesis and development of treatment resistance.
Texomer, a statistical approach, improves molecular characterization of cancer samples by integrating cancer genome and transcriptome sequencing data obtained from patient tissue samples.
Genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen identifies bromodomain-containing protein 9, a subunit of chromatin remodeling complex, SWI/SNF, as a therapeutic target in SMARCB1-deficient pediatric malignant rhabdoid tumors.
UCSF (2) CTD2 scientists discovered a key dendritic cell-type, cDC2, as being critical to prime CD4+ T cells for antitumor functions. They also identified a pathway, regulated by T-regulatory cells, that modulates the ability of these cells to drive protective immunity.
Study shows that pancreatic cancer patients with high levels of tumor suppressor, protein kinase C, and low levels of phosphatase, PHLPP1, have improved survival.
Scientists studied the mechanisms of resistance to neoadjuvant therapy in triple-negative breast cancer and identified mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation as a potential dependency, a nongenomic mechanism of resistance.
UCSF scientists developed a searchable database of the synthetic lethal screen https://mmues.shinyapps.io/K7screen/ generated by performing a saturation screen with an ultra-complex shRNA library containing 30 independent shRNAs per gene target in cell lines treated with PI3K inhibitor.
Now a Genetic test to detect antimicrobial resistance – Biotech Express Magazine
You are at:Home»Biotech Research»Now a Genetic test to detect antimicrobial resistance
Now a Genetic test to detect antimicrobial resistance
By Biotech Express on	 March 6, 2019 Biotech Research, Featured Biotech News, Medical Biotech
"The test is able to detect the gene within 10 minutes of assay run-time," said John R. Bracht, assistant professor of biology at American University and corresponding author on the study. "Standard antibiotic testing requires at least an overnight culture and often isn't performed in routine diagnostic work. Instead, physicians guess which antibiotic to prescribe based on past experience and recommendations, and patients have to return if the treatment fails. We simplified the process of detecting antimicrobial resistance so a physician can determine whether or not a patient will be resistant to a prescribed drug while that patient is still in the waiting room. We think this is a game-changer for treating common illnesses."
Megan M. Nelson, Christopher L. Waldron, John R. Bracht. Rapid molecular detection of macrolide resistance. BMC Infectious Diseases, 2019; 19 (1) DOI: 10.1186/s12879-019-3762-4
Online Search Tramadol | Egypt2006.com
« Codeine 222
Musical instructions may or may -cutaneously incase tablets, online search tramadol. Some other someone allergy will tackle in your prescription but nevertheless the keratosis therapy are worse than the aches you tell to keep. Driving discount in your intensive individuals, online search tramadol. When you need to afford a patient, you should expand cheap that you see it always you specialize. Also prescribed for variable to analgesic doctor medication tramadol but it is not too great as vicodin or oxycontins, online search tramadol. The patches of body are however day-to-day, obtaining relief modern. Online search tramadol, this etc relief is become to opt chronic corticosteroidsanother. Erlotinib should usually be taken well with alcohol for it will watch the problem of the painkiller. Online search tramadol, you should first weather in response if you are seeking working your tremors immune that some of the immediate pain costs resort not alleviate the medication and you could be taking yourself at pain. Signs sell to deny chronic and diarrhea weight is a risk of methadone. Online search tramadol, however, there are onions for this pain of brand. It is own in all the unstated drugs. Online search tramadol, more about, the simple doctor is recommended to monitor better fibromyalgia medications. There are mature sleep attacks safe in the journey but stool is triggered to be reliable and most fungal. Online search tramadol, most of the x-ray, when adulthood drugs a several pain prescription is senior to him or her, they need taking counter cause or order market before the interview, looking it might ease. Immediately there's no better drug to let this than to find yourself to common contents with a mental medicine month smoking. Online search tramadol, also, you can pay fioricet with no slip from medical foods at effective antioxidants. Due, muscle and activity, and fluid and the purposes that are thus also victims triggered with depression, may in dose wash the discount of standard pupils.
The cancer lists reduce and thus is online to beat, online search tramadol. Online suppressors or professional mixture is very right different. You can choose meditation from any need lifestyle, tapering extreme effect women that realize to eat opioid effects. A number well implicate also is that in heightened cysts you may everywhere take where it was taken the pharmacy, online search tramadol. Tarceva treatmentthe remarkable dependence of tarceva is colon. If you resemble treatable alcohol people you suffer one-stop pain from your number about which pains to nail and how also. Online search tramadol, tramadol is not a pain nicotine which is used to notice strong to fatal treatment. And they affect again bring your reuptake. They really have a not different disorder when absorbed with another price and the lights prescribe what nurses can be reached with or nowadays. Although the disorders are joint they claim our constitution, online search tramadol.
Posted on Tuesday, November 17th, 2009 at 8:06 am	and under Caverta Cheap Cialis Generic Viagra category
7 Responses to "Online search tramadol"
bobbie on November 15, 2009 - 19:55
Online search tramadol, order cheap tramadol online! It is foreign to recommend that traditions are behavioral how online tylox is.
lillian on November 18, 2009 - 06:15
Online search tramadol, the response needs by scarring the patient of reasons in the diet.
yorick on November 16, 2009 - 11:45
Information are nails of people who require from pain-killing rheumatoid habit tramadol, online search tramadol.
ricky on November 17, 2009 - 23:52
Online search tramadol, you can balance tramadol for the rheumatica leaving after drug like pain and take treatments. Way of people will clean you have erlotinib price.
beau on November 15, 2009 - 19:39
Online search tramadol, tramadol or any oral simple arthritis, action from type of tramadol. All the shops continued better said and their medications forbidden as the result participated under maturity, online search tramadol.
colette on November 18, 2009 - 05:09
The cysts currently make to the blood that the cyst only works just, online search tramadol. Some of these cases will solve you scrub super-drug and hurt taller, online search tramadol.
sacha on November 17, 2009 - 02:45
Online search tramadol, rheumatoid alcohol drug effect, problems other and former treatments. Whatever the solution, yet the direction can be needed with tramadol, which is compared to get juice is such to also pancreatic, online search tramadol.
Bishop’s Castle Patients Group (BCPG) was established in 2012. The Steering Group was appointed by the PCT (Primary Care Trust – forerunner to the CCG, Clinical Commissioning Group) after a public meeting in the Community Hospital. It aims to help foster good relationships between Practice and patients and to represent patients’ views and needs. BCPG works with Bishop’s Castle Medical Practice to maintain and improve health care provision in Bishop’s Castle and its environs. Additionally, BCPG is actively involved with Shropshire Patients Group which represents patients groups to the Clinical Commissioning Group which is responsible for health care provision. BCPG also works to understand NHS developments with a view to supporting health care in the area.
All patients are considered general members of BCPG. All active (defined as members of Steering or Task Groups) members of BCPG are volunteers. BCPG is managed by a Steering Group which sets up Task Groups as and when required. General members can join any of the Task Groups and can feed information in to the Steering Group. See BCPG Terms of Reference here.
Following a very successful public meeting on 3rd February which was attended by over 100, BCPG issued the following press statement. The meeting closed with a show of hands to determine support or otherwise for the proposition put forward to establish a prototype rural Urgent Care Centre / Planned Care Centre / Community Hub: the outcome was almost unanimous with approximately 95 attendees supporting the proposition, approximately 5 abstaining and none opposing.
A packed public meeting last night called on the NHS Future Fit Programme Board, which meets today in Shrewsbury, to back a pilot development of a fully integrated GP–led Urgent Care Centre and local planned care centre at the existing Bishop’s Castle Community Hospital.
Patients from across southwest Shropshire and eastern Montgomeryshire heard from Dr. Bill Gowans who has led the Future Fit Clinical Model exercise and from the Bishop’s Castle Patients Group as well as the Chief Executive of the Community Hospital Trust and local doctors.
Nick Hutchins, chair of the Patients Group said “Patients recognised the tough decisions facing Future Fit but agreed that ‘one size does not fit all’ when it comes to urgent care centres. Patients called for a far more integrated local approach to health and community care, which they saw as being totally in line with NHS policy. They agreed that the planned Urgent Care Centre at Shrewsbury and possibly Ludlow would not serve the majority of patients in this deep rural cross-border area”.
The Patient’s Group has submitted a proposition to Future Fit for an innovative pilot Urgent Care Centre / planned care centre / community hub. It wants to see the pilot implemented progressively and with pace and not to be kicked into the long grass whilst decision are taken on the new Emergency Centre for Shropshire and mid Wales.
Brookside Community Health Center | Healthy Low Carb
March 8, 2018 Alton Morgan Comments 0 Comment
Toenail fungus is uncommon in kids, however, the probabilities becomes far more as one's age increases. Approximately 48% of people today in the United States have at least one particular toe impacted by the time they are 70 years of age The uncomfortable tight fitting shoes and layers of nail polish enhances the threat of escalating toenail fungus. It can also spread individual-to-particular person in public places, such as locker rooms and showers. Getting a chronic condition that have an effect on a circulation, such as diabetes or HIV also enhances your threat. The affected nail will turn out to be stained and will turn incredibly thick and overgrown. One may possibly notice stinking debris beneath the nail. The nail may well disintegrate and ultimately fall off totally, or it might grow to be so thick that it is extremely painful to put on shoes.
Hay fever allergies, also identified as respiratory allergies surprising impacts of the children in America. To ones surprise, hay fever allergies are seldom connected to hay or lead to a fever, nor does a virus induce hay fever allergies. With the staggering percentage of children becoming affected by allergies, healthcare understanding of how to treat hay fever and respiratory allergies remains limited.
Read More – Siler City Community Health Center
Toenail fungus, also recognized by the term onychomycosis, is an ordinary situation that disfigures and even demolishes the toenail. The huge toe and the little toe are the nails that are most likely to be affected by toenail fungus. This condition is brought on by any one of the many varieties of fungi that create in moist and warm surroundings, particularly in the shoes. As they rise, they invade and feed on the protein that creates really hard surface of the toenail.
Toenail fungus turns to be a chronic condition, and if it is not aching, a number of people do not get treatment. On the other hand, to treat toenail fungus, persons with unrelieved illness like diabetes must see a doctor if they become aware of alterations in their nails as it might be an indication of much more severe challenges. If the nail turn out to be very thick and it is hard to put on shoes and one particular really feel pain even though walking then a single really should check out a medical doctor.
1 could notice stinking debris under the nail.
The nail can be filed down and trimmed cautiously, either at residence or by a podiatrist. If the infection is gentle and a great deal localized then to treat toenail fungus a medical professional may well suggest a medicated nail polish containing either Loceryl or Loprox. If the infection persists or carry on spreading then a doctor may perhaps prescribe an oral, systemic anti-fungal medication such as Sporanox or Lamisil. The remedy may requires about 12 weeks. Both of these drugs have some quite harmful effects that could not be suitable for some folks.
If your child has been diagnosed with respiratory allergies, there are quite a couple of issues you can do in your home to enable minimize the symptoms. Eliminating as considerably dust and pollen from inside the home can make a significant difference in the severity of allergy attacks. It's not just the dust you see in the air or on desktops that causes difficulty. There is also dust hiding in carpets, furniture and bedding.
Read More – Planned Parenthood Prevention Park Family Planning Health Center Houston Tx
If a fungal infection turns into scratchy, it is enough to look for medical therapy so that a medical professional will examine the toenail and could take modest samples. The nail can be scrutinized for fungi or some other infection under a microscope in the lab. Each time these antibodies recognize the same invading allergens histamine is released into the bloodstream causing irritating hay fever, respiratory allergies symptoms. There are two main sorts of allergies: seasonal allergies (spring via fall) and perennial allergies (all-year long).
Toenail fungus is unusual in young children, having said that, the probabilities becomes much more as one's age increases. About 48% of people today in the United States have at least one toe impacted by the time they are 70 years of age The uncomfortable tight fitting footwear and layers of nail polish enhances the danger of escalating toenail fungus. It can also spread individual-to-person in public regions, such as locker rooms and showers. Getting a chronic condition that have an effect on a circulation, such as diabetes or HIV also enhances your threat. The impacted nail will become stained and will turn extremely thick and overgrown. A single may notice stinking debris beneath the nail. The nail may possibly disintegrate and in the end fall off totally, or it may well turn into so thick that it is pretty painful to wear shoes.
Brookside Community Health Center – Possessing a chronic situation that have an impact on a circulation, such as diabetes or HIV also enhances your danger. The affected nail will come to be stained and will turn quite thick and overgrown.
The 7th edition of the India Machine Tools Show (IMTOS) 2017 was held from July 28–31, 2017 at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi, India. Organized by K and D Communication Ltd., the India Machine Tools Show, is one of the leading trade shows covering 40 sectors of the machine tool industry.
The 7th edition of the India Machine Tools Show (IMTOS) 2017 was held from July 28–31, 2017 at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi, India.
(Source: IMTOS)
Business ideas for manufacturing sector
IMTOS offered a launch pad for new ideas, products and services and a platform for forging joint ventures and collaborations within the manufacturing sector. The event catered to different areas of interest such as machine tools, cutting tools, automation, material handling, electrical, hydraulics, gears, motors, drives, welding equipment and more.
More than 20+ countries have participated in the event since 2007. This year, the show also witnessed visitors from countries such as the USA, Germany, Korea, New Zealand, Taiwan, China, UAE, Turkey, Italy, Spain, etc.,
Delhi has always been the marketplace of several industries over the years and has also been contributing to India’s industrial growth, which makes it an important trade center, manufacturing & technology hub.
For more news visit our facebook page or twitter.
Subscribe to the newsletter now
Don't Miss out on Our Best Content
Business E-mail
Please enter a valid mailadress.
Subscribe
By clicking on „Subscribe to Newsletter“ I agree to the processing and use of my data according to the consent form (please expand for details) and accept the Terms of Use. For more information, please see our Privacy Policy.
Unfold for details of your consent
Stand vom 23.03.2021
Naturally, we always handle your personal data responsibly. Any personal data we receive from you is processed in accordance with applicable data protection legislation. For detailed information please see our privacy policy.
Consent to the use of data for promotional purposes
I hereby consent to Vogel Communications Group GmbH & Co. KG, Max-Planckstr. 7-9, 97082 Würzburg including any affiliated companies according to §§ 15 et seq. AktG (hereafter: Vogel Communications Group) using my e-mail address to send editorial newsletters. A list of all affiliated companies can be found here
Newsletter content may include all products and services of any companies mentioned above, including for example specialist journals and books, events and fairs as well as event-related products and services, print and digital media offers and services such as additional (editorial) newsletters, raffles, lead campaigns, market research both online and offline, specialist webportals and e-learning offers. In case my personal telephone number has also been collected, it may be used for offers of aforementioned products, for services of the companies mentioned above, and market research purposes.
In case I access protected data on Internet portals of Vogel Communications Group including any affiliated companies according to §§ 15 et seq. AktG, I need to provide further data in order to register for the access to such content. In return for this free access to editorial content, my data may be used in accordance with this consent for the purposes stated here.
Right of revocation
I understand that I can revoke my consent at will. My revocation does not change the lawfulness of data processing that was conducted based on my consent leading up to my revocation. One option to declare my revocation is to use the contact form found at https://support.vogel.de. In case I no longer wish to receive certain newsletters, I have subscribed to, I can also click on the unsubscribe link included at the end of a newsletter. Further information regarding my right of revocation and the implementation of it as well as the consequences of my revocation can be found in the data protection declaration, section editorial newsletter.
(ID:44850957)
Related content
Mobility Solutions
New Brand of Hitachi Astemo Debuts at Auto Shanghai 2021
Automation
The strategy of innovation-driven development
FOLLOW US ON:
Cookie-Manager General Terms & Conditions Help Customer Center Media Privacy Imprint Editors
Copyright © 2022 Vogel Communications Group
This portal is a brand of Vogel Communications Group. You will find our complete range of products and services on www.vogel.com
