Research for Prevention and Treatment of NSAIDs Related Gastrointestinal Side Effects - Full Text View - ClinicalTrials.gov
Research for Prevention and Treatment of NSAIDs Related Gastrointestinal Side Effects
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01547559
Verified October 2014 by Xinxin Huang, Sun Yat-sen University.
Xinxin Huang, Sun Yat-sen University
We aim to evaluate the protective effects of eradication of HP and continue using Geranylgeranylacetone (GGA) on NSAIDs related gastroenterological lesions. We further aim to explore the effect of GGA on small-intestinal mucosal injuries induced by diclofenac sodium in patients with rheumatic diseases who didn't take NSAIDs in the preceding 6 months.
Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drug Adverse Reaction Drug: part1:teprenone Drug: part1:EAC-T Drug: part1:EA-EMC-T Drug: part2:GGA group Not Applicable
NSAIDs are mainly used drugs in rheumatic disease and cardiologic disease. However the gastroenterological lesions prevent patients get benefits from continuing taking NSAIDs. HP is another important factor that increase gastroenterological lesions. Both HP and NSAIDs increase risk of peptic ulcers, however, no exact relation between these two factors has been found. It is important to evaluate the protective effects of eradication of HP in NSAIDs-taking patients. In many countries ,PPI is recommended as maintain treatment in NSAIDs-taking patients to prevent gastroenterological lesions. A multicenter, open-label, randomized, parallel-group study is needed to prove the effects of Teprenone as a replacer of PPI in maintain treatment.On the other hand, Small-intestinal mucosal injuries induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are common. However, there are still no effective and reliable interventions established. Geranylgeranylacetone (GGA) is a mucosal protective agent, so we develop an additional trail to clarify the discrepancies of GGA effects on NSAIDs-induced small-intestinal mucosal injuries.
Official Title: Evaluation of Preventive and Treatment Effects of Hp Eradication and Teprenone in Patients Taking NSAIDs
No Intervention: part1:blank control
NO maintain drugs with Hp negative patients.
Experimental: part1:teprenone 1
maintain treatment with Teprenone for Hp negative patients
Drug: part1:teprenone
Teprenone 50mg tid after meal for Hp negative patients.
Other Name: teprenone treatment
Experimental: part1:EAC-T
eradication of Hp with triple treatment
Drug: part1:EAC-T
esomeprazole 20 mg, amoxicillin 1 g, and clarithromycin 500 mg, each twice daily followed by gastric mucosal protective therapy with teprenone 50mg three times daily for 11 weeks
Other Name: EAC-T treatment
Experimental: part1:EA-EMC-T
eradication of Hp with sequential therapy
Drug: part1:EA-EMC-T
esomeprazole 20 mg plus amoxicillin 1 g, twice daily for 5 days, then esomeprazole 20 mg with clarithromycin 500 mg and metronidazole 500 mg, twice daily for another 5 consecutive days) followed by teprenone 50mg three times daily until 12 weeks
Other Name: EA-EMC-T treatment
Active Comparator: part1:T-T
Teprenone as maintain drugs for Hp positive patients
Teprenone 50mg tid after meal for Hp positive patients.
Other Name: T-T treatment
Experimental: part2:GGA group
Geranylgeranylacetone plus diclofenac sodium for patients with rheumatic diseases
Drug: part2:GGA group
GGA 50mg three times daily plus diclofenac sodium 75mg once a day for patients with rheumatic diseases.
Other Name: GGA
No Intervention: part2:control group
diclofenac sodium only for patients with rheumatic diseases
part1:the total proportion of peptic ulcers after treatment [ Time Frame: 12 weeks ]
part2:Capsule endoscopy findings of small-intestinal mucosal injuries after treatment [ Time Frame: 12 weeks ]
part1:the development of gastroduodenal ulcers [ Time Frame: 12 weeks ]
part1:the healing rate of gastroduodenal ulcers [ Time Frame: 12 weeks ]
part1:the improvement of erosions [ Time Frame: 12 weeks ]
part2:capsule endoscopy (CE) Lewis Score after treatment [ Time Frame: 12 weeks ]
NSAIDs taking patients
not taking PPI or other digestive drugs during previous 1 months
age ranging from 18~80 years old
being treated with drugs influencing gastroenterological conditions.
poor compliance part2:
1.18 to 65 years of age 2.patients with rheumatic diseases such as ankylosing spondylitis , rheumatoid arthritis and undifferentiated arthritis 3.planning to take diclofenac sodium for at least 12 weeks 4.having freely been given their fully informed consent based on their full understanding
Patients were excluded if they had a history of peptic ulcer or gastrointestinal bleeding
had serious liver, kidney, heart, or lung disease
had suspected small-bowel obstruction
had a history of gastrointestinal surgery except for appendectomy
had a drug addiction or alcoholism; were pregnant or hoped to become pregnant during the study period
were taking anti-secretory drugs such as PPIs or H2 receptor antagonists (H2RA), or other gastric mucosal protective drugs
had a lack of consent to the surgery required if the capsule endoscope was retained in the body
were judged to be inappropriate for this study by the investigator
Please refer to this study by its ClinicalTrials.gov identifier (NCT number): NCT01547559
Guang zhou, Guangdong, China, 510008
Study Chair: Minhu Chen, MD PHD First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University
Xiong L, Huang X, Li L, Yang X, Liang L, Zhan Z, Ye Y, Chen M. Geranylgeranylacetone protects against small-intestinal injuries induced by diclofenac in patients with rheumatic diseases: a prospective randomized study. Dig Liver Dis. 2015 Apr;47(4):280-4. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.01.005. Epub 2015 Jan 20.
Emisphere Technologies Inc (OTC:EMIS) has announced that an independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) has informed Novartis and its partner Nordic Bioscience about their recommendation to proceed with the Osteoporosis (OP) Phase 3 study and the Osteoarthritis (OA) Phase 3 Study exploring the safety and efficacy of an oral formulation of salmon calcitonin to treat patients suffering with osteoporosis and osteoarthritis of the knee.
Emisphere is a biopharmaceutical company that focuses on the unique and improved delivery of therapeutic molecules or nutritional supplements using its proprietary Eligen Technology. The Eligen Technology can be applied to the oral route of administration as well as other delivery pathways such as buccal, rectal, inhalation, intra-vaginal or transdermal. These delivery agents facilitate and enable the transport of therapeutic macromolecules (such as proteins, peptides, and polysaccharides) and poorly absorbed small molecules across biological membranes, such as the small intestine.
This recommendation is based on an analysis of one year data for all patients enrolled in the study for the period of 12 months and also includes both an assessment of safety and efficacy parameters. Based on this interim analysis, DMC is of the opinion that there are no major or unexpected safety concerns and recommends proceeding with the studies to test the efficacy and safety profile of oral calcitonin at two years as planned.
Leave a comment!
Click here to cancel reply »
Add your comment below, or trackback from your own site. You can also subscribe to these comments via RSS.
Be nice. Keep it clean. Stay on topic. No spam.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website (optional)
You can use these tags:
<a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>
This is a Gravatar-enabled weblog. To get your own globally-recognized-avatar, please register at Gravatar.
Business News »
Stedesa’s FDA Decision Anticipated Soon (NASDAQ:SEPR)
Stedesa is a drug that has been developed by Sepracor Inc. (NASDAQ:SEPR). The company has already submitted the application – known as the New Drug Application (NDA) – for the approval of the United States …
More articles »
Personal Finance »
Freeze Your Communication Costs
Most families these days feel like they can barely make ends meet, never mind have anything left in their wallet to invest. The first step toward financial freedom is cutting expenses below your income. In …
"Daily exposure to blue wavelength light each morning helps to re-entrain the circadian rhythm so that people get better, more regular sleep. This is likely true for everybody, but we recently demonstrated it in people recovering from mild traumatic brain injury, or mTBI," said study lead author William D Scott Killgore from University of Arizona in the US.
"That improvement in sleep was translated into improvements in cognitive function, reduced daytime sleepiness and actual brain repair," Killgore added.
Mild traumatic brain injuries, or concussions, are often the result of falls, fights, car accidents and sports participation.
Headaches, attention problems and mental fogginess are commonly reported after head injuries and can persist for weeks or months for some people.
April 2014 | HCPLive
Despite Risk for Criticism, Render Your Clinical Opinion
As internists, the best product we can offer to patients is our opinion derived from clinical experience and education.
David J. Herman, MD, FACP, Senior Partner at ID Care in New Jersey, discusses strategies for the diagnosis and treatment of Lyme disease and other tick-borne infections.
Normalizing Blood Pressure May Prevent a Second Stroke
Although many clinicians presumed patients with poor collateral blood vessel formation near their stroke site should have their blood pressure left high to prevent a second stroke, a study published in Neurology found lowering blood pressure to normal levels reduces subsequent stroke risk more effectively.
High-Dose Multivitamins Do Not Reduce Cardiovascular Events After Heart Attack
A recent study found high-dose multivitamins and minerals taken after myocardial infarction do not significantly reduce subsequent cardiovascular events.
Autoimmune Diseases Frequently Co-occur with Epilepsy
A new retrospective study suggests that patients with autoimmune disorders should be monitored for epilepsy, and vice versa.
'All or None' Switch in Brain Determines Epileptic Seizure Severity
Yale University researchers have found a single "switch" in the brains of patients with epilepsy that determines whether an epileptic seizure will be mild or trigger a dangerous, debilitating loss of consciousness.
Contrary to Marketing Claims, E-Cigarettes Do Not Aid in Smoking Cessation
The use of electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) is not associated with greater rates of smoking cessation or reduced cigarette consumption after 1 year.
Accounting for Age Rules Out Pulmonary Embolism in Elderly Patients
Considering a patient's age in an abnormal pulmonary embolism test result can lead to fewer misdiagnoses in healthy individuals.
Male Infertility Is Not Just a Question of Reproduction
Assisted reproductive technology (ART) has increased steadily since the mid-1970s. However, the number of male reproductive evaluative procedures has fallen, which suggests that many couples bypass the exam and go directly to ART.
Vitamin D Supplements Do Not Reduce Depression
An analysis of clinical trials revealed vitamin D supplements are not associated with reduced depression, according to a study published in Psychosomatic Medicine.
Big Government, Good Neighbors Positively Impact Behavioral Health
There is a correlation between behavioral health and high levels of liberalism and social trust, according to the findings of a study published in Social Science & Medicine.
Best-practice Models for Alzheimer's Disease Require Primary Care Redesign
Adopting new best-practice approaches to dementia care would decrease caregiver burden, rule out onerous treatments, and improve the quality of care for older adults with Alzheimer's disease, but the current primary care structure is an obstacle to implementation.
Motrin Infants' Ibuprofen Oral Suspension Concentrated Drops Berry Fla – First Care Pharmacy
Motrin Infants' Ibuprofen Oral Suspension Concentrated Drops Berry Flavour 30 ml
For babies ages 6 months to 23 months.
Features: Fights fever and pain in childrenContains 40 mg ibuprofen per 1 mLReduces fever for up to 8 hoursFights pain from teething, cold and cough, immunization, and scrapes and sprainsNon-staining Dye-Free Berry flavourFormulated for infants 4 months to 2 years or 23 lb30 mL bottle
Temporarily: relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold, flu, sore throat, headaches and toothaches, teething and immunization reduces fever
Medicinal Ingredients: 40 mg of Ibuprofen per 1 mL
Non-Medicinal Ingredients: Citric acid, corn starch, flavour, glycerin, polysorbate 80, purified water, sodium benzoate, sorbitol, sucrose, xanthan gum.
Caution: Stomach bleeding
warning: This product may cause stomach bleeding.
Symptoms may include: feeling faint, vomiting blood, bloody or black stools. The chance of stomach bleeding is higher if your child: has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems, takes a blood thinner or steroid drug, takes with other drugs containing an NSAID like acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), ibuprofen, naproxen, or prescription anti-infammatory drugs.
Allergy alert: Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to ASA. Stop use and get medical help right away if your child has severe itching, hives, swelling of eyes and mouth, skin blisters/rash, difficulty breathing, shock.
Do not use if your child is: taking ibuprofen or ASA, allergic to ibuprofen, ASA, salicylates, NSAIDs, or any of the inactive ingredients in this product, right before or after heart surgery.
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have a child that has: ulcers or stomach bleeding, high blood pressure, asthma, heart disease, diabetes, liver or kidney disease is under a doctors care for any other serious condition, takes any other medication especially daily low-dose ASA (81 to 325 mg),anticoagulants or corticosteroids, is dehydrated (significant fluid loss) due to continued vomiting, diarrhea or lack of fluid intake.
When using this product: take with food or milk if upset stomach occurs, the risk of heart attack or stroke may increase if your child uses more than directed or for longer than directed. Stop use and ask a doctor if: your child has signs of stomach bleeding (see Stomach bleeding warning above), pain gets worse or lasts for more than 5 days, fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days, any new symptoms occur. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, call a Poison Control Centre or get medical help right away. Read peel back label for important information before use. Do not use if carton is open or if carton tape or bottle wrap is broken or missing. Child resistant package. Store at 15 to 30C.Should you require consultation with a pharmacist, you may contact our Well.ca Pharmacist. Please read the label, warnings and inserts provided by the manufacturer and consult your healthcare professional when purchasing medications or natural health products to be sure the product is right for you.
Latest News for: wellness (alternative medicine)
These sessions will include self-defense techniques; hands-on nutrition tips; how to interact with a loved one who has dementia; alternative medicine; and chair yoga ... "In the Zen Room, you'll find knowledgeable professionals to talk about alternative medicine, essential oils, hormone therapy, yoga and wellness, chiropractic care and more," Martin said ... "Be sure to find BWA's gift basket drawing table in the Wellness Zone," Martin said....
The lawsuit focused on the most well-known product from Goop, Jade and Rose Quartz Eggs, which are still available for purchase ... The lawsuit has sparked discourse about alternative medicine and "wellness" products in general. Some see wellness companies like Goop as a result of misogyny in traditional medicine, in which women's health concerns are sometimes dismissed or ignored....
Wellness event to discuss non-narcotic pain treatment alternatives
The Athens Messenger 05 Sep 2018
... treatments and alternatives to medicine will be discussed by Dr....
Functional Medicine, is it the Future of Health Care?
We are good at making things that are old new again, creating care that is care not only for those that are ill, but care for those that are healthy." Susan Turley, President at DHR, is the brainchild behind the Wellness Institute, and because of a team effort, there is an alternative to traditional medicine ... thy medicine and medicine be thy food."....
as medicine; in countless health/wellness supplements; and as a non-toxic, non-addictive, benign alternative to the recreational consumption of alcohol and nicotine ... With cannabinoids being natural substances that are produced in the human body, cannabinoid-based medicines are especially safe and well-tolerated ... Cannabinoid-based medicines have the potential to revolutionize the global pharmaceutical industry....
15, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- True Leaf Medicine International Ltd ... Kramer, a vocal advocate for the research and therapeutic use of cannabis for animals, is the Medical Director at the VCA-Canada Vancouver Animal Wellness Hospital and has been practicing veterinary medicine for 16 years. She became interested in alternative treatment early in her career, blending herbs and acupuncture with Western medicine to promote optimal health....
Notice the red spots on American swimmer Michael Phelps back? You can see similar spots on the backs of Hollywood celebs like Jennifer Aniston and Justin Bieber, not to speak of several Olympians. These spots are a result of what is called 'cupping' or Hijama ... Dr Jampa Yonten, of the Tibetan Healing and Wellness Centre, Koramangala, says, "I have been a cupping practitioner for 25 years ... Caution ... - Dry ... Wellness. alternate medicine. ....
— Abigail Casey of Glens Falls received her Bachelor of Science degree in wellness and alternative medicine when she graduated from Johnson State College on May 19....
6 Stowe residents earn Johnson State degrees
Gabrielle Baraby, bachelor's degree in wellness and alternative medicine. William Gaeckle, bachelor's degree in professional studies ... .......
35 earn degrees at Johnson State
Emily Fisher, bachelor's degree in professional studies; Roy Karros, bachelor's degree in biology; Rachel Nieckarz, bachelor's degree in wellness and alternative medicine; Ashley Slayton, bachelor of fine arts in creative writing; Anna Wadlington, master's degree in education ... Allison Compagna, bachelor's degree in wellness and alternative medicine; ......
A rare combination of advanced facilities, skilled doctors, and low cost of treatment have made India a popular hub of medical tourism, attracting a large number of foreign patients every year. The total number of such visitors in 2017 was 4.95 lakh, Minister of State for Tourism (Independent Charge) K.J ... The number declined to 55,681 in 2017 ... India also enjoyed high credibility in wellness, preventive, and alternative medicine .......
Canada is still a few months from the legal date but California is well into it since January 1, 2018 ... wellness formula and sleep formula ... The RISE Report on Cannabis and Sexual Health and Wellness ... "Wellness" has become one of the leading consumer trends, with categories from physical fitness to alternative medicine and emotional self-care growing exponentially in consumer awareness, priority, and sales....
... West Africa Traditional and Alternative Medicine awards 2018 ... Each year, the traditional and alternative medicine award recognises individuals and companies that play significant role in health and wellness in Ghana ....
Jul 30, 2014, 08:30 ET from Access Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
DALLAS and NEW YORK, July 30, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- ACCESS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. (OTCBB: ACCP), a developer of new products for oncology supportive care, announced that its novel product for oral mucositis, MuGard®, has been featured in an article on OncLive.com titled, "Study Finds Mouth Rinse Alleviates Oral Mucositis Symptoms in Head and Neck Cancers." Dr. Steve Sonis, a leading expert in oral mucositis, provides insight on the growing demand seen in the oncology community for evidence-based strategies for the debilitating anticancer regimen side effect.
About MuGard: MuGard® Mucoadhesive Oral Wound Rinse is indicated for the management of oral mucositis/stomatitis (that may be caused by radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy) and all types of oral wounds (mouth sores and injuries), including aphthous ulcers/canker sores and traumatic ulcers, such as those caused by oral surgery or ill-fitting dentures or braces. MuGard is available by prescription only and is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation. MuGard received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and is marketed by AMAG Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the United States. MuGard is also licensed in China with RHEI/Jian An, and in Korea with Hamni Pharmaceuticals.
Your pet's dental health is a part of his/her healthy foundation. Gingivitis and periodontal disease are a reality for your pet as much as they are for you!
Periodontal disease doesn't just affect your pets teeth, gums and the deterioration of the jaw bone, it impacts their entire general health.
The bacteria that is present with dental disease cir­culates through the blood stream and can cause damage to the heart, kidneys and liver.
Read more
Truffles or Toxicity?
By Irene Choi, DVM
Here in the Puget Sound Region there are plenty of forests with thick layers of built-up decaying debris and in our climate of almost constant moisture in the spring and fall mushrooms can proliferate. Some mushrooms are a delicacy such as Truffles and Chanterelles and many people seek them out in the woods, however others can be poisonous. These poisonous mushrooms can appear in your yard growing below piles of leaves or under bushes where you won’t see them readily. There are many types of mushrooms and they can cause different types of symptoms that can start appearing within 30 minutes of ingestion up to 3-4 hours after ingestion. The most severe mushroom toxicity can cause liver, kidney, and heart disease and lead to death. Less severe mushroom poisonings can cause neurological symptoms such as seizures, tremors, hallucinations. Many toxic mushrooms can cause hypersalivation (drooling), miosis (pinpoint pupils), bradycardia (decreased heart rates), lacrimation (excessive tearing), vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps, and respiratory distress.
Read more
Summer Safety
Authored By: Sarah Kenne, LVT
Summer is officially here, and many people are spending time in the great outdoors with their pets. Long after winter holiday decorations have been packed away and bright, spring candies have been eaten, warm weather outings bring a new set of safety concerns for pet owners.
Read more
Parvovirus Enteritis
Authored By: Kathryn R. Krueger, DVM
What is Parvovirus?
Parvovirus is a highly contagious disease spread by the fecal material of affected animals. The virus infects the walls of the intestines, causing the interior lining of the intestines to slough. It is a serious disease, and can be over 90% fatal if untreated. It causes vomiting, diarrhea (which is often bloody), lethargy (depression), pain, and life threatening dehydration.
Read more
« first
‹ previous
1
2
3
4
next ›
last »
Search
Search this site:
The materials offered on this website are intended for educational purposes only. All CreaturesAnimal Hospital does not provide veterinary medical services or guidance via the Internet. Please consult your pet's veterinarian in matters regarding the care of your animals.
Does Intermittent Fasting Cause Acne
Comments Off on Does Intermittent Fasting Cause Acne
Alternate day fasting is a hot topic. There's some evidence that short periods of fasting could not only be a way to lose weight but also be potentially good for your.
Not only can it lessen a woman's chance of having children, symptoms include hirsutism, acne, weight gain. As weight loss and management is key, Quirke suggests that intermittent fasting – such as the 5:2 diet – is a good option for.
Going gluten-free is only medically necessary for the 1 per cent of Americans – and 1 per cent of Kiwis – who have been diagnosed with celiac disease, an autoimmune disorder where ingestion of gluten causes. advocates say.
I've been trying to solve a few health riddles lately, including insomnia and baby fat on my mid-section that won't budge. A lot of people like to tout intermittent.
That need to purify ourselves explains the appeal of the juice cleanse, a program that involves subsisting. the short term — and there are some interesting benefits to intermittent fasting — but cutting calories can be done cheaply, simply,
"You eat bad food that damages your gut and causes chronic inflammations. Research has proved that intermittent fasting regenerates stem cells, reduces insulin-growth factor, and increases breaking down fats , all of which kill cancer.
In recent years, numerous studies have suggested that intermittent fasting – abstaining or reducing food and drink intake periodically – can be good for us, making it.
The latest diet craze to hit the world is the Fast Diet, also known as the 5:2 Diet or the Intermittent Fasting (IF) Diet. The basic principle of this diet is to eat normally for five days and semi-fast for two days of a week. Does it work or is it.
Then you eat, ghrelin goes down, and so hunger goes away. But, when you consume sugar, fructose does not get registered by the brain as you having eaten. Ghrelin doesn't change. You stay hungry. And it's not just sugar that can.
How it works is simple. You ONLY consume water for days on end, news.com.au reports. It differs – and not in a good way – to intermittent fasting (which is claimed to have a number of benefits), and is more like prolonged starvation given.
2 Tbsp Extra Virgin Olive Oil Calories The F Factor Diet Reviews BackgroundChronic kidney disease (CKD) associated with type 2 diabetes is the leading cause of kidney failure, with both inflammation and oxidative stress. This extremely helpful guide, called the "Fatty Liver Diet Guide" is an ebook that deals with every aspect and ramification of being diagnosed with fatty liver. Find MTS
Dr. Williams explores in depth the benefits and dangers associated with fasting.
The F Factor Diet Reviews BackgroundChronic kidney disease (CKD) associated with type 2 diabetes is the leading cause of kidney failure, with both inflammation and oxidative stress. This extremely helpful guide, called the "Fatty Liver Diet Guide" is an ebook that deals with every aspect and ramification of being diagnosed with fatty liver. Find MTS Drop Factor powerhouse thermogenic fat
Proven Premenstrual Syndrome Pms And Diet Balanced diet Women who meet the recommended daily amount of iron in their diets may be less likely to get a more severe form of premenstrual syndrome (PMS), say US researchers. "Most previous studies of PMS have focused on. Depending on its symptoms and severity, PMS or premenstrual syndrome can be treated in several ways.
The treatment of pancreatic cancer is tailored to each individual and may consist of surgery, precision cancer medicines, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. The specific treatment can depend on the stage and genomic profile of the cancer. Optimal treatment will often require more than one therapeutic approach and is likely to involve several different types of physicians. These physicians may include a gastroenterologist, a surgeon, a medical oncologist, a radiation oncologist, or other specialists. Care must be carefully coordinated between the various treating physicians.
Surgery for cancer of the pancreas is performed in order to remove the cancer and learn additional information about the cancer. Surgery can be performed with curative intent for some patients with earlier stage cancers localized to the pancreas. Patients with more-advanced cancer may undergo surgery for reduction of symptoms and prevention of obstruction of the bile duct. Obstruction of the bile duct is a common complication of pancreatic cancer that may lead to jaundice (a yellow discoloration of the skin). Less frequently, surgery is performed to treat or prevent obstruction of the stomach outlet. Learn more about surgery here.
Radiation therapy is an important treatment modality for patients with advanced pancreatic cancer, but is rarely used alone. Optimal treatment of patients with pancreatic cancer often requires more than one therapeutic approach. Radiation therapy is usually given with chemotherapy, which can improve the average duration of survival for patients with localized and locally advanced disease. Learn about radiation therapy.
Gemzar® (gemcitabine)2
Onivyde™ (irinotecan liposome injection)3
Eloxatin® (oxaliplatin)4
Abraxane® (nab-paclitaxel)5
Xeloda (capecitabine)6
The purpose of precision cancer medicine is to define the genomic alterations in the cancers DNA that are driving that specific cancer. Precision cancer medicine utilizes molecular diagnostic testing, including DNA sequencing, to identify cancer-driving abnormalities in a cancer's genome. Once a genetic abnormality is identified, a specific targeted therapy can be designed to attack a specific mutation or other cancer-related change in the DNA programming of the cancer cells. Precision cancer medicine uses targeted drugs and immunotherapies engineered to directly attack the cancer cells with specific abnormalities, leaving normal cells largely unharmed. Precision medicines are just beginning to undergo evaluation in pancreatic cancer and patients should ask their doctor about whether testing is appropriate. Learn about precision cancer medicines.
3 Burris HA III, Moore MJ, Andersen J, et al. Improvements in survival and clinical benefit with gemcitabine as first-line therapy for patients with advanced pancreas cancer: A randomized trial. J Clin Oncol1997;15:2403-2413.http://news.cancerconnect.com/onivyde-approved-for-pancreatic-cancer/
4 http://news.cancerconnect.com/in-advanced-pancreatic-cancer-eloxatin-with-folinic-acid-and-fluorouracil-may-improve-survival/
