Having a family dog is great for children. Well, actually, it’s great for everyone in the home, but I’m a little biased. Growing up with a dog teaches children love, responsibility, respect and compassion. Often, a family dog is a child’s first friend. Now, one comprehensive study is proving that having a dog in the family can reduce a kid’s risk of asthma by 15 percent and regular contact with farm animals can cut the risk in half.
If you have kids, you can understand the “hygiene hypothesis,” which suggests that living in too-clean conditions early on in life can increase your susceptibility to certain allergy conditions like asthma. When you have a child it is hard to let him play in the dirt, crawl on a floor that hasn’t been properly sanitized, or watch him put anything into his mouth that you haven’t completely sterilized yourself. I’m a parent. I understand this.
The hygiene hypothesis suggests that overprotective parents who do not let their child get exposed to some of the most common dirt and germs aren’t doing their child any favors. If kids have a small amount of exposure to these germs and bacteria when they are young, their body learns to build a tolerance to them. It suggests that being exposed to these things early in life will help a child’s immune system develop to a stronger level.
Scientists working on a new Swedish study analyzed data on more than 1 million children between 2001 and 2010. All the children in the study were born in Sweden, where dog and farm animal ownership must be registered by law. The study found that canine exposure during the first year of life was associated with a 15 percent lower probability of developing childhood asthma. Living with regular exposure to farm animals cut the risk by 52 percent.
Dr. Tove Fall, the leading scientist on the study, says that earlier studies have also shown a similar link to farm animals and the reduced risk of asthma. He said that the researchers on this project were curious to see if the same correlation was true for children growing up with canines in their home. The results confirmed the farm animal effect and proved the effects of early exposure to canines to be positive as well.
Dr. Fall also says that because the researchers had such a large and detailed data set to work with, they were able to account for many confounding variables like area of residence, asthma in parents and socio-economic status. The research was made possible thanks to Sweden’s organized system of national databases that are accessible to scientists. Every prescription and specialist physician visit is recorded. The research for this study was published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics.
“Asthma is a complex condition with many different types and causes. While this study identifies a link to living with a dog or regular exposure to farm animals in the first year of a child’s life, and their chance of developing asthma by the age of six, more research is needed. This will help us better understand the effects so that it can be turned into practical advice for parents of young children.”
Although the results of the study can only be generalized to the Swedish population, and possibly other European populations with similar cultural standards for pet ownership and farming, this study will hopefully pave the way for more research related to its findings. With the increase of feline and canine allergies and other respiratory diseases like asthma on the rise, it would be nice to find out if there is a correlation between the development of these conditions and the presence of animals in early years.
Learn more about our emergency preparedness initiativeLifespan wins 21st Century Award for Rapid Emergency Satellite CommunicationsFind out moreRhode Island Hospital received a $5 million emergency preparedness grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in 2007. The hospital was chosen from a field of 40 applicants and was one of only five in the country to be selected for the 2007 Healthcare Facilities Emergency Care Partnership Program.The three-year grant was designed to ensure that the state of Rhode Island's emergency medical system had the ability to receive, treat and respond to a disaster or a mass casualty event. As a national demonstration project, Rhode Island Hospital and Lifespan shared best practices with other health systems to further strengthen and enhance emergency planning and preparedness throughout the country.The three parts to this program:A Patient Tracking System
An electronic patient tracking system built upon the current web-based Hospital Capacity System, which is used by hospitals around Rhode island. This new system was installed in a dozen communities covering half of the daily EMS runs each day. It was used daily or during disaster events to track the availability of hospital beds throughout the state.Wireless laptops, associated software and wireless connectivity were installed in the state's emergency transport vehicles for the tracking of all patients involved in daily events to major disasters. The tracking system gave hospitals crucial extra minutes in preparing for a surge in patients. Proper patient tracking was identified as an area to be addressed following The Station nightclub fire. The funding from this grant brought the state closer to meeting these recommendations.Emergency Communications Mobile Units (Rapid Emergency Satellite Communications or RESCQ) for Each Hospital Coordinated by Lifespan, these mobile, innovative communications solutions provided complete voice and data communications capability through a direct satellite link. All equipment needed, including a generator, was enclosed in a reinforced, wheeled laundry cart. These systems are capable of being set up and made operational in about 30 minutes by non-technical staff or volunteers.The 22 systems were deployed at 14 hospitals, the RI Department of Health, RI Emergency Management Agency, Disaster Medical Assistance Team, Providence Emergency Management Agency, Lifespan Office of Emergency Preparedness and two units were set aside to send out as needed in emergency situations. The system has 10 phones, 2 laptops and 5 handheld radios to support voice and data users in the event that the communication infrastructure fails. Other laptops were connected wirelessly within a certain perimeter.The RESCQ handheld radios are compatible with public safety portable radio systems. The need for and importance of a system such as this became more apparent following Hurricane Katrina when hospitals in New Orleans had no ability to communicate with outside agencies.National Incident Management System (NIMS) Compliance The program helped to aid all the state's hospitals in completing federally-required NIMS activities. Rhode Island Hospital hired a full-time NIMS manager and a team of trainers to help hospitals reach compliance. When this had been achieved, hospitals and all emergency responders around the country were able to share a common language when communicating during a disaster. More about Rhode Island Hospital
FIS - Worldnews - Research project explores feed's role in farmed fish parasite control
This antiparasitic technology has been used for several years with good success in large animals reducing medicated dependence
Monday, September 16, 2019, 22:50 (GMT + 9)
A new GBP 300,000 study involving University of Stirling experts and a leading animal feed manufacturer is aiming to explore how certain feed ingredients can reduce infections in farmed fish.
Denis Brinicombe Group feed plant
Principal Investigator, Dr Armin Sturm, Senior Lecturer at the IoA, said: "I am very excited about this project, which will allow us to assess the effectiveness of specific feed ingredients in preventing sea lice infections. While some of the veterinary drugs used to control sea lice can affect other marine organisms and may accumulate in marine sediments, the novel product tested here is non-toxic and short-lived in the environment."
Dr Armin Sturm, of the Institute of Aquaculture at Stirling, will lead the new study in collaboration with the Denis Brinicombe Group
Sea lice infections can adversely affect farmed fish performance by reducing appetite and growth, and compromising the animal's immune responses, potentially leading to secondary infections. Sea lice infections thus have an adverse effect on productivity and animal welfare and may also lead to wider environmental impacts.
Dr Sturm will work alongside a wider IoA team, including Professor James Bron and Professor Brett Glencross, on the project.
Two Facts Individuals Do Not Really Know About LASIK Eye Medical Procedure
March 13, 2018, 9:04 pm / felixcysk556.tinyblogging.com
Alternatively, the examination of the structural part of the eye may be made in numerous ways. Tension within the eyeball is determined by a "tonometer." In certain illness, especially in glaucoma, the stress in the eyeball is increased markedly.
However, it ought to be well kept in mind that a client with an eye issue might have other issues too. Typically other physical conditions are primary and affect the eye as a repercussion. The appearance of the eye can inform the doctor and the patient to problems in some disruptions of other parts of the body even before other symptoms provide themselves.
One's dependence on sight is stressed when one deals with a momentary or possible irreversible loss of this important sense. When restorative procedures are sought, particular kinds of vision correction such as contact lenses or spectacles are prescribed.
Basically, LASIK eye surgery is the short-term for "Laser-Assisted In Situ Keratomileusis." Like its useful source tangible counterpart, LASIK eye surgical treatment is another form of vision correction. The only distinction is that with this kind of surgery, one's vision is fixed completely.
Amidst the growing appeal of LASIK eye surgical treatment, there are still disadvantages that people should understand. Most likely, the primary reason this kind of eye surgery my review here has actually become well accepted is since the majority of its cases had succeeded.
In other words, a easy error might almost cause an individual's lifetime blindness. It is important to think about lots of factors before deciding whether LASIK eye surgical treatment is the best restorative procedure one has to undergo.
LASIK eye surgical treatment might remedy your vision but it does not necessarily indicate that it can give you a twenty-twenty. Even if statistical reports reveal that 70% of the patients might have 20/20 vision, this does not necessarily imply they have perfect vision.
Provided all these things, it can be deduced that, in spite of the popularity of the operation, LASIK may not constantly be this article the ideal eye surgery the way many people view it
Conversely, the assessment of the structural part of the eye may be made in a number of ways. It ought to be well remembered that a client with an eye problem might have other issues. Typically other physical conditions are primary and impact the eye as a repercussion. The look of the eye can signal the doctor and the client to problems in some disturbances of other parts of the body even prior to other symptoms present themselves.
Would you like to find out the truth about the Anointed Nutrition SMILE formulation and is it really one of the best formulations for relieving stress without having to take side-effects inducing drugs or products? As more and more people around the world start to feel symptoms of depression, they are increasingly looking for products such as anti-depressants or anything they can get their hands on to improve their mental health. However, through our experiences with using many of the formulations out there, we have found that the majority of them are of really poor quality and do not live up to their claims.
This was why we too were initially very skeptical about trying Anointed Nutrition SMILE. But given the many positive reviews that we have heard from close associates, we decided to give it a try, and the results have been nothing short of amazing. With no additives and being completely gluten-free, this formulation is able to provide anti-depression effects without many of the commonly associated side effects of medications and drugs.
Visit Anointed Nutrition SMILE Website
What Is The Main Ingredient Used In The Anointed Nutrition SMILE Formulation?
The main ingredient of this formulation is a sacred plant that is known for its mood enhancement benefits. This ingredient is called Kanna, a low-growing succulent herb found mainly in the southern parts of Africa. Kanna belongs to the Mesembryanthemaceae family and scientists refer to it as Sceletium Tortuosum. In fact, native tribes in Southern Africa have been known to perform different rituals such as the rite of passage using Kanna.
As more and more people find out about Kanna’s ability to ease anxiety, stress and depression symptoms and leading to more happiness, this herb has become increasingly popular and well-known around the world. Right now, it can be consumed in supplement form through a breakthrough formulation such as Anointed Nutrition SMILE.
What Are The Available Packages For Getting Anointed Nutrition SMILE?
Acquiring this formulation is available via the following 3 options:
Good Value – 1 Bottle – $69.97
Great Value – 3 Bottles – $149.91
Best Value – 6 bottles – $239.82
Each bottle lasts for 30 days, meaning that the smallest Good Value bottle is for 1 month, while the Great and Best Value bottles are for 3 and 6 months respectively. Every package comes with a dropper and the SMILE bottles, and they can be expected to arrive about 5 to 7 business days after order confirmation.
Taking this formulation is very simple. After taking out the bottle, one would have to take off the lid and pull out a couple of drops using the dropper. Then, the dropper can be taken inside the mouth with only a few drops placed under the tongue per dosage. Since this is a completely odourless liquid formulation, there are no feelings of unpleasantness when taking it throughout the course of taking it.
Review Verdict: Anointed Nutrition SMILE is a legitimate formulation that works
Visit Anointed Nutrition SMILE Website
Consumer Alert Regarding Anointed Nutrition SMILE
The success of Anointed Nutrition SMILE has given rise to many frauds who try to sell their own fake formulations in its name. This is a big issue as many customers have lost their money in buying from such fake sites. It is advised that customers should be really careful when they are purchasing and should do some research before they buy from any website. To spot these, watch out and avoid sites that claim to write about Anointed Nutrition SMILE, yet the write-up is completely garbage and unreadable as they are created by software and spammed all over the internet. It is always better to avoid buying from any other site other than the official one. Therefore, it is highly advised that consumers do careful research, or only buy from the site from the official website here – http://SMILE.AnointedNutrition.com/Official (link opens in a new window). The official website that they have includes the legitimate formulation.
» Borderline Personality
Instability in your emotions can be a result of borderline personality disorder. It is more than just being on an emotional roller coaster. It is a serious mental disorder characterized not only by mood swings but also unstable behavior and relationships. It may also be term emotional dysregulation disorder. Borderline personality disorder is a lack of control of your behavior due to your emotions. One moment you may be totally fine and the next, you can totally lose it. Doctors are still trying to figure out the causes. The symptom of borderline personality disorder varies. Although there is no cure for the disorder, there are treatments available.
Borderline Personality Disorder (BDP) has many different symptoms. In more severe cases people have psychotic episodes. They are also very susceptible to other disorders like depression and anxiety. Behavioral disorders like substance abuse or eating disorders may be common as well. Their reactions are very extreme. They tend to overreact to things.Their behavior is dangerous and impulsive. They just do things based on how they feel. Their feelings as it relates to their self-image can change daily. One day they can be completely comfortable in their skin and the next day they will like nothing about themselves. Their relationships are highly affected. Most of the time relationships with someone who has BDP do not turn out well.That person will go from being in love with someone to having an extreme dislike. These feelings become an unending pattern.
Other severe symptoms include self-harm or attempted suicide. Whenever a person with BDP is having a bad day or going through depressive emotions, they may cause harm to themselves; this is something that has to be monitored. Extreme emotions of anger also have the potential to be harmful. With them being so impulsive, they may do something that can harm others or themselves as well. Those with BDP may also deal with feelings of boredom and feel empty. Paranoia is also a problem for those with BDP. They may have what feels like an out of body experience or feel like they are not in touch with reality.
There are no specific causes of BPD. Genetics seem to play a role in the disorder. Some research points out that behavior and temperance are inherited. You often hear people make comments like you act just like your father or you have an attitude just like your mother. Although it may seem to be a joke, it is scientifically possible. Those with parents who have the disorder are more than likely to have it as well. The more family members with the disorder make likelihood go up. Your environment may also be a factor. Being in an unstable environment is a risk factor. The constant turmoil of unstable family relationships can result in an inability to control your emotions. Trauma may also result in BDP. Whenever you are a victim of sexual abuse, violence or crime, you can become emotionally scarred. This scarring may lead to BDP.
Nearly 1.6 percent of adults are diagnosed with BDP yearly. There is no specific test to diagnose BDP but a series of things. Unfortunately, BDP is under diagnosed. It also may be misdiagnosed as just anxiety, bipolar, or depression. Highly trained professionals diagnose BDP through a thorough exam. They evaluate symptoms as well as family history. The overlap of symptoms makes diagnosis difficult. Diagnosis is easier when the patient is totally honest about everything they are experiencing. Anxiety and eating disorders tend to affect women with BDP. Illnesses like arthritis, diabetes, and hypertension are also associated with BDP.
Treating Borderline Personality
The cure for BDP has not been found yet, but treatments have shown to be promising. Psychotherapy is very helpful. Talking through the problem may help those with BDP learn how to cope better and get control of their emotions. Medications may also assist with therapy. Medication can help treat the symptoms. Vitamins like omega- 3 fatty acids are used to treat symptoms and stabilize mood. Behavior therapy is another good method. Changing the behaviors or beliefs of those with BDP is crucial. It can help a person have a better self-image and not go through the constant highs and lows emotionally. Therapy can be in a group setting and also helpful for families. The best news is that through effective treatment, symptoms of BDP improves greatly.
Borderline Personality Disorder is a serious problem that is difficult to diagnose. BDP has symptoms that are also related to other mental disorders. Getting a thorough examination is important. A psychologist or psychiatrist are the best doctors to see to get a proper diagnosis. BDP is not something that has to be a constant source of suffering. Treatment is available. Getting the proper treatment can help you get control of your symptoms and control of your life.
May: Mental Health Awareness Month – Gilda's Club
Brianna Garcia-Meyers May 18, 2020
Awareness around mental health is important now more than ever. We are all experiencing anxiety and isolation, and now realizing its impact on our mental health. However, for those living with cancer, their families, friends, and caregivers, and those living with loss, they understand all too well the impact anxiety and isolation has on mental health.
For those impacted by cancer, Gilda's Club is here to help. We've created a guide of program offerings and outside resources to help you stay mentally strong while impacted by cancer.
Gilda's Club virtual program offerings:
Art Therapy – Mondays from 1:00pm – 2:30pm
For many of life's events there just aren't the words to express how we feel or fully communicate the depth of our experiences. That is where creativity and art enter the picture. During art therapy sessions, we use art as a means to explore emotions, gain self‐insight, have fun and seek creativity and connection through community.
Sign up for Art Therapy here
Art Therapy and Identity Through Art Journaling – Thursdays from 6:30pm – 8:00pm
Cancer brings life changes, shifts priorities, and challenges personal beliefs and values. Review and redefine your core identity with art journaling. A sketchbook will be crafted and a variety of art media and creative techniques will be explored.
Sign up for Art Therapy and Art Journaling
Art Therapy and Mindfulness – Wednesdays from 10:30am – 12:00pm
Mindfulness used with art can help us express ourselves through images in a way that cannot always be expressed through words.
Sign up for Art Therapy and Mindfulness
Gentle Yoga – Mondays from 9:30am – 10:30am
This gentle, slow-paced, and relaxing practice focuses on stretching all areas of the body while releasing stress and tension from joints and muscles.
Sign up for Gentle Yoga
Candlelight Yoga – Every other Tuesday, (May 19-June 30) from 5:30pm – 6:30pm
A soothing blend of slowly flowing deep stretches, mindful connection to the breath, and restorative postures followed by a guided meditation. Show yourself a little loving kindness by joining us for this special practice.
Sign up for Candlelight Yoga
Meditative Movements – Thursdays from 9:30am – 10:30am
Bring your fear, anxieties and worries to our upcoming online classes. We will explore the Meditative Movement™ technique which has been found to reduce anxiety, depression and fatigue while improving emotional and functional well-being per a 2017 University of Minnesota research study. The movements can be integrated into your daily routine and are adaptable to anyone's physical ability.
Sign up for Meditative Movements
"Each year millions of Americans face the reality of living with a mental illness. During May, NAMI joins the national movement to raise awareness about mental health. Each year we fight stigma, provide support, educate the public and advocate for policies that support people with mental illness and their families."
Visit and learn more about NAMI here
"Nearly 450 million people worldwide are currently living with a mental illness, yet nearly two thirds of people with a known mental illness never seek treatment. ADAA is dedicated to helping those living with anxiety, depression, and co-occurring disorders and their loved ones find treatment, support, and resources."
Home / Photo Gallery / Stress can trigger headaches: 5 natural remedies to relieve the pain
By Longjam Dineshwori Published on: May 21, 2020 7:19 pm
Tags: Avoid stress Headaches
If you're having headaches quite often these days, you may not be alone dealing with the problem. The stressful environment created by the COVID-19 pandemic can make a person's head hurt. We say so because stress is a common trigger of headaches, especially tension-type headaches and migraine. This means managing your stress can help keep headaches at bay. First let's understand the connection between stress and headaches. When you're stressed, your brain releases certain chemicals to combat the situation. Known as the flight or fight response, this process can cause vascular (blood vessel) changes that trigger migraine headaches. Build-up of emotions such as anxiety, worry, excitement, and fatigue can increase muscle and worsen your pain. Most headaches are nothing to worry about and they usually go away by themselves or after taking a painkiller. However, if headaches disrupt your daily activities, work or personal life, see a doctor. It may be due to some other reasons, perhaps a medical condition that needs prompt treatment. Seek emergency care if your headache is sudden and severe, follows a head injury, fall or bump And if it gets worse despite rest and taking over-the-counter pain medication. Also, watch out for the accompanying signs and symptoms such as – fever, stiff neck, rash, confusion, seizure, double vision, weakness, numbness or difficulty speaking. These signs and symptoms may indicate a serious medical condition. For common headaches caused by dehydration, lack of sleep, fatigue, constipation, weather changes, etc. These natural remedies may help relive the pain.
Best prescribed acne treatment ;Acne Scar Remover Cream
the best acne treatment. what are acne scars caused from. A combination of antibiotic tablets and topical treatments is usually the treatment option for severe acne. if prescribed this doesn' t work, your gp may prescribe a medication called isotretinoin. hormonal therapies or the combined oral contraceptive pill can also be effective in women who have acne. what are the best prescription acne treatments? the most effective prescription acne treatments are the following: topical retinoids ( ex. retin- a, tretinoin, differin, and tazorac) : topical retinoids regulate skin cell turnover and prevent abnormal follicular plugging, which can otherwise lead to the formation of acne.
as for treatments, there are common prescription options that are both topical and oral. i' m currently using soolantra on dr. golueke' s suggestion, which contains the active ingredient ivermectin. this super popular acne treatment contains pore- clearing salicylic acid, redness- calming calamine, and impurity- drawing sulfur, making it a triple- threat against breakouts. don' t shake it; simply dip a cotton swab into the pink goop, and dot onto breakouts before bedtime. more: the best benzoyl peroxide acne. there are numerous treatment options for people who suffer from acne. how your dermatologist decides to treat your acne will depend on the severity of your acne. several lotions and creams are available without a prescription that are helpful in mild cases of acne. for more severe cases of acne, there are prescription. rosehip oil for acne scars. product highlights.
improves your overall complexion. excellent blackhead remover, acne scar treatment, and acne scar removal. clinically proven, highly effective ingredients help to fight acne. this is best for moderate acne scars, but it won' t eliminate the appearance of very severe depressions or pits. laser resurfacing treatments burn off the top layer of skin to stimulate new tissue growth. this also creates an open wound that, once healed, reveals smoother, less scarred skin. laser treatments are best. we help patients fight acne with prescribed customized acne skin treatments in atlanta. we specialize in acne treatments for teens and adults alike. schedule a consultation best prescribed acne treatment today! give an acne treatment at least 4 weeks to work.
using a new acne product every few days may seem useful, but that approach can worsen acne. acne treatment needs time to work. using a different product every few days can also irritate your skin, causing new breakouts. best prescription acne treatment? i have minor acne and i am to request an prescription from my gp and not interested in having one from somewhere else. i have combination skin,. the best acne treatment for teenage boys by dr. yoram harth, md • - 02. this will require a visit to your physician or dermatologist to assess your skin and issue a prescribed prescription for a medication. a cochrane review examined 27 randomized trials that compared oral minocycline with placebo or other active treatments, including topical and systemic antibiotics, in prescribed a total of 3031 patients with acne vulgaris on the face or upper trunk. 4 the review determined that minocycline is probably an effective treatment for moderate acne. what is the best way of treating men' s acne?
prescription medications are the traditional course of treatment but they can have harsh side effects and prove less effective over time. as dermatologists move away from the use of antibiotics to treat persistent acne, accutane has become more and more prevalent. this drug, which is also sold under the names isotretinoin, claravis, zenatane and absorbica, has an 85% success rate prescribed in treating moderate to severe acne. unlike most acne treatments. otc products are really best for treating or preventing minor breakouts. severe acne is a whole different story, and many dermatologists recommend otcs in conjunction with prescription acne. otc hormonal acne treatment. the main ingredient in most creams and gel as wells as prescription drugs as the best acne treatment for teens is benzoyl peroxide. this active ingredient works prescribed by killing bacteria that causes acne while drawing prescribed out oil and sloughing prescribed off dead skin.
however, proceed with caution as this best acne treatment. the best dermatologist- approved acne treatments. Does baby shampoo help acne. story from prescribed beauty. 13 dermatologist- approved acne treatments that don' t require a prescription. otc acne products usually don' t work for nodular acne. widely available otc ingredients, such as salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide, help shed excess sebum and dead skin cells at the surface only. aczone ® ( dapsone) gel, 7. 5% important information approved use. 5% is a prescription medicine used on the prescribed skin ( topical) to treat acne in people 9. stress, alcohol, weather.
my adult acne was so hard to control until i started using for hers acne treatment. i was surprised by. when it comes to picking out the best acne treatment for you and your skin, it' s essential to consider all of the factors, including skin color. this guide will walk you through the unique needs of black, latin, asian, and white skin, including the most up- to- date research and recommendations for safe and effective acne. the best acne treatment for men in – top 4 recommended products. it is fortunate that dermatologists do have a few tricks up their sleeves to attack the problem of male adult acne. antibiotics might be prescribed. acne affects men and women, young and old. nearly everyone in their teens suffers from acne. if you think clear skin is just a memory, think again!
science has discovered dozens of acne treatments that are safe and effective. our goal is to bring you up- to- the- minute information about acne treatments. best acne treatments for teens. puberty is hard enough without having to deal with acne. these washes, toners, masks, and treatments can help fight those pesky breakouts. a bad skin day can knock your confidence at any age but fortunately our guide to the best acne treatments can help. you can suffer with spots well into your 50s and if you' re a blemish. treating blackheads and small red pimples ( grades 0 and 2) for prescribed non- inflammatory acne ( blackheads and papules) the treatment of choice is the prescription drug tretinoin ( retin a, retinoic acid), a.
view all articles; the acne. org regimen; accutane ( isotretinoin) prescriptions; over- the- counter. view all reviews; over- the- counter treatments; prescription treatments; other treatments; cleansers/ washes; moisturizers; makeup; sunscreens; razors/ shaving; scar treatments. acne has many types and forms, and amongst all, cystic acne is the most severe and toughest one to treat. these are cysts best prescribed acne treatment or nodules that affects the deeper layers of your skin. dermatologists often recommend a combination of topical and oral treatments for dealing with cystic acne. acne and its treatments ; prescription acne medications ; best prescription meds for blackheads. sign in to follow 0.
best prescription meds for blackheads. information on this outdated and, at best, temporary acne treatment. prescription treatments prescription. topical antibiotics. many topical antibiotics formulations are available, either alone or in combination. they inhibit the growth of p. acne and reduce inflammation. topical antibiotics such as erythromycin and clindamycin are the most popular in the management of acne. prescription treatment is the best treatment for teenage acne. prescription treatment involves oral as well as topical creams prescribed by a dermatologist. topical treatments for acne include antibiotics, benzoyl peroxide, adapalene, azelaic acid, tretinoin, and dapsone. oral drug treatment.
prescription oral treatments spironolactone – spironolactone is an androgen receptor antagonist often prescribed to treat hormonal acne in women. simply put, it blocks the effects of androgens, like. just as acne can range from mild to severe, acne treatments also vary, depending on how serious the problem is. the basic treatment is to remove what is plugging the duct of the gland and, if necessary, kill the acne. work with your dermatologist to find a solution, which may entail a combination of over- the- counter and prescription treatments. related: 7 reasons you prescribed have adult acne, and 7 ways to get. the best keratosis pilaris treatments; the best face masks for acne, according to derms; breaking out? it' s time to try tea tree oil; 5 signs you need a prescription acne treatment.
Neutrogena on the spot acne treatment 21g What are acne scars caused from Acne scar treatment singapore review
While grapefruits have long been recognized for their healthy qualities and ability to promote weight loss, it was not until the last thirty years that we began to understand the benefits of specific parts of this fruit.
Extract of the grapefruit seed contains some potent compounds that can help you not only fight disease but also boost your health in meaningful ways.
This guide breaks down everything you need to know about taking grapefruit seed extract, including how it can help you be healthier and stronger.
Understanding Grapefruit Seed Extract
Grapefruits are a citrus fruit with many excellent, healthy benefits, and these are concentrated when you enjoy grapefruit seed extract, which is derived from the pulp, white membranes, and seeds of the fruit.
As a natural antiseptic and antibacterial, grapefruit seed extract has been used by herbalist and natural medical practitioners around the world to treat infections and relieve digestive problems (1).
Grapefruit seed extract is different than other forms of the plant and similar sounding compounds.
For example, it is not the same as grapefruit seed oil, which is pressed solely from the seeds and only contains a small percentage of the nutrients of the extract.
It also differs from grapefruit essential oil (used primarily for aromatherapy) and grape seed oil or extract, which is made from grapes.
Combining the seeds and pulp into a highly acidic liquid begins the process of creating this extract.
Once processed, it becomes a bitter-tasting thick liquid with strong medicinal properties.
Most commercially-available grapefruit seed extract is combined with vegetable glycerin to reduce the acidity and bitterness of this compound.
The primary compounds that make this extract so beneficial to your health are its natural polyphenols, flavonoids, citric acid, and Vitamins C and E (2, 3, 4).
Using Grapefruit Seed Extract
You can find grapefruit seed extract in many different forms today, including as capsules, tablets, bulk powders, or liquid concentrates.
Be sure to read the labels of your products carefully to avoid any that contain synthetic materials or added ingredients.
Ideally, your product should have just the extract and vegetable glycerin for best results.
Grapefruit seed extract is also used to create many natural personal care products, including toothpaste, mouthwash, cosmetics, and nasal sprays.
Your doctor will be able to help you determine the optimal dose of grapefruit seed extract for your condition and needs.
How much you take depends on the form of extract you are using, its potency, and your health needs.
If you do not want to take a supplement, you can enjoy many of the health benefits of this extract by merely eating the seeds and membranes of the fruit itself.
This is a bitter option but safe, nonetheless.
If you have a juicer, you can also make juice that includes the seeds and membranes to enjoy.
Health Benefits of Grapefruit Seed Extract
Among the many benefits of this extract include its ability to fight microbes, including bacteria and yeasts, and its support in treating diseases like diabetes.
Grapefruit seed extract may also be able to protect your skin, liver, and heart while helping you to lose weight.
This fruit and its extracts are wonderful for providing antioxidants, which can reduce inflammation and fight oxidative stress.
Let’s look more closely at these health benefits.
Provides Antioxidant Support
The primary benefit of grapefruit seed extract is its high concentration of antioxidants, which can protect your cells from free radicals that cause oxidative damage over time.
This oxidative stress has been found to cause diabetes, heart disease, and several other chronic health problems (5, 6).
The polyphenols, flavonoids, and essential oils and vitamins found in this extract all provide antioxidant support for your cells (7).
In particular, naringin is a powerful polyphenol found in high concentrations in this extract that protects your tissues from damage (8).
Fights Microbes
The antiseptic qualities of grapefruit seed extract make it an excellent choice for destroying many kinds of pathogens, including ones that are often resistant to other forms of treatment.
This includes several types of yeasts, viruses, and bacteria.
In cell studies, this extract effectively inhibited the growth of several strains of Candida, a yeast that causes many different health problems (9).
In industrial applications, it could be used to help protect pharmaceuticals and other products from contamination by these microbes (10).
In a small clinical trial, grapefruit seed extract helped lower the presence of microbes, including E. coli, Candida albicans, and Geotrichum, in a group of patients (11).
After treatment, this group experienced fewer digestive problems and had an improvement in their skin issues, as well.
In additional cell studies, the compounds in this extract controlled 60 different pathogens, including foodborne microbes (12, 13).
In another important cell study, grapefruit seed extract effectively managed the growth of the virus that causes dengue fever (14).
Protects Your Heart
The flavonoids and other compounds found in grapefruit seed extract can help keep your heart and blood vessels health while also lowering your risk of heart disease.
For example, these compounds have been shown to help right the oxidative stress and inflammation that damages arteries and heart tissues (15) as well as lowering serum lipid levels (16).
These can help to prevent atherosclerosis or the buildup of harmful plaque on arteries and blood vessels (17).
Treats Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary tract infections are caused by bacteria in the bladder, causing inflammation and irritation, and research has shown that eating grapefruit seeds can relieve these symptoms and stop the infection (18).
Boosts Weight Loss
You can also help improve your chances of losing weight by taking grapefruit seed extract.
In animal trials, the compounds in this extract were shown to enhance weight loss (19).
Additional cell trials also confirmed that the compound naringenin, which is found in grapefruit seeds, boost fat burning and insulin sensitivity while also improving energy productions (20).
When you are trying to lose weight, these can be extremely helpful.
Treats Diabetes
The flavonoids in grapefruit seed extract may be able to help treat diabetes by improving insulin sensitivity and reducing blood sugar levels.
In animal trials, the use of this extract was found to lower serum lipid levels and blood glucose while also improving insulin sensitivity (21).
This is possible because the naringenin, naringin, and hesperidin found in this fruit strengthen your cells’ ability to metabolize glucose while also blocking oxidative stress (22, 23).
In addition, these same compounds are known to help reduce the many symptoms and complications of diabetes, including bone loss (24), kidney damage (25), retinopathy (26), and heart disease (27, 28).
Keeps Your Mouth Healthy
Grapefruit seed extract is a common additive to mouthwashes and toothpastes because it supports oral health by eliminating the bacteria that cause gum disease and plaque (29).
In a clinical trial, patients using a mouthwash containing this extract saw improvements in gum inflammation and bleeding, bad breath, and plaque formation (30).
Protects the Liver
Your liver’s primary function is to detoxify the blood by removing harmful chemicals, fats, and medications and removing these toxins from your body.
When these compounds are allowed to build up in the liver, they expose this vital organ to stress and can impair its ability to perform its functions.
The antioxidants in grapefruit seed extract can protect your liver’s cells and prevent oxidative stress (31) while shielding your liver against these wastes and toxins (32).
Protects Against Damage from Restricted Blood Flow
All your body’s cells need sufficient blood supply to work effectively, as your blood brings the oxygen and nutrients required for good health.
When blood flow becomes restricted, whether from a stroke or a blood clot, cells can become so deficient in these nutrients that they die.
The compounds in grapefruit seed extract may help to lessen this damage.
In animal trials, this supplement reduced the severity of both inflammation and damage to organs after a restriction of blood flow (33).
The antioxidants in this extract are likely responsible for this protective property.
Promotes Healthy Skin
The compounds in grapefruit seed extract are known to protect skin from UV damage while providing antioxidant support to the skin (34).
They can also be used to lower inflammation in the skin, which could help treat skin disorders like eczema or for relieving burns and other skin problems (35, 36).
Protects Against Gastric Ulcers
Gastric ulcers can be caused or made worse by factors such as stress and alcohol.
The antioxidants in grapeseed extract can help to protect your stomach from ulcers by enhancing mucus production in the stomach while also improving blood flow and lowering damage from free radicals (37, 38).
In one trial, ulcer formation was reduced by half when using this extract.
Cellular studies also show that grapefruit seed extract blocks the growth of the bacteria that cause stomach ulcers, H. pylori (39).
Precautions and Interactions
Because it can kill microbes, grapefruit seed extract can also deplete the healthy bacteria that live in your gut, if you take it for extended periods.
If you take this extract or supplement for longer than a few days, you should also take a probiotic or eats foods that contain probiotics to restore a healthy gut microbiome.
Be sure to separate your grapefruit seed extract from the probiotic supplement by at least two hours.
There is insufficient evidence on the effects of grapefruit seed extract on either pregnancy, breastfeeding, or children.
Until we learn more about how these compounds affect these vulnerable populations, it should not be used by people in these groups.
While we have some scientific evidence to warrant further research into and optimism about the use of grapefruit seed extract, there is very little clinical evidence using rigorous methodologies to support its use.
As we learn more from clinical studies, we can verify the health benefits discussed above with more detailed evidence.
Interactions
Because grapefruit juice blocks certain enzymes that are responsible for drug metabolism, you should exercise caution when taking medications while using grapefruit seed extracts.
For example, those who take statins to lower cholesterol, sedatives, immunosuppressant drugs, or medications for hypertension or epilepsy should talk with their doctor before using this extract (40).
You could suffer an overdose of your medication, as the compounds in this fruit can enhance the effectiveness of these drugs.
Seed extract from grapefruit can also interfere with many medications for heart problems, including medicines for arrhythmia and erectile dysfunction as well as antiplatelet or blood-thinning drugs (41, 42).
Chemical Contamination
Many products that claim to be grapefruit seed extract also contain additional chemicals that are likely added by the manufacturer to boost its disinfectant properties.
However, these chemicals can be dangerous if you consume them.
Triclosan, a common additive to extracts like this, is known to cause problems with allergies and asthma and can even lead to miscarriage or hormone disturbances (43).
Another common additive, benzalkonium chloride, can harm your lungs, nose, and eyes (44).
It is, therefore, vitally important that you purchase products that are meant for use on humans and not for cleaning purposes, and that the ingredients on your product do not contain any additives, such as these.
Research your desired manufacturer and follow the advice of reputable natural medicine providers or your doctor when selecting a product.
Conclusion
Extract of the grapefruit seed is not only a powerful antioxidant, but it also can help to fight infection and lower inflammation.
It has the capacity to fight a wide variety of microbes, from bacteria to yeasts and viruses, and it can boost your cells ability to resist damage from stress and other chronic conditions.
Grapefruit seed extract can help treat diabetes, treat fungal infections, help you lose weight, and protect you from many diseases.
It can even protect your heart and brain. If you need an immune system boost or to combat the signs of aging, this antioxidant makes an excellent choice.
While it is generally safe and well-tolerated, grapefruit seed extract can interfere with some medications, so always talk with your doctor before starting to take this supplement.
FDA Compliance
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the Food & Drug Administration or any other medical body. We do not aim to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease. Information is shared for educational purposes only. You must consult your doctor before acting on any content on this website, especially if you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition.
HOW WOULD YOU RATE THIS ARTICLE?
(No Ratings Yet)
Loading...
Recommended For You
10 Refreshing Benefits of Beer
Helen Brown
Helen Brown
Helen Brown is a nutrition expert who has been writing about various nutrition and weight loss topics for over 10 years. Her articles have been published in a number of online publications including the Huffington Post, Greatist and Science Based Medicine.
Related Posts
7 Evidence-Based Hangover Cures and Remedies
Helen Brown
22 Evidence-Based Benefits of Potatoes
Helen Brown
11 Evidence-Based Health Benefits of Kelp
Luther Egan
Reply
Cancel reply
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Recent Posts
Shea Butter Uses for Skin and More
7 Nutritional Yeast Benefits
Causes of Kidney Stone
7 Essential Oils for Anxiety
Fat Burning Foods
Featured Articles
16 Evidence-Based Benefits of Being Outdoors
31 Science-Backed Benefits and Uses of Argan Oil
15 Evidence-Backed Health Benefits of Milk Thistle
16 Evidence-Based Ways to Prevent Diabetes
34 Evidence-Based Benefits of Vitamin C
Medical Disclaimer
The information, including but not limited to, text, graphics, images and other material contained on this website are for informational purposes only. The purpose of this website is to promote broad consumer understanding and knowledge of various health topics. It is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health care provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition or treatment and before undertaking a new health care regimen, and never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this website.
Affiliate Disclaimer
When you buy certain products from some of the sites which we link to, Well-Being Secrets might receive a commission. These links are clearly marked as affiliate links and are easy to differentiate from links to products that Well-Being Secrets is not affiliated with. All affiliate content is in compliance with our editorial policy.
DMCA Compliance
Amazon Affiliate Disclosure
Well-Being Secrets is participating in Amazon Associates affiliate program and some of the links to Amazon might earn us a small commission. Amazon is the rightful owner of all Amazon related trademarks and copyrights.
