Look for medicines with Vitamins B, D, and magnesium. These are components proven to be of great help with anxiety. It will help you relax, feel more at ease, and stabilize or lift your moods.
Anxiety disorders have a good prognosis since it is highly treatable. Several trained mental health professionals can provide treatment for anxiety disorders. Therapy and medication can help reduce the symptoms of the condition.
Anxiety therapy helps develop better coping mechanisms. By identifying the triggers, the development of personalized healthy coping skills will soon follow.
Different activities can help calm the mind. You can discover the types of activities for you by going through therapy. Patients can choose between the individual therapy approach or group therapy for a better support system.
The lifestyle is a huge contributor to the success of the recovery. Practicing self-care strategies can also help in the overall improvement of the condition. Through therapy, you will learn to stay away from harmful thoughts that can impair everyday functions.
Although therapies can effectively alleviate symptoms of anxiety; however, it is not a quick fix. The process of progress and recovery will vary between individuals. It will take a significant amount of work, determination, and commitment. But focus on the goal, be honest and open with your therapist, and good results will eventually come.
Expect that the healing process won’t be linear. It might come with a lot of ups and downs. Therapy can even trigger a lot of distress. However, rest assured that in time, it will all be worthwhile.
5 Common Puppy Health Problems to Watch For | Knose
Regular vet visits, vaccines, a healthy diet and physical activity can all help your puppy stay in good health. However, puppies can end up with one or more common health problems, even when they're well-cared for. Keep these puppy health problems in mind, so you can make sure your pup gets proper care if needed.
Kennel cough is an infectious disease that causes respiratory problems in puppies. Viruses and bacteria can cause this illness to occur when puppies are exposed to them. Don't let the name of this disease fool you. Puppies can end up with kennel cough even if they haven't stayed in any kennels. Your puppy is at risk of catching these illness in any place where these viruses and bacteria are lurking. Consider having your puppy vaccinated for this disease to lower the risk of a serious infection.
Puppies that have kennel cough usually have a fever, a reduced appetite, and a lack of energy. As this illness gets worse, it can cause puppies to have a deep cough with or without phlegm. If you don't have your puppy treated, kennel cough can turn into a severe case of pneumonia.
Treatment for kennel cough depends on what is causing it. Bacterial infections require antibiotics, while viruses have to run their course. Your vet can provide information on what to give your puppy to ease symptoms. Overall, viral cases of kennel cough in puppies typically get better within two weeks.
Vomiting and diarrhoea can be common in puppies due to their inquisitive nature. They will eat, chew, or lick most common objects and this can lead to stomach upsets due to their developing gastrointestinal system. Vomiting and diarrhoea can also be signs of more serious disease, therefore it is important that you do not neglect the symptoms if they continue for too long.
If your puppy is vomiting or has diarrhoea, you should watch for any other symptoms that occur. For example, a fever could be a sign of an illness that requires veterinary care. You should also watch for signs of dehydration, such as lethargy, sunken eyes, and excessive panting. Puppies showing signs of dehydration require immediate veterinary care.
Treatment for Vomiting and Diarrhoea
Offer your puppy water to help prevent dehydration from occurring. You can offer bland food that your veterinarian recommends if your puppy is able to hold these down without vomiting. Keep in mind that you should see your veterinarian if your puppy has been vomiting for over 12 hours or has been having diarrhoea for over 24 hours. Additionally, if there are any signs of blood in the vomit or diarrhoea, you should see your veterinarian immediately.
Parvovirus typically occurs in young puppies under the age of 12 weeks and these are the most at risk, along with unvaccinated, older, or immunocompromised dogs. However, any aged dog can become infected. The disease is spread through exposure with an infected animal but also through the environment. The virus is highly contagious and resistant to factors such as heat and chemicals, therefore it is possible to remain in the environment for periods of up to one year. Parvovirus vaccinations are available for puppies, the first vaccination usually given at 6 weeks, but can be given as young as 4 weeks in high risk areas.
Puppies that have been infected with parvovirus usually have a fever before any other symptoms occur. Within a few days, infected puppies start vomiting and having diarrhea. In some cases, puppies can have diarrhea with blood in it. Without prompt treatment, puppies with parvovirus can become dehydrated and seriously ill.
Puppies that have parvovirus often need to stay at a veterinary hospital while they recover from dehydration and other symptoms. These hospital stays involve staying in a quarantine ward and receiving IV fluids to help them become properly hydrated. Some puppies are also given antibiotics to reduce the risk of a life-threatening bacterial infection known as sepsis. With treatment, puppies with parvovirus typically get better within a week.
Distemper is a serious illness that can cause fatal problems, including pneumonia or brain damage. This viral disease also remains in puppies after they recover. Although it often stays dormant, it can end up causing seizures and other problems if it becomes active again. Puppies can get vaccinated against distemper to lower their risk of getting this disease.
Distemper shows up as respiratory symptoms at first, which can resemble cold and flu symptoms, such as sneezing. Some dogs also have eye discharge, fever, and depression with this disease. Without treatment, complications can occur and be life-threatening
Puppies need prompt veterinary care for distemper, which often includes supportive care at a veterinary hospital. In some cases, puppies require weeks of care before being able to go home.
Have you just brought home a new pet and worried about health problems and parasites such as intestinal worms, heartworm, fleas, and ticks to watch out for? Subscribe to Knose and get useful information about how to best keep your dog healthy and happy.
The Effect of an Education Program Based on Illness Perception on the Lifestyle of Patients with Metabolic Syndrome: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial
Mitra Rahimi 2
Ladan Zarshenas 3
2 Student at Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran
10.30476/ijcbnm.2019.81658.0
Background: This study aimed to examine the effects of an education program based on illness perceptions on the lifestyle of patients with metabolic syndrome.
Methods: This is a randomized controlled clinical trial on 80 patients with metabolic syndrome referred to diabetic clinic affiliated to Shiraz University of Medical Sciences from August to November 2016. The patients were assigned to two control and intervention groups using a simple randomization method. The intervention group received education based on illness perceptions, using face-to-face and telephone follow up sessions in five weeks. The lifestyle questionnaire, brief illness perception questionnaire and demographic information questionnaire were used for data collection. The patients' lifestyle was examined before and at the end of the eighth week from the beginning of the intervention. Descriptive and inferential statistics were used for data analysis.
Results: After the intervention, the total lifestyle score in the intervention group significantly increased, as compared to the control group (14.60±6.85 vs 6.15±5.80) (P<0.001). Of all the lifestyle dimensions, only stress management after the intervention showed no significant changes (P>0.001).
Conclusion: Education based on illness perceptions affected the lifestyle of patients with metabolic syndrome. Therefore, nurses and healthcare providers can use this program for improving the lifestyle of patients with metabolic syndrome.
Mottillo S, Filion KB, Genest J, et al. The metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular risk a systematic review and meta-analysis. Journal of the American College of Cardiology. 2010;56:1113-32.
Saklayen MG. The Global Epidemic of the Metabolic Syndrome. Current hypertension reports. 2018;20:12.
Dalvand S, Niksima SH, Meshkani R, et al. Prevalence of metabolic syndrome among Iranian population: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Iranian journal of public health. 2017;46:456-67.
Parikh RM, Mohan V. Changing definitions of metabolic syndrome. Indian journal of endocrinology and metabolism. 2012;16:7-12.
Nur KRM, Chinnawong T, Kritpracha CH. Illness Perception And Cardiovascular Health Behaviors In Persons With Ischemic Heart Disease: A Literature Review. GSTF Journal of Nursing and Health Care (JNHC). 2017;4:18-22.
Sováriová Soósová M, Hrehová J. The effect of education on life style changes and metabolic syndrome components. Cent Eur J Nurs Midw 2014;5:161–8.
Van Broekhoven M, de Rooij BH, Pijnenborg JMA, et al. Illness perceptions and changes in lifestyle following a gynecological cancer diagnosis: A longitudinal analysis. Gynecol Oncol. 2017;145:310-8.
Wiborg JF, Löwe B. Illness perceptions in patients with somatoform disorders: Examining the role of comorbidity. Journal of Health Psychology. 2015;20:1166-74.
Diefenbach MA, Leventhal H. The common-sense model of illness representation: Theoretical and practical considerations. Journal of Social Distress and the Homeless. 1996;5:11-38.
Evers AW, Kraaimaat FW, van Lankveld W, et al. Beyond unfavorable thinking: the illness cognition questionnaire for chronic diseases. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology. 2001;69:1026-36.
Yan J, You LM, Liu BL, et al. The effect of a telephone follow-up intervention on illness perception and lifestyle after myocardial infarction in China: A randomized controlled trial. International Journal of Nursing Studies. 2014;51:844-55.
Rakhshan M, Kordshooli KR, Ghadakpoor S. Effects of Family-Center Empowerment Model on the Lifestyle of Heart Failure Patients: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial. International Journal of Community Based Nursing and Midwifery. 2015;3:255-62.
Walker SN, Kerr MJ, Pender NJ, Sechrist KR. A Spanish language version of the Health-Promoting Lifestyle Profile. Nursing Research. 1990;39:268-73.
Safabakhsh L. The effect of educational protocol based on penders theory on life style of patient after coronary artery bypass graft at Namazi, Faghihi, MRI hospitals. [thesis]. Shiraz (Iran): Shiraz University of Medical Sciences; 2004. [In Persian]
Mohammadian H, Ghannaee M, Kortdzanganeh J, Meihan L. Reliability and Construct Validity of the Iranian Version of Health-promoting Lifestyle Profile in a Female Adolescent Population. International journal of preventive medicine. 2013;4:42-9.
Broadbent E, Wilkes C, Koschwanez H, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of the Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire. Psychology Health. 2015;30:1361-85.
Broadbent E, Petrie KJ, Main J, Weinman J. The brief illness perception questionnaire. Journal of Journal of Psychosomatic Research. 2006;60:631-7.
Bagherian Sararoodi R, Saneei H, Bahrami Ehsan H. The Relationship of History of Hypertension and Illness Cognitive Representation in Post-Myocardial Infarction. Journal of Isfahan Medical School. 2010;27:699-709.
Bazzaziana S, Besharatb MA. Reliability and validity of a Farsi version of the brief illness perception questionnaire. Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences. 2010;5:962-5.
Chen SL, Tsai JC, Lee WL. The impact of illness perception on adherence to therapeutic regimens of patients with hypertension in Taiwan. J Clin Nurs. 2009;18:2234-44.
Falkowski J, Atchison T, Debutte-Smith M, et al. Executive functioning and the metabolic syndrome: a project FRONTIER study. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2014;29:47-53.
Park YH, Song M, Cho BL. The effects of an integrated health education and exercise program in community-dwelling older adults with hypertension: a randomized controlled trial. Patient Education and Counseling. 2011;1:133-7.
Jeihooni AK, Hidarnia A, Kaveh MH, et al. Application of the health belief model and social cognitive theory for osteoporosis preventive nutritional behaviors in a sample of Iranian women. Iran J Nurs Midwifery Res. 2016;21:131-41.
Elmer PJ, Obarzanek E, Vollmer WM, et al. Effects of comprehensive lifestyle modification on diet, weight, physical fitness, and blood pressure control: 18-month results of a randomized trial. Annals of internal medicine. Annals of internal medicine. 2006 ;144:485-95.
Navidian A, Mobaraki H, Shakiba M. The effect of education through motivational interviewing compared with conventional education on self-care behaviors in heart failure patients with depression. Patient Educ Couns. 2017;100:1499-504.
PDF 813.85 K
Rakhshan, M., Rahimi, M., Zarshenas, L. (2019). The Effect of an Education Program Based on Illness Perception on the Lifestyle of Patients with Metabolic Syndrome: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial. International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery, 7(4), 279-287. doi: 10.30476/ijcbnm.2019.81658.0
Mahnaz Rakhshan; Mitra Rahimi; Ladan Zarshenas. "The Effect of an Education Program Based on Illness Perception on the Lifestyle of Patients with Metabolic Syndrome: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial". International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery, 7, 4, 2019, 279-287. doi: 10.30476/ijcbnm.2019.81658.0
Rakhshan, M., Rahimi, M., Zarshenas, L. (2019). 'The Effect of an Education Program Based on Illness Perception on the Lifestyle of Patients with Metabolic Syndrome: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial', International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery, 7(4), pp. 279-287. doi: 10.30476/ijcbnm.2019.81658.0
Rakhshan, M., Rahimi, M., Zarshenas, L. The Effect of an Education Program Based on Illness Perception on the Lifestyle of Patients with Metabolic Syndrome: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial. International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery, 2019; 7(4): 279-287. doi: 10.30476/ijcbnm.2019.81658.0
Stacey Freeman - Person - School of Sustainability
48 Cummington mall
Dr. Stacey Freeman was the Program Manager for Sustainability in Science Museums at Arizona State University (ASU). She was responsible for developing a global network of science and natural history museums to implement sustainability-related programming within their institutions. With more than a decade of experience in university outreach programs, Stacey is an expert at developing community relationships with a focus on science communication. Prior to her Program Manager position, Stacey managed education, outreach and diversity programs at two National Science Foundation research centers in Kansas and California. In a previous position at ASU, she directed an undergraduate certification program in Nonprofit Leadership and Management. Stacey holds a Ph.D. in Educational Policy and Evaluation from the Mary Lou Fulton Teacher's College at ASU. Her research interests include STEM education, and educational access and equity for underrepresented groups.
PhD, Educational Policy and Evaluation, Arizona State University, 2016
MEd, Higher and Postsecondary Education, Arizona State University, 2005
BA, English and Business, University of Wisconsin, 2002
social justice for people of color
African-American academic persistence
Freeman, S. V. 2016. African American Academic Persistence: The Role of Agency, Identity, and Culture and Context. Presentation at the 2016 American Educational Research Association Annual Meeting: Public Scholarship to Educate Diverse Democracies, 8-12 April 2016, Washington, D.C.. (link )
Freeman, S. V. and Z. Jiang. 2012. Effects of Small-Group Learning on Undergraduate Students' Learning Outcomes in STEM Education: A Meta-Analysis of Quantitative Studies from 1990 to 2011. Presentation at the Presentation at the American Educational Research Association Annual Meeting, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
Freeman, S. V. and Z. Jiang. 2012. Undergraduate Students' Attrition in Engineering: A Literature Review from 1980 to 2011. Presentation at the Presentation at the American Educational Research Association Annual Meeting, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
Freeman, S. V. and Z. Jiang. 2011. An Analysis of the Effect of Cognitive Factors on Students' Attritions in Engineering: A Literature Review. Presentation at the Presentation at the ASQ STEM Agenda Conference, University of Wisconsin – Stout, Menomonie, Wisconsin.
Do you really know what Dementia is? | Telford, Bridgnorth, Market Drayton & Newport 2000242566690031
Dementia is a word that most people have heard, but do they know what it actually is? People associate dementia with memory loss as you get older but it is a lot more than that, it is in fact a syndrome that is associated with the ongoing decline of the brain and its abilities which can include; memory loss, mental ability, use of language, understanding and judgment. Home Instead Senior Care Telford Newport and Bridgnorth are passionate about providing people who suffer from Dementia the right support, so we have put together some information to raise awareness of what Dementia really is. People who suffer from the disease may struggle on a daily basis to make decisions and complete tasks and require support from friends and family. Dementia usually progresses slowly, so making an accurate diagnosis in the early stages can be difficult and several visits to a professional over a period of time may be needed. It is important to get an early diagnosis to eliminate any conditions that can cause dementia like symptoms such as depression, to discuss the right treatment and support that is available and allow the patient to have an active part in the planning of their future. People may ask what is the difference between dementia and just plain old age, well this can fall down to the symptoms that can include; increasing difficulty with tasks and activities that require concentration and planning, a change in their personality and mood, periods of confusion and a difficulty in finding the right words to express what they want to say. To get all scientific, dementia is usually caused by degeneration in the cerebral cortex, which is the part of the brain responsible for thoughts, memories, actions and personality. The death of brain cells on this region leads to the cognitive impairments that characterise dementia.
Dementia is a broad term and refers to brain syndromes that result in problems with memory, judgment and communication. The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer's disease which accounts for 50 to 70% of all dementia cases. It is a degenerative brain disease that gradually destroys a person's memory, the ability to reason, make judgments and carry out daily tasks such as washing, dressing and eating, and as it progresses individuals may experience changes to their personality and behaviour. It is a slow and progressive disease that can be divided into stages, but each individual's progression with the disease will vary.
If you or your loved one has recently been diagnosed with Dementia, you might be hit with a range of emotions such as denial, anger, fear, frustration and even sadness, these are normal. There are some ways to help manage the disease in a way which is beneficial to both you and your family;
- Take care of your health through regular exercise, a healthy diet and regular check ups with your GP.
- Join a dementia support group as this can allow both yourself and your Caregiver to meet people in the same situation and can learn more about the disease.
- Keep the lines of communication open with friends and family and continue to share your feelings, everyone wants to help so don't be afraid to ask!
A diagnosis of dementia does not mean that life is over, yes there will be challenges ahead but planning and preparing for them in advance will benefit everyone in the long run!
REQUEST_URI: /east-shropshire/news-events/do-you-really-know-what-dementia-is UNENCODED_URL: /east-shropshire/news-events/do-you-really-know-what-dementia-is
How Cardiovascular Health Keeps You Well for Years to Come - Future of Personal Health
How Cardiovascular Health Keeps You Well for Years to Come
Home » Immunity Health & Wellness » How Cardiovascular Health Keeps You Well for Years to Come
Photo: Courtesy of Tomasz Woźniak
Cardiovascular disease, including heart disease and stroke, has been the leading cause of death in the world for a century.
Donald Lloyd-Jones, M.D., Sc.M., FAHA
Volunteer President, American Heart Association
Fortunately, those death rates have declined sharply since the late 1960s. Looking to the future, I can even imagine a day when cardiovascular diseases are considered rare.
How? By focusing on cardiovascular health early in life.
My research studying the ways to prevent heart disease and stroke has shown this is indeed possible. We've found that if more people could maintain optimal cardiovascular health into mid-life, cardiovascular disease rates could fall dramatically.
This incredible possibility is why the American Heart Association focuses on promoting cardiovascular health, in addition to preventing, treating, and researching disease.
We define cardiovascular health through seven measures: blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar, body weight, diet, physical activity, and smoking status. We call these "Life's Simple 7." You can think of them as the secret to a longer, healthier life.
Many studies show that people with high cardiovascular health — that is, those who maintain all (or as many as possible) of the 7 health factors at optimal levels — live healthier, longer lives. They experience less cardiovascular disease, cancer, dementia, arthritis, and many other chronic diseases that become more common as we age.
As we've seen with COVID-19, and decades before with the flu, people with better cardiovascular health are in better shape to fight off viral infections as well. What may surprise you is how early in life factors begin to impact your future cardiovascular health, and that not all of it is in your control.
For example, many people face barriers to health because of "social determinants of health," where you are born and live, housing insecurity, food insecurity, and access to healthcare. Other barriers include the unique health challenges faced by people in rural areas, and structural racism that has contributed to worse health outcomes for many Black, Hispanic, Indigenous, and Asian people.
Another factor is cardiovascular health during pregnancy. My team's research showed that women with high cardiovascular health were eight times more likely than those with poor cardiovascular health to have children with high cardiovascular health 10 years after they were born.
Data supports the notion that throughout childhood, the single best predictor of a child's cardiovascular health is their mother's cardiovascular health.
In short, wellness involves creating and maintaining high cardiovascular health from birth.
Our nation and world are still grappling with a global pandemic and syndemic issues related to social justice and economic recovery. Adversity often leads to opportunity, and our current opportunity is to craft a better, healthier future for ourselves and generations to come.
Will it be hard? Yes. Will it be worth it? A thousand times, yes.
We know how to do this. Over a span of 42 years, we reduced cardiovascular death rates by 70 percent. We did it through science, education, and collaboration between healthcare and the public. That's how we'll tackle this, too.
It starts with each of us taking small steps in a healthy direction. Take a walk. Know your numbers (for cholesterol, blood glucose, blood pressure, and body mass index). Make that doctor's appointment you've put off (or make one for your relative). Get vaccines when they are available to you. Donate nutritious food to the local food bank.
It ends with healthier, longer lives for all.
Donald Lloyd-Jones, M.D., Sc.M., FAHA, Volunteer President, American Heart Association, us.editorial[email protected]
The Facts of Celiac Disease; A Comprehensive Review
The Facts of Celiac Disease; A Comprehensive Review
Nastaran Asri, Mohammad Rostami-Nejad
International Journal of Celiac Disease. 2019, 7(2), 48-52. DOI: 10.12691/ijcd-7-2-7
Received June 10, 2019; Revised August 02, 2019; Accepted August 13, 2019
Celiac disease (CD) is the most common permanent T-cell mediated gluten intolerance, caused by the dietary gluten in individuals who are genetically susceptible to the disease. CD characterized by small intestine mucosal lesions, subtotal, or total intestinal villi atrophy and nutrient malabsorptions. Sometimes the diagnosis of CD is so challenging and needs a combination of clinical, serological, histopathological and genetic evaluations. The well-known cornerstone treatment of CD is gluten-free diet (GFD) and there is need to regular monitoring of patients after starting the GFD. The main aim of this review was to discussing the definition and pathogenesis of CD, together with the diagnostics, treatment and follow-up strategies in this disease.
Keywords: celiac disease glutens t-lymphocytes diet gluten-free diagnosis
Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder related to the gastrointestinal tract with the autoimmune features that are developed in genetically susceptible individuals by consuming the gluten protein of the wheat and similar proteins in the barley and rye 1. CD is a common autoimmune disorder, which is prevailed among 1% of people in different parts of the world 2. In fact, the interplay between innate and adaptive immune responses play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of CD 3. This disorder affects the small intestine and in particular the duodenum, causing atrophy of the absorbent apparatus and malabsorption of nutrients including iron, B12 and folic acid 2, 4, 5, 6. The intestinal mucosal changes in CD are different from mild (slight increase of inflammatory infiltrate in both the epithelium and lamina propria) to severe lesions (villous flattening and crypt hyperplasia) 7. Most CD patients present with highly variable clinical manifestations including intestinal and extra-intestinal symptoms, or it can even be without any symptoms 8. This review focused on celiac disease pathogenesis, it's diagnostics, follow-up and therapeutic approaches.
2. Clinical features of CD
The clinical manifestations of CD are extensive and different, therefore it can be presented with a range of intestinal (Chronic diarrhea, bloating, dyspepsia, and abdominal pain) and extra intestinal (Iron deficiency anemia, osteoporosis, dermatitis herpetiformis, neurologic abnormalities, increased liver enzyme levels, arthritis and weight loss) symptoms 6, 9, 10. Although more than 80% of patients with celiac disease in general population screenings are clinically silent, they have no symptoms or their symptoms are very minor or they may have an atypical presentation. Moreover, the risk of developing the enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL) and small bowel adenocarcinoma is increased in undiagnosed cases with CD 7.
3. Pathogenesis of CD
The pathogenesis of CD depends on the interaction of triple factors (genetic background, gluten, and environmental influences) as follow:
a. Genetic background: The susceptibility to celiac disease is significantly related to the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II genes (HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8). It is also estimated that various non-HLA genes contribute to develop the CD in different populations 7. However, HLA-DQ2 and/or DQ8 genes are required for developing the celiac disease and there are in nearly all CD patients. Macrophages, dendritic cells, and B-cells express these HLA class II molecules which are important components of antigen-presenting cells 7, 9, 11.
b. Gluten: Gluten proteins are rich in proline and glutamine residues, and they are highly resistant to breakdown by pepsin, pancreatic proteases, and intestinal brush border membrane peptidases. Because gastric and pancreatic endoproteases cannot cleave proline or glutamine residue and the long remaining peptides do not break down in the brush border membrane by dipeptidyl peptidase IV and dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase I, gluten comparatively breaks down into the gliadin fragments. These fragments remain for longer time in the lumen, and they enter into the lamina propria (LP) area by increasing the permeability of the epithelial cells 9, 12, 13 and this is the first stage of the start of celiac disease, which will be explained in more detail in the following part.
c. Environment: Both of the above-mentioned factors play a significant role in the development of CD, but these are not enough to cause the disease 14. For example, 30%–35% of the general population has HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8 and only 2%–5% of gene carriers develop celiac disease 7, 10. This explains that various environmental factors can also play a role in the pathogenesis of celiac disease. In particular, the factors that affect the intestinal environment such as infection, alterations in the intestinal microbiota, duration of breast-feeding and increased consumption of gluten in early years of life 9, 15, 16.
4. Diagnosis of CD
Serological evaluation and antibody testing is the initial step in diagnosing patients with CD. This diagnostic process should be undertaken while patients are on a normal gluten-containing diet. Serologic evaluation can be performed with disease-specific antibodies such as anti-tissue transglutaminase antibody (Anti-TG2), Endomysial antibody (EMA) and antibody against gliadin peptides (AGA) 17.
IgA class antibodies have been shown to have a significantly higher sensitivity and specificity as compared to its IgG subclasses. Therefore, IgA anti-TG2 is recommended to be used as effective first-line screening test for detecting CD in these patients 18.
On the other hand, it is important to keep in mind that IgA deficiency is prevalent among CD patients and it may cause false-negative results of IgA antibody testing in these patients' population. In this scenario, it is recommended to measure total serum IgA levels along with IgA anti-TG2, and also IgG-based serologic tests including IgG anti-gliadin antibody and IgG anti-TG2 antibody should be used for disease evaluating 18, 19.
IgA anti-EMA antibody testing is a qualitative test that can be used as a confirmatory test along with anti-TG2 antibodies for a more accurate diagnosis 17, 20.
On the other hand, EMA and TG2 antibodies tests seem to be less sensitive in in children <2 years of age. Therefore, antibodies against gliadin are useful for their assessment 17, 20, 21.
It should be noted that seronegativity in individuals consuming gluten does not rule out the possibility of CD and final confirmation of celiac disease is only possible after a small bowel biopsy examination 22.
4.1. Small Intestinal Biopsy
The histological judgment of small intestinal biopsy is commonly regarded as the gold standard for diagnosis of CD which is routinely performed after seropositive results of CD patients. In addition, patients with normal serological markers but with celiac disease symptoms should also undergo endoscopic evaluation for definitive diagnosis of the disease 23.
The hallmarks of CD in microscopic assessment of the biopsies include: increased intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs), crypt hyperplasia, and villous atrophy 22.
4.2. Genetic Testing
HLA-DQ tests are useful in excluding CD in cases where the diagnosis is unclear; for example, when there is a discrepancy between serology and histopathology results, genetic tests should be performed 17.
Since nearly all patients with CD are positive for HLA-DQ2/ DQ8, if a patient is negative for these alleles, CD can be excluded lifelong. However, positive DQ2/DQ8 cannot be used to confirm a diagnosis of CD, because Approximately, 40 % of all individuals are positive for HLA-DQ2/ 8 and only 2% to 5% of this population develop CD 17.
5. Treatment of CD
Following a strict gluten-free diet (GFD) lifelong is the current essential treatment of celiac disease which requires complete elimination of all foods containing the gluten protein from the diet, and is difficult to maintain 5.
Due to advanced understanding of CD pathogenesis, a number of novel and experimental therapeutic trials for the treatment of CD are ongoing. These therapeutic strategies aimed at inducing tolerance to ingested gluten. Of particular interest are: development of gluten products with low immunogenicity, oral enzyme therapy, probiotics, tight junction regulatory peptides, tissue transglutaminase enzyme and proinflammatory cytokines blockage and more 5, 11, 22.
6. Intestinal Permeability to Gliadin Peptides
6.1. Paracellular Transport
The small intestine includes a paracellular barrier which is collected from the tight junction (TJ) and the adherens junction (AJ). There is an endogenous protein called 'Zonulin' that can regulate the reversible permeability of tight junctions and allow an increased passage of the macromolecular proteins such as gliadin into lamina propria. When gliadine peptides enter into the small intestinal lumen and bind to the CXCR3 receptor, zonulin will be released by intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) and lamina propria macrophages and bind to IECs, thereby leading to a signal cascade that can break up the paracellular tight junctions and increase the intestinal permeability, and as a result, gliadin peptides can enter into the lamina propria 14, 24, 25, 26, 27.
6.2. Transcellular Transport
In addition to the enhanced paracellular intestinal permeability, there is also a transcellular transition for gliadin peptides. The hypothesis of this process is that the secretory IgA (sIgA) released by the plasma cells in the pathogenic pathway of celiac disease, binds to the transferrin receptor (CD71), a protein that is up regulated in the intestinal epithelium of celiac patients. As a result, partially degraded gliadin moves through epithelial cells 24, 28.
Moreover, the small intestinal permeability can be increased by other pro-inflammatory mediators such as interferon γ (IFN-γ) and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) which are released from gluten-activated CD4+ T-cells. In addition, some genomic studies have reported that MAGI2, MYO9B, and PARD3 genes control the intestinal permeability in celiac disease patients 14, 24, 29, 30.
It should be noted that in healthy individuals, gliadin peptides enter into the enterocytes through endocytosis and they are totally degraded by the lysosomal system. Therefore, gluten does not enter into the lamina propria, and unlike celiac patients, it does not cause the immune responses in normal individuals 31, 32.
7. Immune Responses to Gluten in CD
Immune responses develop in CD patients after incomplete digested gliadin peptides enter into the lamina propria 9, 13. As it will be explained in more detail in the following section, similar to many other autoimmune diseases, innate and adaptive immune responses contribute to the pathogenesis of celiac disease 33.
7.1. Adaptive Immune Response
Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) enzymes can modify the gliadin peptides to deamidated form in LP. In fact, glutamine residues in the α2-gliadin peptide p56-88, generally named 33-mer, and its shorter version p56-68, in particular in Gln-X-Pro-Z (X can be each amino acid but Z must be hydrophobic) sequences are converted to negatively charged glutamate residues in deamidation process 5, 7, 34. Then antigen-presenting cells (APCs), such as macrophages, dendritic cells, and B-cells, uptake these deamidated gliadin peptides, break them down into smaller peptides and present these particles to gliadin-specific CD4+ T-cells by their HLA class II including DQ2 and/or DQ8 heterodimers 7, 9. The HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8 molecules have positively charged pockets that have a preference for the negatively deamidated charged gliadin peptides 5, 35. After taking these gliadine fragments from APCs, the gliadin-specific CD4+ T-cells polarize along the T helper 1 (Th1)-type pathway and produce large amounts of IFNγ, the main cytokine of Th1 response, in combination with other cytokines such as Interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5, IL-10, TNF-α and Transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) 9, 36, 37, 38. Among these cytokines both TNF-α and IFN-γ stimulate the expression and activation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) such as MMP-1, MMP-3 and MMP-12 in intestinal myofibroblasts. This activation results in degradation and proteolysis of the extracellular matrix that leads to architectural remodeling observed in celiac disease 7, 39, 40. There is also increased humoral activity in CD. The density of the plasma cells as well as immunoglobulin secretion such as immunoglobulin class A (IgA) antibodies targeted against transglutaminase 2 increase in the active celiac lamina propria. These antibodies are used to diagnose the celiac disease and as previously noted, secretory IgA (sIgA) can play a role in the transcellular transitions of the gliadin peptides through binding to the transferrin receptor (CD71) 41, 42, 43, 44.
7.2. Innate Immune Response
The α9-gliadin peptide 31-49 (p31-49) or its shorter version, p31-43, may activate the intestinal innate immune responses that produce the potent pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-15 (IL-15) commonly by monocytes/macrophages, dendritic and epithelial cells 24, 31, 37, 45. IL-15 causes differentiation of intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) into cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells that express the natural killer cell marker (NK-G2D). IL-15 also increases the expression of the NK-G2D ligand on epithelial cells, called MICA and MICB. In other hand, IELs in CD patients express CD94/ NKG2C compared to the normal IELs that is also an NK receptor. The ligand of this receptor is HLA-E protein, which is up regulated in epithelial cells in response to IFN-γ during the pathogenesis of celiac disease. The interaction of NKG2D with MICA/B and of CD94/NKG2C with HLA-E activates the IELs and they destroy the epithelial cells of the intestines in patients with celiac disease 24, 46, 47, 48. Therefore, Interleukin-15 is regarded to be an important cytokine to cause the pathological changes in the intestine of celiac disease patients and also plays an important role in the interaction between innate and adaptive immunity 37, 45
IL-21 is another cytokine produced by CD4+ T-cells in the intestinal mucosa of celiac disease patients which often operates in relation to IL-15 and also stimulates the innate immune system 7.
The final result of these immune responses and inflammatory cascades is damage to the intestinal mucosa 9.
8. Monitoring and Follow-up of CD
CD is a lifelong systemic disease that requires regular follow-up visits; thus, the follow-up is a critical aspect of treating the CD patients. The typical follow-up schedule includes a first visit in 3–6 months, then annually from date of diagnosis. It has been shown that CD patients have improved quality of life after treating with a gluten-free diet for at least 1 year 49.
In fact, management of CD needs assessment of changes in clinical symptoms, repeating serological tests and screening for other potential complications. Duodenal mucosal assessment is also recommended after the first year of a GFD as well as when patients have continued symptoms despite a GFD 49, 50.
In conclusion, celiac disease is a T-cell mediated disorder triggered by gluten exposure which affects about 1% of the population. In particular, the collaboration between innate and adaptive immunity, which are formed against dietary gluten, results in epithelial apoptosis, mucosal destruction and intestinal inflammation in CD. The clinical manifestations of CD are different, and it can be presented with a range of intestinal and extra intestinal symptoms. Serological markers evaluation followed by small bowel investigation are necessary for diagnosis of CD. Genetic testing can also be useful to rule out the condition. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, strict adherence to a gluten-free diet considered the only effective treatment for the individuals with celiac disease. Future perspectives on the treatment of this disease include therapeutic strategies that aimed at inducing tolerance to ingested gluten in different ways. Regular follow-up also requisite to increase compliance and minimize the potential complications of the disease.
AGA: Antibody against gliadin peptides
AJ: Adherens Junction
GFD: Gluten Free Diet
LP: Lamina Propria
TG2: Transglutaminase 2
This study supported by Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran
[1] Gasbarrini GB, Mangiola F, Gerardi V, Ianiro G, Corazza GR, Gasbarrini A. "Coeliac disease: an old or a new disease? History of a pathology." Internal and emergency medicine 2014; 9(3): 249-256.
[2] Ehsani-Ardakani MJ, Villanacci V, Volta U, Manenti S, Caio G, Giovenali P, Becheanu G, Diculescu M, Pellegrino S, Magazzù G. "Gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal presentation in patients with celiac disease." Archives of Iranian medicine 2013; 16(2): 78.
[3] Meresse B, Ripoche J, Heyman M, Cerf-Bensussan N. "Celiac disease: from oral tolerance to intestinal inflammation, autoimmunity and lymphomagenesis." Mucosal immunology 2009; 2(1): 8.
[4] Booth CC, Peters TJ, Doe WF. "Immunopathology of coeliac disease." Ciba Found Symp 1977(46): 329-346
[5] Kurada S, Yadav A, Leffler DA. "Current and novel therapeutic strategies in celiac disease." Expert review of clinical pharmacology 2016; 9(9): 1211-1223.
[6] Green PH, Lebwohl B, Greywoode R. "Celiac disease." Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2015; 135(5): 1099-1106.
[7] Marsh MN, Johnson MW, Rostami K. "Mucosal histopathology in celiac disease: a rebuttal of Oberhuber's sub-division of Marsh III." Gastroenterology and hepatology from bed to bench 2015; 8(2): 99.
[8] Gujral N, Freeman HJ, Thomson AB. "Celiac disease: prevalence, diagnosis, pathogenesis and treatment." World journal of gastroenterology: WJG 2012; 18(42): 6036.
[9] Rostami MN, Karkhane M, Marzban A, Nazemalhosseini EM, Rostami K. "Gluten related disorders." Gastroenterology and hepatology from bed to bench 2012; 5(Suppl 1): S1-7.
[10] Schuppan D, Junker Y, Barisani D. "Celiac disease: from pathogenesis to novel therapies." Gastroenterology 2009; 137(6): 1912-1933
[11] Sollid LM, Khosla C. "Novel therapies for coeliac disease." Journal of internal medicine 2011; 269(6): 604-613.
[12] Green PH, Cellier C. "Celiac disease." New england journal of medicine 2007; 357(17): 1731-1743.
[13] Schumann M, Siegmund B, Schulzke JD, Fromm M. "Celiac disease: role of the epithelial barrier." Cellular and molecular gastroenterology and hepatology 2017; 3(2): 150-162.
[14] Ivarsson A, Hernell O, Stenlund H, Persson LÅ. "Breast-feeding protects against celiac disease." The American journal of clinical nutrition 2002; 75(5): 914-921.
[15] Hörnell A, Lagström H, Lande B, Thorsdottir I. "Breastfeeding, introduction of other foods and effects on health: a systematic literature review for the 5th Nordic Nutrition Recommendations." Food & nutrition research 2013; 57(1): 20823.
[16] Plugis NM, Khosla C. "Therapeutic approaches for celiac disease." Best practice & research Clinical gastroenterology 2015; 29(3): 503-521.
[17] Lewis D, Haridy J, Newnham ED. "Testing for coeliac disease." Aust Prescr 2017; 40(3): 105-108.
[18] Sugai E, Selvaggio G, Vazquez H, Viola M, Mazure R, Pizarro B, Smecuol E, Flores D, Pedreira S, Mauriño E. "Tissue transglutaminase antibodies in celiac disease: assessment of a commercial kit." The American journal of gastroenterology 2000; 95(9): 2318.
[19] Collin P, Mäki M, Keyriläinen O, Hällström O, Reunala T, Pasternack A. "Selective IgA deficiency and coeliac disease." Scandinavian journal of gastroenterology 1992; 27(5): 367-371.
[20] Rubio-Tapia A, Hill ID, Kelly CP, Calderwood AH, Murray JA. "ACG clinical guidelines: diagnosis and management of celiac disease." The American journal of gastroenterology 2013; 108(5): 656.
[21] Schuppan D, Zimmer K-P. "The diagnosis and treatment of celiac disease." Deutsches Ärzteblatt International 2013; 110(49): 835.
[22] Branski D. "New insights in celiac disease." Rambam Maimonides medical journal 2012; 3(1).
[23] Shannahan S, Leffler DA. "Diagnosis and Updates in Celiac Disease." Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am 2017; 27(1): 79-92.
[24] Nilsen E, Lundin K, Krajci P, Scott H, Sollid L, Brandtzaeg P. "Gluten specific, HLA-DQ restricted T cells from coeliac mucosa produce cytokines with Th1 or Th0 profile dominated by interferon gamma." Gut 1995; 37(6): 766-776.
[25] Tripathi A, Lammers KM, Goldblum S, Shea-Donohue T, Netzel-Arnett S, Buzza MS, Antalis TM, Vogel SN, Zhao A, Yang S. "Identification of human zonulin, a physiological modulator of tight junctions, as prehaptoglobin-2." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 2009; 106(39): 16799-16804.
[26] Fasano A, Not T, Wang W, Uzzau S, Berti I, Tommasini A, Goldblum SE. "Zonulin, a newly discovered modulator of intestinal permeability, and its expression in coeliac disease." The Lancet 2000; 355(9214): 1518-1519.
[27] Matysiak-Budnik T, Moura IC, Arcos-Fajardo M, Lebreton C, Ménard S, Candalh C, Ben-Khalifa K, Dugave C, Tamouza H, Van Niel G. "Secretory IgA mediates retrotranscytosis of intact gliadin peptides via the transferrin receptor in celiac disease." Journal of Experimental Medicine 2008; 205(1): 143-154.
[28] Monsuur AJ, de Bakker PI, Alizadeh BZ, Zhernakova A, Bevova MR, Strengman E, Franke L, van't Slot R, van Belzen MJ, Lavrijsen IC, Diosdado B, Daly MJ, Mulder CJ, Mearin ML, Meijer JW, Meijer GA, van Oort E, Wapenaar MC, Koeleman BP, Wijmenga C. "Myosin IXB variant increases the risk of celiac disease and points toward a primary intestinal barrier defect." Nat Genet 2005; 37(12): 1341-1344.
[29] Ontiveros N, Tye‐Din J, Hardy M, Anderson R. "Ex‐vivo whole blood secretion of interferon (IFN)‐γ and IFN‐γ‐inducible protein‐10 measured by enzyme‐linked immunosorbent assay are as sensitive as IFN‐γ enzyme‐linked immunospot for the detection of gluten‐reactive T cells in human leucocyte antigen (HLA)‐DQ 2· 5+‐associated coeliac disease." Clinical & Experimental Immunology 2014; 175(2): 305-315.
[30] Ménard S, Lebreton C, Schumann M, Matysiak-Budnik T, Dugave C, Bouhnik Y, Malamut G, Cellier C, Allez M, Crenn P. "Paracellular versus transcellular intestinal permeability to gliadin peptides in active celiac disease." The American journal of pathology 2012; 180(2): 608-615.
[31] Matysiak-Budnik T, Candalh C, Dugave C, Namane A, Cellier C, Cerf-Bensussan N, Heyman M. "Alterations of the intestinal transport and processing of gliadin peptides in celiac disease." Gastroenterology 2003; 125(3): 696-707.
[32] Ciccocioppo R, Di Sabatino A, Corazza GR. "The immune recognition of gluten in coeliac disease." Clinical & Experimental Immunology 2005; 140(3): 408-416.
[33] Dieterich W, Ehnis T, Bauer M, Donner P, Volta U, Riecken EO, Schuppan D. "Identification of tissue transglutaminase as the autoantigen of celiac disease." Nature medicine 1997; 3(7): 797.
[34] Kim C-Y, Quarsten H, Bergseng E, Khosla C, Sollid LM. "Structural basis for HLA-DQ2-mediated presentation of gluten epitopes in celiac disease." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 2004; 101(12): 4175-4179.
[35] Mazzarella G, Aufiero VR. "Immunoregulation in celiac disease." Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Endoscopy 2016; 1(1): 13-17.
[36] Borrelli M, Salvati VM, Maglio M, Zanzi D, Ferrara K, Santagata S, Ponticelli D, Aitoro R, Mazzarella G, Lania G. "Immunoregulatory pathways are active in the small intestinal mucosa of patients with potential celiac disease." The American journal of gastroenterology 2013; 108(11): 1775.
[37] Faghih M, Barartabar Z, Nasiri Z. "The role of Th1 and Th17 in the pathogenesis of celiac disease." Gastroenterol Hepatol Open Access 2018; 9(2): 83-87.
[38] Asri N, Rostami-Nejad M, Barzegar M, Nikzamir A, Rezaei-Tavirani M, Zali MR. Suppressive Mechanisms Induced by Treg Cells in Celiac Disease. Iranian Biomedical Journal. 2019; accepted.
[39] Daum S, Bauer U, Foss H, Schuppan D, Stein H, Riecken E, Ullrich R. "Increased expression of mRNA for matrix metalloproteinases-1 and-3 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 in intestinal biopsy specimens from patients with coeliac disease." Gut 1999; 44(1): 17-25.
[40] Rauhavirta T, Qiao SW, Jiang Z, Myrsky E, Loponen J, Korponay‐Szabó I, Salovaara H, Garcia‐Horsman J, Venäläinen J, Männistö P. "Epithelial transport and deamidation of gliadin peptides: a role for coeliac disease patient immunoglobulin A." Clinical & Experimental Immunology 2011; 164(1): 127-136.
[41] Halttunen T, Mäki M. "Serum immunoglobulin A from patients with celiac disease inhibits human T84 intestinal crypt epithelial cell differentiation." Gastroenterology 1999; 116(3): 566-572.
[42] Barone MV, Caputo I, Ribecco MT, Maglio M, Marzari R, Sblattero D, Troncone R, Auricchio S, Esposito C. "Humoral immune response to tissue transglutaminase is related to epithelial cell proliferation in celiac disease." Gastroenterology 2007; 132(4): 1245-1253.
[43] Myrsky E, Caja S, Simon-Vecsei Z, Korponay-Szabo IR, Nadalutti C, Collighan R, Mongeot A, Griffin M, Mäki M, Kaukinen K. "Celiac disease IgA modulates vascular permeability in vitro through the activity of transglutaminase 2 and RhoA." Cellular and molecular life sciences 2009; 66(20): 3375-3385.
[44] Heydari F, Rostami-Nejad M, Moheb-Alian A, Mollahoseini MH, Rostami K, Pourhoseingholi MA, Aghamohammadi E, Zali MR. "Serum cytokines profile in treated celiac disease compared with non-celiac gluten sensitivity and control: a marker for differentiation." Journal of Gastrointestinal & Liver Diseases 2018; 27(3).
[45] Hüe S, Mention J-J, Monteiro RC, Zhang S, Cellier C, Schmitz J, Verkarre V, Fodil N, Bahram S, Cerf-Bensussan N. "A direct role for NKG2D/MICA interaction in villous atrophy during celiac disease." Immunity 2004; 21(3): 367-377.
[46] Meresse B, Chen Z, Ciszewski C, Tretiakova M, Bhagat G, Krausz TN, Raulet DH, Lanier LL, Groh V, Spies T. "Coordinated induction by IL15 of a TCR-independent NKG2D signaling pathway converts CTL into lymphokine-activated killer cells in celiac disease." Immunity 2004; 21(3): 357-366.
[47] Forsberg G, Hernell O, Hammarström S, Hammarström M-L. "Concomitant increase of IL-10 and pro-inflammatory cytokines in intraepithelial lymphocyte subsets in celiac disease." International immunology 2007; 19(8): 993-1001.
[48] Meresse B, Curran SA, Ciszewski C, Orbelyan G, Setty M, Bhagat G, Lee L, Tretiakova M, Semrad C, Kistner E. "Reprogramming of CTLs into natural killer–like cells in celiac disease." Journal of Experimental Medicine 2006; 203(5): 1343-1355.
[49] Silvester JA, Rashid M. "Long-term follow-up of individuals with celiac disease: an evaluation of current practice guidelines." Can J Gastroenterol 2007; 21(9): 557-564
[50] Pietzak MM. "Follow-up of patients with celiac disease: achieving compliance with treatment." Gastroenterology 2005; 128 (4 Suppl 1): S135-141.
Published with license by Science and Education Publishing, Copyright © 2019 Nastaran Asri and Mohammad Rostami-Nejad
Nastaran Asri, Mohammad Rostami-Nejad. The Facts of Celiac Disease; A Comprehensive Review. International Journal of Celiac Disease. Vol. 7, No. 2, 2019, pp 48-52. http://pubs.sciepub.com/ijcd/7/2/7
Asri, Nastaran, and Mohammad Rostami-Nejad. "The Facts of Celiac Disease; A Comprehensive Review." International Journal of Celiac Disease 7.2 (2019): 48-52.
Asri, N. , & Rostami-Nejad, M. (2019). The Facts of Celiac Disease; A Comprehensive Review. International Journal of Celiac Disease, 7(2), 48-52.
Asri, Nastaran, and Mohammad Rostami-Nejad. "The Facts of Celiac Disease; A Comprehensive Review." International Journal of Celiac Disease 7, no. 2 (2019): 48-52.
AAHD National Dissemination Center
Healthy Aging & Physical Disability RRTC
NCBDDD Scientific Publication Repository
UNH – Disability and Public Health Project
The AAHD Scholarship Committee and AAHD Board of Directors are pleased to announce the recipients of the 2017-18 AAHD Scholarship Program
On behalf of the board and staff of AAHD, we congratulate the winners and wish them the best of luck in their studies. The 2017-2018 Scholarship Recipients are:
Hanna Hughes, Concorida University, St. Paul, MN
Dylan J. Wells, University of Nebraska at Kearney, Kearney, NE
Lauren L. Barron, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX
Shaina Ghuraya, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
There were numerous applicants for the scholarships this year, reflecting many fine candidates. AAHD would like to thank the applicants who submitted their applications to the AAHDScholarship Program. We encourage those that were not selected to apply again and wish all of them the best of luck in their studies.
AAHD FREDERICK J. KRAUSE SCHOLARSHIP ON HEALTH AND DISABILITY (2018-2019)
The long and distinguished career in disability advocacy and service of Frederick J. Krause began in 1954 when he served as a special education teacher for the Illinois Department of Education. He created a model educational and training curriculum for school aged children with severe intellectual disabilities which became a model for the Nation. Following that, Fred became a Supervising Therapist at the Illinois State School for the Mentally Retarded from 1955-56. Recognizing his leadership abilities, he was promoted to become the Rehabilitation Director of the Illinois Department of Health from 1956-61. From 1961-1969, Fred became the Executive Director of the California Council for Retarded Children, Inc., working to improve the lives of all Californians with intellectual disorders through coordinating the Council's goals and concerns with the State Government Departments of Rehabilitation, Mental Hygiene, Social Welfare and Youth Authority, and Employment.
In recognition of his leadership and administrative skills, Fred was appointed Executive Director of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation and served with great distinction from 1969 – 1983. Among his many contributions as Executive Director, Fred is distinguished as advocating for improving the health and quality of life of individuals with intellectual disabilities through health promotion and disease prevention programs. From 1983 until 1987, Fred held leadership positions in the President's Committee on Employment of the Handicapped (1983-1985), Inspire '85, Federal Interagency Task Force on Disabled Persons (1985-1986), and the Office of Policy and Legislation, OHDS, Department of Health and Human Services (1986-1987).
In 1987, he joined the professional staff as Director of Health and Rehabilitation Affairs, National Association of Partners of the Americas, becoming Director of Rehabilitation Programs from 1990 to 1994. In 1989, he and Dr. Michael Marge founded the American Association on Health and Disability and incorporated the organization as a non-profit dedicated to research, service and advocacy for better health and quality of life for all individuals with disabilities.
Fred became the Chief Operating Officer of the National Head Injury Foundation (later called the Brain Injury Association) in 1994 and served as its Acting President and Chief Executive Officer from 1999- 2000. In 2000, Fred created a nonprofit agency to provide funds and grants to professionals and volunteers to travel and conduct studies for the advancement of the field of developmental disabilities. Even at his community level, Fred continued to make significant contributions to improve the health and quality of life for persons with intellectual disorders. According to the President of the Adams County, PA, The Arc, Fred was an "answer to a prayer." For a number of years, The Arc had not been very active and children and adults with intellectual disorders in Adams County were not receiving a number of needed services. But he volunteered to work closely with The Arc and reactivate it outreach programs and services to the community during a period of eight years. His awards and honors in recognition of his years of distinctive service and contributions are numerous. His lifetime of dedication to all people with disabilities at the national, state and local level is extraordinary and worthy of recognition by this Scholarship in his Honor!
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM CRITERIA: The AAHD Frederick J. Krause Scholarship on Health and Disability is awarded annually to a deserving student with a disability who is pursuing undergraduate/graduate studies (must be at least enrolled as a sophomore in college) in an accredited university who is pursuing studies related to the health and disability, to include, but not limited to public health, health promotion, disability studies, disability research, rehabilitation engineering, audiology, disability policy, special education and majors that will impact quality of life of persons with disabilities.
Applicant must be enrolled as a full time undergraduate student and must have completed one full year of college or more. In other words, the applicant must have sophomore or greater status in a program at a college or university pursuing an undergraduate degree; or enrolled part time or full time in a graduate school, pursuing a post graduate degree.
Important: applicants who have not yet graduated from high school will not be considered. High school students entering college in the fall of 2018 are NOT eligible to apply. The only exception would be for high school students who have achieved sophomore status via high school AP course credits.
FUNDING INFORMATION & APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS: Funds are limited to under $1,000. The AAHD Board of Directors Scholarship Committee will evaluate each of the applicants and make a decision in December of each calendar year. The 2018-2019 Scholarship Award will be awarded in late January-early February 2019. It is the discretion of the Scholarship Committee to determine how many scholarships will be awarded each year and the amount of each scholarship. Applications are due November 15, 2018.
Applicant must provide two (2) Letters of Recommendation (One must be from a teacher or academic advisor). Letters may be sent by U. S. mail or by email attachment and should include the signature of the teacher or advisor, and the name of student should appear in the subject line of the email.
APPLICATION FORM: AAHDScholarship2018-19
Please attach your application, supporting materials, etc. and email to scholarship@aahd.us. Type "2018-19 Scholarship" in subject line. (Please use MS Word or PDF for your personal statement and PDF for all other documents that are emailed as attachments). If this is not possible, please mail your documents to:
Only completed applications will be considered and must be postmarked and/or received by email no later than November 15, 2018.
Select Topic ACA Accessibility Accessible Meetings Accomodations ADA Adolescents Adults Aging Alternative Medicine Arthritis Assistive Technology Asthma Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) Autism Blind/Low Vision Bowel and/or Bladder Dysfunction Brain Injury Cadio Vascular Cancer Caregivers Cerebral Palsy Children Chronic Conditions Cognitive Disabilities Communication Disorder Community Integration Community Participation Community Partnerships Data Deaf Dental Depression Developmental Disability Diabetes Diet Disability Disability Policy Domestic Abuse Down Syndrome Education Elderly Emergency Preparedness Employment Environmental Barriers Environmental Toxins Epilepsy Exercise Falls Prevention HCBS Health Care Disaparities Health Care Utilization Health Disparities Health Education Health Promotion Healthcare Access Healthcare Policy Healthcare Professionals Healthcare Transition Hearing Loss Housing Injury Insurance Intellectual Disability International Learning Disabilities (LD) LGBQT Livable Communities Medicaid Medicare Mental Health Mentoring Military Minorities Mobility Impairment Multiple Sclerosis Muscular Dystrophy Native Americans Needs Assessment Nutrition Obesity Pain Paralysis Personal Assistance Physical Activity Physical Disabilities Poverty Pregnancy Program Evaluation Prosthesis Quality of LIfe Rare Conditions Rural Secondary Conditions Sensory Sexuality Sign Language Smoking Smoking Cessation Social Determinants of Health Social Ecological Framework
The economic case for well-considered investment in health-related employment support: Costs and savings of alternative modified Individual and Placement Support (IPS) models March 9, 2018 Adam Whitworth
Emergency department utilization among people with disabilities in Korea March 8, 2018 Agnus M. Kim, Jin Yong Lee, Jayeun Kim
HCBS BUSINESS ACUMEN CENTER WEBSITE LAUNCHED NASUAD is pleased to announce the HCBS Business Acumen Resource Center's new website, HCBSBusinessAcumen.org! The HCBS Business Acumen Center is a resource center for community-based organizations (CBOs) that serve individuals with disabilities. The resource center provides tools, resources and examples of promising practices that promote the sustainability of disability-focused […]
BROOKINGS LOOKS AT FUTURE OF ACA MARKETPLACE On Tuesday, the Brookings Institution held an event entitled "What's Ahead for the Individual Health Insurance Market?" The event examined the effects that recent actions by the Trump Administration have had on the marketplace. To learn more about the event or for links to the presentation slides or […]
Copyright © 2018 · American Association on Health and Disability · All Rights Reserved · Privacy Policy · Powered by NeuConcept · Log in
Pramipexole dihydrochloride is a medication frequently taken to alleviate Parkinson's disease symptoms. It may also be prescribed for patients with restless legs syndrome (RLS). Pramipexole dihydrochloride is a dopamine agonist, which means that it works by mimicking the effects of dopamine in the brain to allow the patient increased control over his muscle movements.
Those who use this drug to treat restless legs syndrome are typically prescribed one dose daily with or without food. It should be taken about two hours prior to going to sleep, because symptoms of RLS typically worsen at night and can impede sleep. Patients who take pramipexole dihydrochloride to address Parkinson's disease symptoms will typically take a dose three times daily. A doctor may prescribe a low dose to begin the treatment, and then he will gradually increase the dosage on an as needed basis. Patients should avoid discontinuing this drug abruptly, because other symptoms can occur.
Some side effects may occur as a result of taking pramipexole dihydrochloride. Patients should contact their doctor if any of these side effects are persistent or become bothersome: nausea, constipation, and diarrhea, as well as weight loss and loss of appetite. Other side effects can include dizziness, insomnia, and swelling of the extremities. Some patients may experience difficult or frequent urination, confusion, and abnormal muscle movements. Insomnia, abnormal dreams or thoughts, and joint pain can also occur.
Those who experience more serious side effects should seek emergency medical attention. Pramipexole dihydrochloride may also cause hallucinations, severe changes in mood, and memory problems, as well as compulsive behaviors, such as gambling. Increased tremors, chest pain, and an unusually fast or slow heartbeat have also been reported. Dark or red urine, vision changes, and shortness of breath, as well as muscle stiffness can also indicate a serious reaction to the medication.
Patients who are pregnant or breastfeeding should avoid the use of pramipexole dihydrochloride. This drug may also increase the risk of developing skin cancer. Patients should avoid consuming alcohol while taking this medication, because it can increase drowsiness. Those who plan to undergo surgery must inform the surgeon that they are taking the drug.
Before using this drug for Parkinson's disease or restless legs syndrome, patients should disclose all their other medications and supplements, including over-the-counter drugs. Some over-the-counter drugs, such as cough medicine, contain ingredients that can add to drowsiness. Certain products for heartburn or an upset stomach contain cimetidine, which should not be used with pramipexole dihydrochloride. This medicine may also interact with levodopa, antidepressants, and drugs prescribed for mental illness, seizures, or nausea.

A reference price is provided by the seller of the item (yangbeauty). Percentage off and savings amounts are based on the seller's reference price. Sellers are not required to provide a reference price, but if they do, it should be (a) the Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) or similar List Price of the product; or (b) the price at which the item has been recently offered for sale and for a reasonable period of time. The reference price can give you an indication of the value of the product butsome stores may sell the item for less than the reference price. If you feel a reference price is inaccurate or misleading please report it with the URL for the listing to report-abuse@wish.com.
Increase Free Bioavailable Testosterone, TESTOSURGE | CPC Nutrition
TESTOSURGE, Increase Free Bioavailable testosterone levels with this anti-estrogen supplement.
Spikes Testosterone levels!
Increases 'Free Bioavailable' Testosterone
Clinically Proven using Gold Standard Research
(muscle to fat ratio)
Anti-Estrogen – Protecting Testosterone
Increases Anabolic Hormone Status
Increases Free 'Bioavailable' Testosterone
Significantly improved body composition after 8 weeks
Dual-action protection of testosterone-prevents unwanted side effects
Never before has a more revolutionary all-natural, drug-free, cutting-edge ingredient been developed that has been clinically shown to jack test levels faster than new TESTOSURGE™. Working through multiple physiological pathways, TESTOSURGE™ works to quickly raise and then protect your testosterone levels leading to dramatic changes. No more waiting days, weeks, or even months to crank up your testosterone; now you have the ability in just half a day!
In the first of several clinical studies TESTOSURGE™ was evaluated in a randomized, cross-over, double-blind placebo-controlled study design. Results were astonishing! Total testosterone increased 313% over placebo whereas free 'unbound' bioavailable testosterone increased 120% over placebo, in just 10 hours. What is truly outstanding is that these percentages are average increases in all subjects and not just for a couple of extreme cases. Subsequently, in a recent presentation at the prestigious ISSN conference, results of the newest TESTOSURGE™ study showed that body composition significantly improved over 8 weeks of use. Therefore, the acute increases of testosterone seen in a 10 hour period are leading to significant body composition changes when used for 8 weeks.
TESTOSURGE™ offers a researched approach for increasing testosterone levels in trained individuals and the prevention of potential side-effects.
Reach for the fastest testosterone ingredient on the market and formulate with TESTOSURGE™.
Poole et al. (2009). Effects of TESTOSURGE Supplementation on Strength, Body Composition and Hormonal Profiles during an 8-Week Resistance Training Program. JISSN. 6(Suppl 1):P12
