When will doctors start prescribing 'food as medicine?' - THE UNHIVED MIND IV
WIRED HEALTH 2016 29 APRIL 16 by MATTHEW REYNOLDS
http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2016-04/29/food-as-medicine-molly-maloof
Dr Molly Maloof keeps the entrepreneurs of Silicon Valley in peak physical condition, but you won't find many pills on her prescriptions.
You're more likely to go away from an appointment with Maloof with a new Instagram to check out and five app recommendations. That's because she believes that food is the best medicine.
Eighty per cent of the global disease burden is preventable, Maloof, a health optimisation practitioner, told the audience at WIRED Health. And a large part of that is down to bad diet.
Type two diabetes is perhaps the most prevalent preventable disease – in 2013, 5.1 million people died from diabetes and there are as many as 382 million people currently living with the disease, costing the global economy billions of pounds. The diabetes epidemic is so bad that the UK public health journal The Lancet branded it a "public health humiliation."
For Maloof, the answer is simple: "We need to treat the root cause of our disease with better food." That's easier said than done. "Our bodies tell us that doing the wrong thing feels right and doing the right thing feels wrong," warned Maloof.
Using drugs to control bodyweight only exacerbates the problem. Statins are commonly prescribed to limit blood cholesterol and lower the risk the risk of heart attacks and strokes, but are also associated with an 12 per cent increased risk of diabetes. "Are people trading a heart attack for diabetes?" said Maloof.
If drugs can't help us, then it might be time to pay Maloof's clinic a visit. To set her patients on the road to recovery, Maloof prescribes a strict regimen of boxed meal kits (such as Hello Fresh), fresh produce and inspirational food Instagrams. "For most people, it's simple changes over time that have the biggest result," she said.
But not all of Maloof's recommendations are openly available on the internet. Her secret weapon? Nutrigenomics. Maloof uses data from genome sequencing companies like 23andMe to produce a diet plan that she claims is unique to your genetic makeup.
She also runs micronutrient tests that identify the nutrients her patients are low on and then provides a bespoke diet plan to supplement those deficiencies. Add in quarterly data from blood, saliva and stool samples, and Maloof said she can create a diet plan that responds to minute changes within your body.
But a visit to Maloof is only the beginning – her patients have to take control over their own diets to really reap the benefits and there are no quick wins. "The real blockbuster drug of this century is the activated patient," said Maloof. "They have to want better health."
What study materials can a layperson use to gain a deeper understanding of lung cancer? - Medical Sciences Stack Exchange
I am an outsider to the medical sciences, yet now in desperate need of knowledge to help a family member with lung cancer navigate the difficult medical system in our country. I would like to develop the knowledge to be able to read up on, and have educated discussions on treatment options. I have a great deal of time for reading and am confident of my ability to study the background material.
As a layperson, what study materials could help me gain a deeper understanding of lung cancer?
edited Jan 22 '19 at 0:10
Generally, recommendation requests are off topic on almost every SE site. I've posed the question on meta to get a community consensus.
Jan 21 '19 at 14:59
@JohnP I edited the Q to make it more adherent to site guidelines - though I do realize it is still a recommendations type Q that is by nature opinion-based, I feel it had potential to help others seek knowledge on their own.
@Gordon The article you linked to seems reasonable, but the site in general is a bunch of click bait. (That's why they broke the article into 11 pages unnecessarily - to present more ads.) The same information can be found on more reputable sites that don't sell supplements. We prefer such sites here. Also, answering in comments is to be avoided.
Jan 22 '19 at 2:08
@DoctorWhom this is much better. I think the consensus is that recommendation requests are off topic, but this I think dodges that nicely.
Cancer can be one of the most complicated concepts in medicine, not only because of the pathophysiology of cancer, but the complicated statistics involved in the epidemiology of the diseases and interpreting the results of studies on treatments.
If your previous studies have been completely outside of the biological sciences, it will be very difficult to gain the degree of understanding that you seem to want. Even if you have some biology background, at best, you should definitely not expect to gain the expertise to confidently second-guess actual medical providers.
However, I applaud you for your desire to understand as much as possible, and you certainly may be able to learn enough to follow along in conversations about risks and benefits of different treatment options, and to have educated discussions about what is going on with your loved one.
You might FIRST START with patient education websites from the NIH or CDC on the basics of lung cancer, then fill in the gaps of details and background needed using textbooks on the underlying concepts.
For that, these are some of the more popular texts used in medical school, if you are able to get your hands on them, which have good sections on lung cancer.
Robbins and Cotran: Pathological Basis for Disease (or Robbins Basic Pathology)
West: Pulmonology Physiology and also Pathophysiology
Advancing your understanding of the mechanisms underlying cancer development and progression:
Pathoma (the sections on oncogenesis are fantastic)
I would also do some reading on how to interpret the statistics pertinent to cancer, such as odds ratio, relative risk, number needed to treat, sensitivity/specificity, incidence, mortality rates, 5 year survival rates, etc. Statistics are not taught well in most schools these days and additional knowledge is important to being able to understand how decisions are made.
answered Jan 21 '19 at 10:30
Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged cancer lungs or ask your own question.
Littleton Chiropractor - COVID-19: Steps to Protect Your Health & Wellness Naturally
I hope and pray you are all doing well! In the past several weeks, everyone's lives have been turned upside down. COVID-19 literally hit home when my daughter, Jessa, contracted the virus and experienced all the classic symptoms, including the rapidly progressing acute lung distress. Praise be to God; she has recovered as rapidly as her condition progressed. The onset of her condition forced me to gain as much knowledge as quickly as possible to decrease the rapidly developing "cytokine storm" that I saw coming on. As you may know this cytokine storm is the cause of the respiratory failure seen in so many people who have unfortunately succumbed to their illness. I spent the next several days immersed in books, webinars, podcasts, and internet searches and I wish to share the information I have learned with all of you.
The COVID-19 coronavirus binds to ACE-2 receptors on the cells, highest in the heart, lungs, kidneys, and vascular cells, lymph, and spleen.
After binding the body's immune response is to release inflammatory chemicals called cytokines. This process is upregulated leading to fever, body aches, but also a possible massive infiltrative process in the lungs. This could in some (not most) lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
The level of "cytokine storm" is under the control of Inflammasomes. The more inflammation reaction, the greater the chance for cytokine storm and increased risk of death from coronavirus. The two cytokines that seem to be most upregulated are IL-1B, IC-6, IFN-y, TNF-a. One particular cytokine-like protein has been implicated in sepsis-induced cytokine storms: High mobility group Box 1 protein (HMGB1). The higher the cytokine level, the higher the HMGB1is. These HMGB1 levels at peak will last 18 hours before they begin to decline. When HMGB1 is expressed in lung tissue it causes massive neutrophil (white blood cell) into the lungs and acute lung injury. As the storm progresses respiratory failure (requiring mechanical ventilation), acute renal failure and systemic shock all occur.
Possible Coronavirus Intervention
A. Inhibit Inflammasomes that Initiate Cytokine Cascade
Vitamin C Blocks Inflammasomes. Many have heard IV Vit C was highly effective in a Chinese study to halt coronavirus and is now being utilized in U.S. hospitals to treat acute coronavirus.
Melatonin. Blocks inflammasomes and is highest in young people and lowest in older people. Electropollution from EMFs such as Wi-Fi, cell phones, iPads, computers, and all cell phone towers have been proven to interfere with pineal gland function and decreasing melatonin.
Nitric oxide. Blocks inflammasomes. Your body makes its own nitric oxide, but it can be increased by taking beet powder and the amino acids arginine citrulline and ornithine. Additionally, vitamin C increases nitric oxide.
B. Inhibition of HMGB1 via Specific Herbs
Licorice-directly binds HMGB1 rendering it inactive
Green and black tea (EGCG)
C. ACE-2 Herbal and Viral Docking Inhibitors
Allicillin (garlic)
D. ACE-2 Expression Protection
E. Reducing Cytokines Decrease IL-1B
F. Decreasing IL-6-Cytokine
ECCG – green and black tea
Oregano, sage, bay leaf
Vit D3, zinc, magnesium, Co-Q10 and PQQ
Sulforaphane (broccoli sprouts)
G. Protecting Lung Cells from hypoxia
Rhodiola – prevents hypoxia-induced oxidative damage, increases intracellular oxygen diffusion and increased efficiency of oxygen utilization.
H. Lung Cilia Protective Herbs
I. Lymph and Spleen Protection
J. Lung Immunity
Cordyceps – stimulates dendritic cell maturation
Licorice, red root, elderberry, and zinc stimulate T-cell counts
Some other herbs found specific for prior SARS coronavirus are Chinese Skullcap, houttuynia, isatis, licorice, artemisia annua (wormwood), eucalyptus, Gentiana, lonicera japonica, Japanese knotweed, and Panax ginseng Andrographis may be helpful for those infected with COVID-19.
Steps You Can Take to Protect Your Health and Wellness
Some estimates state that most of the population will be exposed to the COVID-19 coronavirus. Currently, there is no vaccine and often testing is reserved for only the extremely ill. So, with this understood it behooves us to take a strong stance with general wellness and health to also bolster a strong immune defense. You may be asking, "What else can I do?".
Get plenty of sleep. Study after study suggests sleep boosts immunity via several mechanisms.
Eat a healthy nutritious diet. Garbage in/garbage out. Your immunity will be garbage if you don't eat well. One serving of sugar can decrease white blood cell function by 50% for 8 hours. Foods high in sulforaphane such as broccoli and brussels sprouts are a good choice because they help decrease IL-6 that contributes to the cytokine storm. Garlic and onions have antiviral activity. Fruit, foods high in anthocyanins and polyphenols such as blueberries, elderberry, cinnamon, and grapes help block viral docking on the ACE-2 receptor.
Exercise. Daily exercise with some kind of movement has been proven over and over to help boost immunity. It also helps with proper lymphatic motion to prevent toxic stagnation.
Check your Mental Health. These are very trying times for all, and anxiety and fear will weaken your immune system. Anxiety is fostered by an unknown future and certainly, we are all facing many unknowns. I take comfort in my faith knowing that I can control only what is in my control and the rest I leave for God. My own beliefs have encouraged me to "stay in peace" during times of trouble. Instead of focusing on your uncertainties, shift your consciousness to greater mankind and consider donating money or time and help one another in any way you can. Maybe this will be how the world will truly heal!
Basic Immune Supplemental Support "If you're not sick with COVID-19."
Vitamin C – preferably buffered 4000 mg/day
Vitamin D3 – preferably emulsified 4000 IU/day
Elderberry syrup 1 tsp. 2x/day not with cytokine storm
Glutathione – preferably liposomal 1 tsp/day
Lauricidin (monolaurin) – 1 scoop/day
If you are a patient of Dr. Arne's or Dr. Herzog's and are interested in further information regarding this post, a telehealth conference with your chiropractor may be scheduled for further assistance with proper immune support for your specific health needs. God Bless, stay healthy, safe and stay in peace!
Dr. Robert Arne, DC, DABCI
The information in this posting is for informative purposes only and came from several different sources. The information provided has been obtained from sources that primarily had research on a prior coronavirus family of viruses including SARS and MERS. There is no research to state that those herbal treatments will specifically treat COVID-19 novel-coronavirus. The information provided in this posting is not intended to provide treatment specifically to COVID-19 and any attempt to use these herbal products without proper practitioner guidance could be harmful to your health. Dr. Arne is not intending to diagnose, treat, or cure anyone with the novel COVID-19 coronavirus with the information that has been provided in this post.
We have a drug overdose crisis, not a prescription opioid crisis | TheHill
By Dr. Lynn R. Webster, opinion contributor — 11/16/17 05:40 PM EST
A recent New York Times op-ed by Nicolas Kristof, "Drug Dealers in Lab Coats," begins by citing "63,000" drug overdose deaths in 2016. In the next sentence, Kristof implies that these were exclusively opioid-related deaths. But they weren't. The 63,000 drug-related deaths involved all drugs including cocaine, benzodiazepines, and methamphetamines.
In a recent story, CNN also misreported the data. To quote the original story, "The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expects opioid overdose deaths to top 64,000 in 2016 when the numbers are finalized." To its credit, CNN corrected the error and modified the statement to say the number reflected "drug overdoses." CNN also added the sentence, "Most of these overdoses involved an opioid." But this was after the inaccurate information had been posted online and was widely read.
The Los Angeles Times unabashedly claimed that the opioid crisis "killed more than 64,000 Americans" last year. That is also untrue.
Governor Chris Christie explained his belief recently on National Public Radio (NPR) that opioids kill 175 Americans each day. If true, that would mean there would be a total of 63,875 opioid-related deaths in one year. The Washington Post cites the 175 deaths per day as well. Again, the data does not support these statements.
We've grown so used to hearing about the opioid crisis that, when we hear about drug overdoses, it's easy to reach the conclusion that the words "opioids" and "drugs" mean the same thing. However, they do not. Many media reports — and the ones I cited above are just a sampling —obfuscate that fact. Intelligent media consumers, as well as policymakers, can become confused.
There is additional confusion associated with opioid painkillers and illicit opioids. Though both are opioids, the first group is used for a legitimate medical purpose while the second group is not.
So let's be clear about this. When we read that there have been 63,000 or 64,000 drug overdose deaths, that does not mean they are deaths from prescription opioids.
Although most drug overdoses involve an opioid, that includes opioids without a medical purpose such as heroin and synthetic fentanyl products that found their way to America from China and Mexico.
Prescription painkillers certainly contribute to the crisis, but it is impossible to determine the extent to which they are involved for at least two reasons. First, heroin is metabolized into morphine which is often mis-categorized as a prescription opioid at autopsy.
To further complicate matters, fentanyl can be either prescribed for pain or smuggled from foreign countries. So, while a fentanyl-related death may be appropriately counted as a prescription opioid death, most of the increase in overdoses is from illegal fentanyl analogues.
Researching this article and ensuring its accuracy was difficult, because the available information is incomplete and, in some cases, conflicting. That said, the preliminary 2016 reports of drug overdoses indicate that about 3 out of 4, or 75 percent, of drug-related deaths appear to involve a substance other than a prescribed opioid. Therefore, of the estimated 63,000 overdose deaths, only 1 out of 4 (or 25 percent) — that is, 16,000 — are associated with prescription opioids.
We need to recognize that the opioid epidemic has shifted away from prescription opioids. The number of recent overdoses of non-prescription drugs have eclipsed the original problem of prescribed painkillers.
Yet, most reports, including the President's Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, conflate the overdose data into one alarming figure that misleads policymakers into proposing interventions that don't address the primary source of the problem.
The approach we are taking is dangerous, because attempting to curb the number of drug deaths by hyper-focusing on prescription opioids is like calling the fire department to extinguish one house fire while the surrounding three houses next door burn to the ground.
Preventing every overdose death is important, whether or not it involves prescribed opioids.
President Trump has missed an opportunity to redirect his commission to address the larger drug crisis. We know he pays attention to the media.
Let's hope the media will be more discerning with its reporting and ask policymakers what they are doing about the tragic overdose problem from drugs that are not prescription opioids.
Lynn R. Webster, M.D. is a past president of American Academy of Pain Medicine, author of The Painful Truth and co-producer of the Public Television documentary, "The Painful Truth." Dr. Webster consults and advises opioid manufacturers. You can find him on Twitter: @LynnRWebsterMD.
Question: Can Prostatitis Be Caused By Not Ejaculating? - majdooronline.com
Question: Can Prostatitis Be Caused By Not Ejaculating?
Can abstinence cause prostatitis?
Can a woman give a man prostatitis?
Is prostatitis permanent?
Acute prostatitis is caused by a bacterial infection of the prostate gland and will be treated with antibiotic tablets. Most people will need a four-week course. Your symptoms should pass within two weeks, but it's very important that you finish the course of antibiotics to prevent the infection returning.
Note that many spouses do drainage themselves to help their husbands reduce prostatitis symptoms. Many men with prostatitis have managed to conceive children.
Prostatitis is not caused by sexual abstinence. Male body accommodates itself to such situation and adjusts the sexual function. On the contrary, an active sexual life or uncontrolled sexual behavior often cause prostatitis, because men may easily get STDs and, consequently, prostatitis. By no means always.
Stress can have a significant impact on both types of Prostatitis. It worsens the symptoms of bacterial Prostatitis, but it also has a role in non-bacterial Prostatitis. The association between psychological disorders and chronic pelvic pain (CP) has recently garnered much attention.
Acute prostatitis starts quickly. Long-term (chronic) prostatitis lasts for 3 months or more. Ongoing irritation of the prostate that is not caused by bacteria is called chronic nonbacterial prostatitis.
Are You Sure That's What the Doctor Said About Your Leukemia? – AHealthyMe – Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts
THURSDAY, Nov. 2, 2017 (HealthDay News) -- The stress of a frightening leukemia diagnosis may impede clear doctor-patient communication, a new study suggests.
Patients undergoing chemotherapy treatment for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) tend to view their illness and prognosis through a different lens from their doctors, researchers say.
Investigators found that patients are inclined to overestimate their risk of dying due to treatment and, at the same time, overestimate their chances for a full cure.
"Patients with AML face very challenging treatment decisions that are often placed upon them within days after being diagnosed," said senior study author Dr. Areej El- Jawahri.
"Because they face a grave decision, they need to understand what the risks of treatment are versus the possibility of a cure," said El-Jawahri, an assistant professor of medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
Adult AML is a type of cancer generally seen in older people in which the bone marrow makes abnormal white blood cells, red blood cells or platelets. Chemotherapy, radiation, drug therapy or a stem cell transplant can be used as treatment, according to the Cleveland Clinic.
Investigators focused on 100 AML patients. Half were in intensive care for four to six weeks, while the other half were mostly treated as outpatients. On average, patients were 71 years old.
Roughly three days after starting treatment, the patients and their doctors completed surveys.
More than 6 out of 10 patients said it was "somewhat likely" they would die because of treatment, and almost 30 percent said it was "extremely likely" they would die. However, 8 in 10 of the cancer doctors said that scenario was very unlikely.
Another survey one month later revealed other misunderstandings. While 90 percent of patients believed it was either somewhat or very likely they would ultimately be cured, three-quarters of the doctors thought it was somewhat or very unlikely that a cure was in the offing.
The gap was especially wide between doctors and outpatients. Researchers found 44 percent of outpatients thought they were very likely achieve a cure, but none of the doctors shared that view.
The five-year survival rate for people with AML is approximately 27 percent, according to the American Cancer Society.
The findings were recently presented at a meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology and other groups, in San Diego.
"There were several very important factors we were not able to capture in our study, including what was actually discussed between patients and their oncologists, and whether patients simply misunderstood or misheard the information conveyed to them," El-Jawahri said in a meeting news release.
Still, the urgency of decision-making required with AML may contribute to differences in perception, the researchers said. Previous work with patients treated for other types of cancer didn't uncover such pronounced distortions.
Since 1982, Uncas Veterinary Clinic has provided exceptional service and personalized care to each and every patient. Offering wellness exams, soft tissue surgery, maintenance dentistry and dental surgery. Our facility has a wide range of in-house diagnostic equipment to compliment our services such as a comprehensive laboratory, ultrasound and radiography equipment.
We are located in rural Strathcona County, Alberta, 15 minutes east of Sherwood Park and 25 minutes east of Edmonton. We offer evening and weekend appointments throughout the week to ensure we can meet all your veterinary needs
We take pride in the fact that we deliver the most effective treatment options available, and we’re constantly updating our equipment, techniques and education to offer the best possible care to our customers.
Click, call or visit Uncas Veterinary Clinic today! We’re committed to providing you and your pet with superior care and excellent service.
We are taking appropriate measures to decrease the spread of Covid-19 while we continue to serve our patients and clientele.
All clients will receive communication prior to their appointment regarding the procedures we are taking. Thank you and take care!
Contact Us
Dental
Surgery
Diagnostic Services
Wellness Services
Meet our Veterinarians
Learn Who We Are
Dr. Kim Robinson
Dr. Robinson came to join the team of Uncas Veterinary Clinic in June of 2016. After graduating from WCVM in 2004 Kim and her husband Joel, also a veterinarian, moved to Sherwood Park and have practiced locally since. Kim is a passionate and devoted veterinarian who has spent many years practicing in both regular practices, physical rehabilitation hospitals and emergency clinics.
Read More
Dr. Tanya Marrazzo
She graduated from the Western College of Veterinary Medicine in 2004. After working at a variety of different clinics in the Edmonton area, Tanya came to Uncas Veterinary Clinic in June 2016. Tanya enjoys working with cats, dogs, rabbits, other exotic small companion mammals, and birds. She has a special interest in dentistry and is an excellent surgeon, particularly enjoying soft tissue surgery.
Read More
Dr. Averell Forbes, D.V.M.
Bio Coming Soon
Read More
Dr. Dr. Bob Jones BA. D.V.M.
After graduating from the Western College of Veterinary Medicine in 1973, Bob accepted an internship at Purdue University (Indiana, USA) in equine medicine and surgery. From there, he completed a residency in Equine Orthopedic Surgery at the Ohio State University.
Hidradenitis Suppurativa Program Offers Specialized Treatment for "Nameless" Skin Condition | Division of Dermatology | Albert Einstein College of Medicine
Home > Departments > Medicine > Divisions > Dermatology > Hidradenitis Suppurativa Program Offers Specialized Treatment for "Nameless" Skin Condition
April 12, 2015 - BRONX, NY - The Einstein Montefiore Division of Dermatology is pleased to announce the launch of its Hidradenitis Suppurativa Program for patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS). The HS Program will centralize a network of dermatologists, plastic surgeons, nutritionists, gastroenterology specialists, and psychologists with expertise in managing HS.
HS is a chronic inflammatory disease with recurrent abscesses in areas including the underarms, breasts, groin, and/or buttocks. It can cause considerable scarring and, in more severe cases, create sinus tracts (infection-prone channels) and fistulae (abnormal passageways connecting multiple abscesses). At its worst, HS is a painful, psychologically damaging, physically debilitating condition.
"Despite the fact that HS is a very common disease with devastating consequences, its awkward name is unfamiliar to the public and to most health care workers," said Dr. Steven Cohen, Professor of Medicine and Chief of the Division of Dermatology. "More often than not, HS has a hugely negative impact on quality of life."
While its cause(s) remain poorly understood, HS is considered by physicians and investigators to be a primary disease of the hair follicles. Given that a third of patients have one or more relatives who are also affected, a genetic mutation may also be involved.
Michelle A. Lowes, MD, PhD
The Hidradenitis Suppurativa Program, including HS Treatment and Research Centers, is co-directed by Dr. Cohen and Dr. Michelle Lowes. Dr. Cohen specializes in the care of patients with HS and has been awarded grants to develop an HS Registry and Quality of Life Study to better understand the nature of this devastating disease. Dr. Lowes joined Montefiore Einstein in October 2014 as Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine, bringing a longstanding dermatological research background with focus on chronic immunological skin diseases. Educated and trained in Australia, she was formerly with the Laboratory for Investigative Dermatology at Rockefeller University.
Dr. Cohen and Dr. Lowes conceived the HS Treatment Program after observing unusually large and increasing numbers of patients with the disease in Montefiore's outpatient facilities throughout the Bronx. "We feel the HS Program will enable us to provide the highest quality care for victims of the disease, including the broadest range of medical, psychological, nutritional, and surgical treatment options," said Dr. Cohen.
The Center's innovative, patient-tailored treatment approach may include minor surgery or medications such as topical and oral antibiotics, vitamin A analogues, and anti-TNF biologics. Laser and/or plastic reconstructive surgery may be involved in severe cases. Services for weight loss and smoking cessation (both known to exacerbate HS), pain management, and a support group for patients living with HS will also be integrated into the program.
The HS Treatment Program, located at the Montefiore Hutchinson Campus (Hutchinson Metro Center, 1250 Waters Place), accepts patients on alternate Monday mornings beginning Monday, April 13. Patients who wish to make an appointment, and physicians interested in referring patients or becoming involved in the Center, should contact Dr. Lowes (mlowes@montefiore.org) or Dr. Cohen (srcohen@montefiore.org).
French regulator says up to 4,100 children victims of epilepsy drug | GulfNews.com
April 20, 2018 | Last updated 58 minutes ago
Valproate was approved as an anti-epileptic drug in France in 1967
Published: 17:22 April 20, 2017
Paris: An estimated 2,150 to 4,100 children in France suffered a major malformation in the womb between 1967 and 2016 after their mothers took a treatment against epilepsy and bipolar disorders known as valproate, France's drug regulator said on Thursday.
Valproate, which has been manufactured in France by Sanofi under the brand Depakine in the field of epilepsy and Depakote and Depamide in bipolar disorders, is also believed to cause slow neurological development.
ANSM, France's drug authority, said it would also publish a study on neurological effects in the second half of 2017.
Valproate was approved as an anti-epileptic drug in France in 1967 and has become one of the most widely prescribed treatments for the condition worldwide.
Parents of those affected say the French state and Sanofi were too slow to warn of the side effects of the drug, after the risks to foetuses became clear by the early 1980s.
Omlek-D Capsule | Price,Uses,Side Effects | Drugcarts
Omlek-D Capsule
You Save : Rs.5.65 Inclusive of all taxes
Medical Description of Omlek-D Capsule
Omlek-D Capsule contains Omeprazole 20mg and Domperidone 10mg . Omeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor, the anti-ulcer agent used to relieve acid-related indigestion and heartburn in the stomach. Domperidone is a Dopamine-2 receptor antagonist acts as a prokinetic which works on the upper digestive tract, allows food easily through the stomach. This medicine is contraindicated to allergic symptoms such as skin rashes, itching, swelling, breathing difficulties, etc, liver dysfunction, electrolyte imbalance, heart diseases, and pituitary gland tumor (prolactin imbalance).Omlek-D (Omeprazole 20mg + Domperidone 10mg) is used in the treatment of the following conditions such as Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and Gastric acid-related disorders.
Omlek-D Capsule Uses
Omlek-D (Omeprazole 20mg + Domperidone 10mg) is used in the treatment of the following conditions such as Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and Gastric acid-related disorders.
Omlek-D Capsule Benefits
GERD occurs due to stomach acid frequently flows backwards direction from the stomach to the oesophagus, leads to developing heartburn, and acid indigestion. Primarily it can manage lifestyle changes, and using OTC (Over counter) medicines. Also, sometimes need surgery. Omlek-D (Omeprazole (20mg) + Domperidone (10mg)) Capsule is used to treat this backflow acid secretion in the stomach.
Gastric acid-related disorders include gastric ulcers, duodenal ulcers, chronic gastritis, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome leads to develop heartburn, indigestion, chest pain, chest discomfort, etc. It occurs due to excessive acid secretion in the stomach. Omlek-D (Omeprazole 20mg + Domperidone 10mg) Capsule is used to treat these acid-related disorders.
Omlek-D Capsule Indication
Omlek-D Capsule consists of Omeprazole + Domperidone is used in the treatment of the following conditions such as Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and Gastric acid related disorders.
Mechanism of action of Omlek-D Capsule
How Omlek-D Capsule works
Omlek-D Capsule Contraindication
Omlek-D Capsule Side Effects
FAQs for Omlek-D Capsule
Does Omlek-D Capsule contain habit-forming drug?
What is the time duration for Omlek-D Capsule to react on body?
Precautions and general warning of Omlek-D Capsule
How to Take Omlek-D Capsule
Use of Omlek-D Capsule in Adult
Use of Omlek-D Capsule in children
Omlek-D Capsule (Omeprazole + Domperidone) is not prescribed in children under 18 years of age.
Use of Omlek-D Capsule in Elderly Patients
Omlek-D Capsule consists of Omeprazole + Domperidone is used in the treatment of the following conditions as Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and Gastric acid-related disorders.
Drug Interaction of Omlek-D Capsule
Likewise, Omlek-D (Omeprazole 20mg + Domperidone 10mg) Capsule is better, try to finish your dinner three hours before going to bed, for reducing the acid secretion in the stomach.
A Product Omlek-D Capsule will be supplied by the licensed vendor partner in your nearest delivery location. On accepting the order , the details of licensed vendor partner details will share with you before the supply of your order. Orders acceptances depends on the availability of the medicine and with valid prescription from the registered medical practitioner (Doctor).
