The Australian Curriculum | Australian Curriculum Review – Consultation Survey Privacy notice
Australian Curriculum Review – Consultation Survey Privacy notice
This notice is to advise you that personal information about you may be collected for the Australian Curriculum Review – Consultation Survey.
On 12 June 2020, education ministers agreed that ACARA review the Foundation – Year 10 Australian Curriculum, which had been in place since 2015. Read the review's Terms of reference (PDF 94 kb). You can obtain further information about this review here.
The purpose of this survey is to obtain both quantitative and qualitative data from stakeholders on the proposed revisions to the Australian Curriculum released for consultation from 29 April-8 July 2021. This survey will be the main methodology used to gather feedback. This will inform reports on the proposed changes. Reports may include feedback that you provide to ACARA as part of this review (excluding your personal name and any other information that could identify you personally).
ACARA is not intending to collect people's names, email addresses or other contact information in relation to this survey. ACARA is collecting the name of the organisation that is completing the survey. Survey respondents may identify themselves when providing comments. For this reason, ACARA is treating the survey results as if they contain personal information.
ACARA will be using Survey Monkey to host the survey and collect the data on ACARA's behalf. These hosting services are located outside Australia. ACARA notes the information provided at (https://help.surveymonkey.com/articles/en_US/kb/SurveyMonkey-Data-Transfers-and-EU-Laws?bc=Your_Data#storage):
"As a global company, SurveyMonkey has data centers in the US, Ireland, and Canada. Most European customer data lives on servers in the US, as outlined in our Privacy Notice and white paper. We rely on inter-company agreements including standard contractual clauses to transfer your personal data to our servers in the US maintained by our US parent company, SurveyMonkey Inc".
"We provide customer support services from our US, European, Australian, and Canadian offices to ensure around-the-clock coverage. Some data may be exported or accessed for legitimate and beneficial purposes to provide support from outside of Europe".
For more privacy information regarding Survey Monkey, please read Survey Monkey's privacy summary information, which includes a link to their privacy notice.
ACARA will download the survey data from Survey Monkey. ACARA protects the data it collects in accordance with the standards in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). For further information, see ACARA's privacy policy (acara.edu.au/contact-us/privacy).
It is open to survey respondents to ensure that they do not include their name or contact details in the survey commentary. The main consequence if respondents do not complete the survey is that ACARA will not obtain your feedback on the proposed revisions to the Australian Curriculum.
ACARA will disclose the survey data to our contractor who will undertake an independent analysis of the data and prepare reports.
After ACARA collects the survey data from Survey Monkey, ACARA is not able to match information it holds with an individual, unless an individual has identified themselves in the comments section of the survey.
If you have identified yourself in the comments section of the survey and wish to access or correct this information, you may contact ACARA (https://www.acara.edu.au/contact-us).
Hospitalist - Neurology Opportunity | Mercy Health Muskegon | Physician Jobs | PracticeMatch.com | 477464
Mercy Health Muskegon has an excellent full time employment opportunity for a Board Certified or Board Eligible Neurology Hospitalist to join an existing team under the leadership of Dr. Philip B. Gorelick located in Muskegon, Michigan.
The Hauenstein Neurosciences Center, led by Philip B. Gorelick, MD, MPH, is recognized by the National Association of Epilepsy Centers as a Level 4 epilepsy center. Our center is one of only four comprehensive centers in Michigan; and the only comprehensive epilepsy program in West Michigan. Dr. Gorelick is a world renowned expert who has been recognized as one of the Top Stroke Neurologists in the United States, the interdisciplinary team at Mercy Health offers a depth and background of experience and expertise that is unparalleled in the region.
MHM has the only Parkinson's program in West Michigan and is the only hospital in the Midwest to administer the DaTscan, a new scanning procedure that helps confirm a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.
Mercy Health Hauenstein Neurosciences exists to provide effective diagnosis and comprehensive treatment of complex neurological disorders. Here you can access the largest and most experienced team of nationally recognized neurological experts in West Michigan — fellowship-trained physicians specializing in the areas of epilepsy, spine and brain disorders, Parkinson's disease, sleep disorders, stroke, dementia, and overall nervous system care.
This is an exciting opportunity for the right Neurology physician to be part of our team at Mercy Health Muskegon.
Osage Nation plans mass COVID-19 vaccination event
Osage Nation plans mass vaccination event
Osage Nation Health Services announced several COVID-19 vaccination distribution events for this week, including a major event from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday, March 27, at the Osage Casino Hotel Event Center in Tulsa for persons 18 and older. That mass vaccination event is intended as an outreach to both the Native and non-native populations.
The Osage Nation said in an online post the evening of March 17 that it had administered 3,661 doses of COVID-19 vaccine between Dec. 16 and March 17.
The Osage Nation has increasingly reached out beyond its own population to offer COVID-19 prevention services to members of other Native groups, and to the non-native population. It has done so at a time when high quality health care is increasingly a key concern for its leadership.
In his March 11 State of the Nation address, Principal Chief Geoffrey Standing Bear called for discussion regarding what he referred to as a "new Osage Nation health care system." Standing Bear said he had been working with Osage Congresswoman Paula Stabler, with Osage Nation health officials, and with attorneys and architects "to grow our health system into a new facility with new capabilities."
Stabler filed legislation regarding the creation of a new Osage Nation health care system, to be considered in a tribal congressional session beginning next Monday, March 29.
On a smaller scale, but potentially of considerable effectiveness in delivering health services, Osage Nation Health Services announced last week that it has acquired a new "medical coach", and the vehicle is going to allow health personnel to get out into communities more.
In yet another measure intended to help promote health and general welfare, the Osage Nation Congress recently approved a $74,000 grant to the city of Pawhuska's Public Works Authority to help provide water service to nearly 50 customers located generally to the west of the city. The Osage Nation funding is helping Pawhuska to respond to a request for help from a distressed rural water district.
The Osage Nation's commercial interests also continue to grow, with groundbreaking events anticipated soon for casino hotel facilities in the Pawhuska and Bartlesville areas.
... has "paw-sitive" effects on brain injury patients A good diet can help eliminate bipolar disorder symptoms - review Heart, muscles, mind: Vitamin D helps your body in many ways 7 ...
Furthermore, singing can help improve communication, participation, and social engagement of people with psychosis, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. In a study, it was revealed ...
http://www.natural.news/...physical-benefits-of-singing.html
The mental and physical benefits of singing - NaturalNews.com
... Furthermore, singing can help improve communication, participation, and social engagement of people with psychosis, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. In a study, it was revealed ...
https://www.naturalnews.com/...ical-benefits-of-singing.html
Everything you need to know about using St. John's wort for depression - NaturalNews...
... So do not take it alongside pharmaceutical antidepressants. Also, avoid it if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or suffer from bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. If you are taking ...
https://www.naturalnews.com/...ohns-wort-for-depression.html
New science proves YOGA really works for treating depression, but only if you stick...
... Research reveals link between opioid misuse among older people and higher suicide risk A good diet can help eliminate bipolar disorder symptoms - review Heart, muscles, mind: ...
https://www.naturalnews.com/...nly-if-you-stick-with-it.html
Big Pharma's dream come true: Electronic smart pills contain computer chips that...
... In 2017, the FDA approved the first digital pill containing aripiprazone, a chemical used for managing schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The human-to-human connection, the ...
https://www.naturalnews.com/...-smart-pills-chips-track.html
Follow a better diet for improved mental health: Mania risk increases when you consume...
... In addition, they had differences in several molecular brain pathways associated with bipolar disorder. The researchers say that their findings contribute to the evidence that ...
https://www.naturalnews.com/...eats-increase-mania-risk.html
... A highly-influential researcher at Harvard University, Dr. Biederman spearheaded a 4000% increase in the diagnosis of pediatric bipolar disorder from 1994 to 2003, resulting in ...
http://www.naturalnews.com/index_1_1_652.html
... was far more narrow than the aggressive marketing campaign for the treatment of bipolar disorder which GSK had in place both before and after the June 2003 approval. 52. GSK also ...
NaturalNewsBlogs More Evidence: Crime Not Linked to Mental Illness
... of a mental health court located in Minneapolis, MN. These offenders suffered from three major types of mental illness: major depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder. ...
Rebus Bio Continues Expansion of Industry-leading Spatial Omics Platform with Breakthrough High-Plex Technology – enlightenbio Blog
AnnouncementsEmerging technologies/applicationsM&As and partnershipsPress Release
EEL assay overcomes well-known limitations in spatial biology
SANTA CLARA, Calif. & STOCKHOLM–(BUSINESS WIRE)–Rebus Biosystems Inc, ("Rebus Bio", "Rebus"), an Illumina Ventures-backed life science technology company creating revolutionary tools to advance spatial omics research, today announced that it has acquired the IP and related assay assets of EEL Transcriptomics AB, a privately-held company focused on high-plex spatial transcriptomics with single-cell resolution. Terms of the deal are not being disclosed.
The Rebus Esper™ spatial omics platform helps researchers better understand the biology of tissues, leading to advancements in neuroscience, cancer, infectious disease and immunology by allowing routine quantitative analysis of tens of millions of cellular features across hundreds of thousands of cells. Running the Enhanced Electric FISH (EEL)assay on the Esper platform enables spatial transcriptomics with single-cell resolution and has the potential to scale to more than 5,000 genes.
"This acquisition delivers on our promise to continue to expand the platform and enable research from discovery through clinical research. The EEL assay is highly synergistic with Rebus Esper's Synthetic Aperture Optics technology, delivering unprecedented combination of plex number, throughput, resolution and sensitivity," said Paul Sargeant, PhD, chief executive officer of Rebus Biosystems. "By adding EEL to our assay library, Esper is now the only single cell spatial transcriptomics technology on the market that will enable discovery through translational research. This will more effectively yield improved, simple spatial workflows for a variety of sample types and disease areas on one platform."
EEL Transcriptomics was co-founded by Sten Linnarsson, Ph.D., Rebus scientific advisor and pioneer in the field of neuroscience single-cell genomics and single-cell RNA sequencing, with graduate student Lars Borm, senior scientist, Simone Codeluppi, and other members of Dr. Linnarsson's lab at Sweden's Karolinska Institute.
"With the addition of the EEL assay to the Esper system, researchers can overcome well-known challenges in spatial multi-omics, enabling the analysis of large gene panels across wide image fields in human brain samples," said Dr. Linnarsson. "Our EEL assay already allows us to peer into the human brain in ways we have never previously been able to do, revealing both the beauty of the healthy brain and the terrifying spatial complexity of human brain tumors."
The EEL assay will be available for use on the Esper system through early access in the first half of 2022 and commercially available in June of 2022. This technology will be easily applicable to a wide range of sample types, including fresh frozen and Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE).
Author / source: Rebus Biosystems / https://rebusbio.com/press-releases/rebus-bio-continues-expansion-of-industry-leading-spatial-omics-platform-with-breakthrough-high-plex-technology/
brain brain tumor cancer EEL Transcriptomics Esper FFPE FISH Formalin-fixed Paraffin-Embedded Illumina immunology infectious disease intellectual property IP Karolinska Institute Lars Borm neuroscience omics Paul Sargeant Rebus Rebus Biosystems Rebus Esper Simone Coeluppi single-cell Spatial Omics Sten Linnarsson Synthetic Aperture Optics tissue
Heart failure drugs 'could save up to 30,000 lives a year': Study urges wider use of medicines to dilate blood vessels | The Independent
NewsUK Heart failure drugs 'could save up to 30,000 lives a year': Study urges wider use of medicines to dilate blood vessels
INCREASED use of drugs known as Ace inhibitors to treat heart failure could save nearly 30,000 lives and pounds 50m a year in direct costs to the National Health Service, experts said yesterday.The drugs, whose main action is to dilate blood vessels, could dramatically reduce the number of hospital admissions which account for 60 per cent of the cost of treating heart failure to the NHS.
An independent study of the costs of heart failure by Dr John McMurray, a consultant cardiologist, and two health economists from the Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, says that for every 1,000 heart-failure patients treated for three years there would be 50 fewer deaths and 350 fewer hospital admissions.
Dr Philip Poole-Wilson, British Heart Foundation professor of cardiology at the National Heart and Lung Institute, London, said good evidence of the effectiveness of Ace inhibitors had been established over the past two or three years.
'Here is a medical advance whose action in actively reducing mortality is rarely seen in medicine,' he said. 'In Britain we think that 10 to 15 per cent of the population with heart failure have these drugs. It should be 60 to 70 per cent.'
He said heart failure affects 1 per cent of the population and accounts for 5 per cent of hospitals stays. About half die within four years and those with severe heart failure are unlikely to survive for more than a year.
Heart failure is the condition in which heart muscle has been damaged, preventing the heart from functioning properly. The result is tiredness and breathlessness. In severe cases the patient is unable to walk more than a few steps without collapsing.
Heart transplant is the treatment offered to young sufferers. Older and elderly patients are prescribed diuretics to keep down levels of water retained in the body.
The full costs of a heart transplant are pounds 24,000. About 570,000 people suffer from heart failure in the United Kingdom at cost of pounds 360m annually to the NHS. This is more than 10 per cent of what the NHS spends on the whole range of heart diseases.
Heart failure patients stay a long time in hospital when admitted, on average 11-12 days. This accounts for 60 per cent of the costs of treating heart failure, while the present drugs bill only accounts for 7.5 per cent of the total.
Dr Murray and his colleagues have worked out that increased use of Ace inhibitors - there are eight varieties on the market - would reduce hospitalisations by 29,278 a year and save pounds 51.2m.
Dr Poole-Wilson said that prescribing of Ace inhibitors may be low because early trials using very high doses on very sick people caused side effects, including low blood pressure. Some doctors were wary as a result but they now know that low doses are effective. A course of treatments costs about pounds 160 a year for the rest of life.
The drugs would not be suitable for some patients with low blood pressure and people with certain forms of kidney problems. More about:
Benefits of Bowen Therapy | Minds
cheekcarolynNov 21, 2019, 3:26:30 PM
There are various therapy services that are provided for us and they are all meant to ensure that they have improved our bodies and mind. Choosing the right type of therapy, however, is always very important. This is dependent on the kind of organs that you would want to be targeted by the one that has been chosen. Bowen therapy, for instance, is the type of therapy that involves touching, initiating a series of responses through the entire nervous system. It is also the kind of therapy that targets the muscles and the facial systems. Some of the benefits associated with Bowen therapy have been highlighted below.
The entire body is addressed through Bowen therapy. It is the kind of therapy that focuses on improving the circulation and the lymphatic systems. In return, assimilation of various nutrients into the body is made possible. It is also a process that results to the elimination of various toxins from the body, making the body completely free of substances that may affect how it is working. The autonomic nervous system is also stimulated through Bowen Therapy Dallas TX. This is important as the healing process is initiated, resulting to an improved structural and energetic levels.
Bowen therapy is also considered to be quite gentle on the body. It is an effective method that ensures that a relaxation effect has been achieved, and it is something that should be provided to anyone who wants to receive it. It has actually been established that people of all ages are able to respond to this therapy depending on the requirements and needs of their own bodies. It is a service that is provided to infants and old people, and those that are suffering from chronic diseases. It is the kind of therapy that reduces inflammation as well as neck and back pains.
In Bowen therapy, the practitioner applies little pressure on the muscles and the nerve bundles. The body responds by resetting the various systems of the body. In the process, the physical and the emotional conditions are affected positively. The body energy levels are also increased in the process. There are various nerve cells whose function is to provide our bodies with balanced gravity that are affected through Bowen Therapy Dallas TX. Various patterns are kept in check so that further pain and psychological stress is reduced from our bodies. They are prevented from flowing throughout the entire body.
Bowen therapy is therefore applied on targeted areas, especially those that stimulate the proprioceptors. These in touch send messages to the brain on how we hold ourselves in space. Messages are then sent from the brain to the rest of the body instructing it to unwind. The muscles are also improved to ensure that various body processes are able to respond well. Some of the processes that are improved through improvement of the musculoskeletal conditions include respiration and reproduction. It is therefore very important for you to ensure that you have booked an appointment with a Bowen therapist so that you can get to enjoy the above benefits.
"Morphological Effects of Lonidamine on Two Human-Tumor Cell Culture Li" by Joseph G. Szekely, Anya U. Lobreau et al.
Morphological Effects of Lonidamine on Two Human-Tumor Cell Culture Lines
Joseph G. Szekely, Atomic Energy of Canada Limited Research Company
Anya U. Lobreau, Atomic Energy of Canada Limited Research Company
Sabine Delaney, Atomic Energy of Canada Limited Research Company
G. Peter Raaphorst, Ontario Cancer Foundation
Mark Feeley, Ontario Cancer Foundation
Lonidamine, 1-(2-4-dichlorobenzyl)-1-H-indazol-3-carboxylic acid. is an anticancer drug that has its primary action on cellular metabolism rather than cell division. Since lonidamine is not effective in all tumor cells, we have tested it in two human-tumor cell culture lines: MOLT-4, a T-leukemia and U-87 MG. a glioma. Lonidamine exposure of MOLT-4 cells at 50 μg/mL and pH 6.7 disrupted the mitochondria within 1 h of treatment. The mitochondria were swollen and the cristae were disrupted. When the treated cells were re-incubated in fresh medium at pH 7.4 the mitochondria rapidly returned to their normal morphology. The U-87 MG glioma cells did not show ultrastructural disruption after 1-h treatment with lonidamine at concentrations up to 200 μg/mL at pH 6.7
In the concentration range of 25 μg/mL to 200 μg/mL. lonidamine did not produce any cell killing in MOLT-4 after a 1-h exposure at pH 7.4, although the drug had some limited effectiveness at pH 6.7. Compared to sham-treated controls, long exposures to 100 μg/mL of lonidamine at pH 6.7 reduced survival in MOLT-4 to 92% and 53% after 6-h and 24-h exposures, respectively. Survival of U-87 MG glioma cells was also strongly pH dependent, a 2-h exposure to 50 μg/mL lonidamine at pH 7.4 did not cause cell death; however, survival dropped to 84% of the control at pH 6.65.
Szekely, Joseph G.; Lobreau, Anya U.; Delaney, Sabine; Raaphorst, G. Peter; and Feeley, Mark (1989) "Morphological Effects of Lonidamine on Two Human-Tumor Cell Culture Lines," Scanning Microscopy: Vol. 3 : No. 2 , Article 30.
Join Vegan Food & Living and chose between our Print Plus and Digital Plus packages to receive the magazine every month as well as an amazing bundle of benefits
SUBSCRIBE TODAY
SUBSCRIBE TO RECEIVE EMAILS FROM US
Including our best content delivered to your inbox every week, plus our latest special offers!
JOIN OUR NEWSLETTER
SUBSCRIBE
Join our newsletter
How to Go Vegan
Features
Diet
Fitness
Nutrition
Meal Plans
Vegan Recipes
Vegan Cakes and Bakes Recipes
Vegan Pizza & Bread Recipes
Vegan Breakfast Recipes
Vegan Lunch Recipes
Vegan Dinner Recipes
Vegan Desserts Recipes
Vegan Drinks Recipes
Vegan Christmas Recipes
Vegan Easter Recipes
Vegan Valentine’s Recipes
Vegan Halloween Recipes
Vegan News
Products
Accidentally Vegan
Vegan Cheese
Vegan Chocolate
Vegan Supermarket Desserts
Competitions
Lifestyle
Vegan City Guides
Vegan Wedding Directory
Interviews
Cruelty-free beauty
Vegan Fashion
The Big Vegan Survey 2019 results
Animals & Environment
Animal Impact
Environment
Vegan Basics
Basic Guides
Vegan Essentials
Vegan Food & Living Magazine
The Big Vegan Survey 2023!
Simply Vegan Podcast
Vegan Business
Vegan business advice
Company Interviews
Product releases
Vegan Trademark
About Vegan Food & Living
Contact
More
Advertise With Us
Privacy Policy
Anthem Publishing
HOME > Health | Vegan Diet | Vegan Nutrition |
Beef up the warnings: Examining the link between processed meat consumption and cancer
Author: Dr. Justine Butler
Read Time: | 23rd February 2018
ADVERTISEMENT
Dr Justine Butler from Viva! examines the growing evidence of the cancer health crisis being caused by processed meat.
In 2015, the World Health Organisation (WHO) announced that processed meat does cause cancer and red meat probably does. It made headlines around the world, but as they say, today’s news is tomorrow’s battered sausage wrapping paper!
Risk factors
Meat has been recognised as a risk factor for cancer since the early 1900s. Countries with high intakes of meat have higher rates of bowel, breast and prostate cancer, three of the most common types. Other studies show that people who eat the most meat have a higher risk of bowel, liver, lung and oesophageal cancer.
It’s hard to say exactly what it is in meat that’s responsible, as there are so many candidates to choose from – saturated fat, animal protein, haem iron, salt and cancer-causing compounds called NOCs, HCAs and PAHs… it’s an extensive list. Diets high in saturated fat lead to obesity, which increases the risk of breast, prostate and bowel cancer. Animal protein results in higher levels of the growth hormone IGF-1, which increases the risk of bowel and lung cancer. Interestingly, IGF-1 levels are lower among vegans. Constant cautions are raised about iron deficiency yet iron overload can increase cancer risk by generating cancer-causing free radicals.
NOCs (in preserved meat and made in the gut from meat), bind to our DNA and can cause mutations that lead to cancer. Cancer-causing HCAs and PAHs are produced by cooking meat at high temperatures, on a barbecue for example. All meats contain at least some of these, so avoiding meat completely should be an effective way of reducing your risk of cancer.
Researchers from the University of Oxford, found that, compared to meat-eaters, cancer incidence is lower in fish-eaters and vegetarians but lower still in vegans; UK vegans have a 19 per cent lower risk than meat-eaters. Similar results were found in the US where vegans have a 16 per cent lower risk and vegan women have 34 per cent fewer cancers specific to females.
Bowel cancer
The link between meat and bowel cancer is well-established and again, a number of meaty substances may be to blame: animal fat, animal protein, NOCs, HCAs and PAHs and haem iron – take your pick! Research suggests that people who eat 400g or more of meat a day can be exposed to as many NOCs as a smoker! So, meat-eaters may need the same level of health advice as smokers, as better dietary advice could save lives. Bowel cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among non-smokers in affluent countries and its prevention should be a major goal for public health.
Breast cancer
Links between diet and breast cancer have been suspected for a long time. There is wide geographical variation and migration studies show that genes are responsible for only 5-10 per cent of breast cancers, the majority being caused by diet and lifestyle factors. The US Nurses’ Health Study found that daily servings of meat increased the risk substantially – especially in women using oral contraceptives.
Girls exposed to radiation from the atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki were more likely to get breast cancer later in life than those not exposed, but women over 40 who were exposed had no such increased risk. This inspired researchers to investigate the adolescent diets of women. They found that those who ate a lot of meat when young had a higher risk of pre-menopausal breast cancer.
Different substances in meat may be to blame, while fruit, vegetables and fibre lower the risk. As breast cancer affects one in eight women in the UK, meat consumption should be a public health concern. Dietary advice given at mammography screenings would be a good way of helping women to lower their risk.
Prostate cancer
High consumption of red, processed and well-done meat is linked to prostate cancer and it’s suggested that an HCA called PhiP is responsible. Fried, roast and grilled chicken can contain particularly high amounts – not so finger-licking good after all!
Lung cancer
Many people think only smokers are affected yet high intakes of meat and haem iron are linked to lung cancer, one of the most common and serious types. In 2007, the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) said that red and processed meats might be a cause. The huge NIH-AARP Diet and Health Study from the US was in no doubt – they said meat is linked to lung cancer and cancers of the bowel, liver and oesophagus.
They maintained that one in 10 lung and bowel cancers could be avoided if people reduced meat intake. Avoiding it altogether would be even better. Suspect culprits include heavy metals, synthetic hormones, NOCs, HCAs and PAHs, haem iron and animal protein, which increases IGF-1 levels. High intakes of vegetables, fruit and soya reduce the risk of lung cancer.
Kidney cancer
Studies show that HCAs and PAHs in cooked meat are also linked to kidney cancer. One theory is that they activate enzymes (proteins that accelerate chemical reactions in the body) making them behave differently, causing DNA mutations that can lead to cancer.
Pancreatic cancer
Meat is also linked to pancreatic cancer, the fourth most common cause of cancer death worldwide. Animal fat, HCAs, PAHs and haem iron are thought to be involved. Vegans have a much lower risk of this disease than meat-eaters. The huge European-wide EPIC study found strong links with chicken and suggested that antibiotics and/or drugs called coccidiostats, given to poultry and cattle to prevent parasites, may be responsible. They also said that viruses in undercooked meat may be involved. So you are damned if you cook it and damned if you don’t!
Stomach cancer
The WHO reports links between processed meat and stomach cancer, the fifth most common cancer worldwide, and the WCRF agree. They also say grilled and barbecued meat, and eating little or no fruit, increases the risk. High levels of salt, nitrite, nitrate and NOCs in processed meats are blamed along with cancer-causing PAHs in smoked meat.
Benefits of going vegan
The meat industry has been able to influence official dietary guidelines for too long. If the government aren’t brave enough to revise their advice, then hopefully people will make the change for themselves. The fact that one-in-five Conservative MPs are involved in animal farming in some way probably doesn’t help.
Going into old age disease-free, fit and healthy is something we all hope for. If one simple lifestyle change could help achieve it, surely everyone should be encouraged to make the change – today?
ADVERTISEMENT
Written by
Dr. Justine Butler
Viva! Health is a part of the charity Viva!, Europe’s largest vegan campaign group. It monitors scientific research linking diet to health and provide accurate information on which you can make informed choices about the food you eat.
www.vivahealth.org.uk/
See more from Dr. Justine Butler
Vegan Nutrition
VIEW ALL
VIEW MORE Vegan Nutrition
SUBSCRIBE TO RECEIVE EMAILS FROM US
Including our best content delivered to your inbox every week, plus our latest special offers!
JOIN OUR NEWSLETTER
Magazine
About
Contact
Advertise
Anthem Publishing
T&Cs
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
© Copyright Anthem Publishing 2015 - 2022.
Designed and built by Bopgun
We use cookies to give you a better experience on veganfoodandliving.com. By continuing to use our site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies as set in our Cookie Policy.
Finacea Gel Online | Simple Online Pharmacy
Used to treat rosacea and acne
Order Finacea Gel Online UK
You can request to order Finacea Gel online from our UK registered online doctor and pharmacy service. Simply complete an online assessment form for our UK doctors to review. If your order is approved, a prescription is sent to our online pharmacy team. From here, your medicine will be dispensed and dispatched to your chosen delivery address.
Finacea is a prescription-only topical gel used to treat the skin conditions rosacea and acne. It contains the active ingredient azelaic acid 15%. Although it's sometimes referred to as Finacea cream, this medicine is a gel.
Finacea can be used to relieve mild to moderate papulopustular acne and can also treat papulopustular rosacea. Both conditions are associated with inflamed pustules and papules. Papules are small, red bumps that can feel tender. Pustules are similar, but they have a white tip in the centre caused by a build-up of pus.
In acne, the active ingredient attacks a bacteria on the skin called P.acnes. This bacteria plays an important role in acne and inflammation. Azelaic acid can also reduce the growth of the harder outermost skin cells that block the pores of the skin to cause whiteheads and blackheads.
The exact cause of rosacea is not well understood but it's thought that inflammation plays a key role in the disease. Azelaic acid has anti-inflammatory properties, and it's thought that these properties may be important in the treatment of rosacea.
How long it takes to work can vary from person to person and also depends on how severe your skin problem is. For people with acne, you should notice an improvement after around 4 weeks of regular use. Finacea can be used for several months to treat acne. If you haven't noticed an improvement after a month of regular use, contact your doctor for advice.
For rosacea, Finacea can be used for several months if it's having a beneficial effect. Some people may notice an improvement after 4 weeks, although it can take longer for others. If your symptoms do not improve after 2 months of regular use, contact your doctor for advice.
Finacea alternatives
Many treatments can be prescribed for acne. If you find Finacea isn't effective for you, there are several other topical treatments that your doctor may prescribe. This includes Differin Gel (adapalene), Duac Gel (clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide), Epiduo Gel (adapalene and benzoyl peroxide), and Zineryt Solution (contains erythromycin and zinc).
Other rosacea treatments include Mirvaso Gel, Efracea capsules, Rozex Gel, and Soolantra Cream. The effectiveness of each treatment can vary from person to person.
Finacea Summary
Can include itching, burning and dry skin
Finacea is used to treat both acne and rosacea. Both conditions are associated with inflamed pustules and papules. Papules are small, red bumps that can feel tender. Pustules are similar, but they have a white tip in the centre caused by a build-up of pus.
How quickly does Finacea work?
For people with acne, you should notice an improvement after around 4 weeks of regular use. Finacea can be used for several months to treat acne.
Some people with rosacea may notice an improvement after 4 weeks of use. However, it can take longer for others. If you haven't noticed an improvement after 8 weeks of regular use, contact your doctor for advice.
Does Finacea expire?
Finacea Gel will expire after some time. The expiry date is stated on the carton and tube after "EXP". Don't use this medicine after the expiry date. The date refers to the last day of the month.
Azelaic acid has anti-inflammatory properties, and it's thought that these properties may be important in the treatment of rosacea.
In acne, azelaic acid attacks a bacteria responsible for causing acne and inflammation. It also penetrates the skin and breaks up acne-causing blockages.
Can I buy Finacea over the counter?
Finacea gel, in the UK, is a prescription-only medicine that cannot be bought over the counter at your local pharmacy. To get Finacea in the UK you need a prescription from a doctor or other healthcare professional.
You can request to buy Finacea Gel online from our UK registered online pharmacy. Our UK doctors will assess you via an online consultation and prescribe the medicine if safe and suitable to do so.
The most common side effects of Finacea 15% Gel include burning, itching, pain and dry skin at the application site. In most cases, any skin irritation will be mild or moderate and should improve throughout treatment.
Up to 1 in 1000 people may experience an allergic reaction after applying this gel. If you notice any symptoms such as swelling of the face, difficulty breathing, and rapid swelling under the skin, you should seek immediate medical attention.
Before applying the gel, you should clean your skin thoroughly and then dry it. A mild skin-cleanser can be used for this. Apply Finacea (azelaic acid) to the affected area of skin twice daily (in the morning and the evening) and rub it into the skin gently. You should wash your hands before and after applying the gel.
If you find the gel causes skin irritation, you can reduce the amount of gel you apply each time or only apply the gel once a day.
You should not use Finacea Gel if you are allergic to azelaic acid or any other ingredient listed in the gel. This is a topical treatment and is for external use only. Take care to avoid contact with the eyes, mouth and other mucous membranes.
Generally, you should avoid using alcoholic cleansers, tinctures and astringents, abrasives and peeling agents when using Finacea for the treatment of rosacea. You should also not apply other medicines or treatments to your face at the same time as Finacea.
Finacea ingredients
The active substance is azelaic acid (Each gram of Finacea contains 150 mg of azelaic acid). The other ingredients are: Benzoic acid (E210), carbomers, disodium edetate, lecithin, polysorbate 80, propylene glycol, purified water, sodium hydroxide and triglycerides medium-chain.
