Christopher Rohde, Ph.D. to Join Scientific Advisory Board of Brooklyn ImmunoTherapeutics, Inc. | Benzinga
Christopher Rohde, Ph.D. to Join Scientific Advisory Board of Brooklyn ImmunoTherapeutics, Inc.
May 13, 2021 7:30am Comments
Brooklyn ImmunoTherapeutics, Inc. (NYSE:BTX) ("Brooklyn"), a biopharmaceutical company exploring the role that cytokine and gene editing/cell therapy can have in treating patients with cancer and blood disorders, today announced the appointment of Christopher Rohde, Ph.D. to the Company's Scientific Advisory Board, effective May 13, 2021.
Dr. Rohde is Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer at Factor Bioscience. Dr. Rohde is also Co-Founder and President of Novellus Therapeutics. Brooklyn ImmunoTherapeutics acquired an exclusive license for the mRNA gene editing and cell therapies technology of Factor Bioscience Limited and Novellus Therapeutics Limited. Dr. Rohde is currently leading Factor's efforts to apply their RiboSlice™ gene-editing technology, and FactorStem™ cell-reprogramming and differentiation technologies to the development of new research models, including high-throughput screening-compatible human cell libraries. His work is described in numerous peer-reviewed publications, and has been covered by Technology Review, Nature, Bioscience Magazine, Analytical Chemistry, The Economist, and many other publications. Chris Rohde earned his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 2011.
"As Co-founder and Chief Technology Officer at Factor Bioscience, Dr. Rohde brings a unique and unparalleled understanding of the gene editing and cell therapy technology which Brooklyn has in-licensed to our Scientific Advisory Board," said Howard J. Federoff, M.D., Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer and President of Brooklyn. "His in-depth knowledge and perspective will allow us to target disease at the molecular level. This is a very exciting time at Brooklyn and we are looking forward to working with Chris to rapidly advance our potential treatments for oncology, blood disorders and monogenic diseases."
"Brooklyn ImmunoTherapeutics is well-positioned to become a leader in gene editing and cell reprograming using Factor's RiboSlice™ gene-editing technology, and FactorStem™ cell-reprogramming and differentiation technologies," said Dr. Rohde. "I look forward to working with colleagues on the Scientific Advisory Board to optimize this leading edge technology to develop new therapies for patients living with cancer and blood disorders."
Brooklyn's most advanced program is studying the safety and efficacy of IRX-2 in patients with head and neck cancer. In a Phase 2A clinical trial in head and neck cancer, IRX-2 demonstrated an overall survival benefit. Additional studies are either underway or planned in other solid tumor cancer indications.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, concerning Brooklyn's expectations, anticipations, intentions, beliefs or strategies regarding the future that are not statements of historical fact, including statements in the fourth and fifth paragraphs related to potential future development and growth. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Brooklyn's management and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties, and other factors. Brooklyn's actual results could differ materially from any anticipated future results, performance, or achievements described in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) Brooklyn's ability to successfully, cost-effectively and efficiently develop its technology and products; (ii) Brooklyn's ability to successfully commence clinical trials of any products on a timely basis or at all; (iii) Brooklyn's ability to successfully fund and manage the growth of its development activities; (iv) Brooklyn's ability to obtain regulatory approvals of its products for commercialization; and (v) uncertainties related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the business and financial condition of Brooklyn, including on the timing and cost of the BR-202 clinical trial. Additional factors and risks are described in Brooklyn's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Forward-looking statements are made based on information available to Brooklyn on the date of this press release, and Brooklyn assumes no obligation to update the information contained in this press release.
Buy Generic Ultram (Tramadol) Online Without Rx - GenemedRx.com
Category: Pain Relief Pills
People who want to buy the pain medication Generic Ultram without a prescription can do so by opting for a highly reputed online pharmacy. Since a prescription is important to get Tramadol, you can use the services of the licensed online doctor consultation to get a valid prescription and then use it to order Tramadol. This is very convenient and saves you the trouble of visiting the health clinic and paying the heavy prices that are associated with healthcare. You can also buy generic Ultram for a cheaper rate when using an online pharmacy. The bundle of services offered makes it quite easy to obtain the prescription, order Ultram and receive the pills directly to one's home. There are hundreds of people who get their Tramadol prescription filled online this way as it has so many benefits. Get pain relief without the hassle of visiting brick-and-mortar drug stores by placing the order for Generic Ultram online.
Tramadol is a prescription pain medication that is sold under the brand name Ultram among others. It is an opioid that is used to help alleviate moderate to severe pain. The drug's time for onset of action is usually within an hour and it has a biological half-life of about six hours. The narcotic-like medication Generic Ultram works by blocking the pain signals communicated between the neurotransmitters and the brain. The secondary action of Ultram generic is such that it produces analgesic effects on the area of pain.
What are the available dosages of Generic Ultram?
The immediate release version of generic Ultram comes in dosage strengths of 50 mg and 100 mg. The extended release of ER version of Tramadol can be bought online as capsules in the dosage strengths of 100 mg, 150 mg, 200 mg, and 300 mg. The doctor may prescribe the minimum dose first and then titrate the dose higher till the most effective dose for the patient for that particular health condition is arrived at.
Ultram is best taken according to the dosage instructions provided by the prescribing physician. Do not increase the dose or double it if the pain is still persistent. Always consult the doctor regarding changing the dosage. Ultram medication may be taken either with or without food but it is advisable that it be taken the same way each time to maintain the efficacy. Do not open, crush, break or chew the extended-release capsules. Abruptly stopping the drug course is not recommended without a proper dose taper as otherwise severe withdrawal symptoms can occur.
Common side effects of taking Ultram include:
Stomach problems like constipation or diarrhea
Severe side effects of taking Tramadol include:
Generic Ultram precautions of use
Do not drink alcohol while on Tramadol. The side effects that can occur when combining the two substances can be very dangerous to one's health.
Pregnant and breastfeeding women are advised not to take Generic Ultram without consulting with the healthcare provider.
Persons should not take Ultram they have severe asthma or breathing problems, blockages in the stomach, or have recently used any kind of sedatives, including alcohol.
If you are prone to seizures or at risk, it is important to inform the doctor of the same before taking the medication.
Disclose all health problems and any other medications being taken before buying Generic Ultram.
Which is the best place to buy Generic Ultram online Without Rx?
The best place to buy generic Ultram online without Rx is the one that provides you with the authentic pills for cheap. There are quite a number of places that offer the pain medication as expected, but you also have to watch out for the online drugstore that is not genuine and work in a spurious manner.
Buy Generic Ultram only after doing some research to check that the online pharmacy is the best place to get the pills from. This you can do by seeing if the place is licensed, provides the proper drug information, has an online doctor available for consultation, prices the drug fairly, and sources the pills only from the drug companies making them. You should also ensure that the trusted internet pharmacy has secure payment gateways and ships the medication safely. If you find such a place, then it is the best one to buy Tramadol from.
Preventing Foodborne Illness Outbreaks Caused by Staphylococcus aureus | Food Safety
Home » Preventing Foodborne Illness Outbreaks Caused by Staphylococcus aureus
Contamination ControlSanitation
KEYWORDS cooking / killstep / Staphylococcus aureaus
In April 2021, an outbreak of foodborne illness sickened 84 people working at a garment company in Vietnam. Of those sickened, 29 were hospitalized with symptoms of abdominal pain, dizziness, and nausea. The other 55 workers, exhibiting milder symptoms of abdominal pain, were administered oral medication and a follow-up at the garment company's medical facility. Local authorities, together with the Department of Health and the Sub-Department of Food Safety and Hygiene, worked with the garment company's support staff to investigate the cause of the foodborne illness outbreak.
The investigation found that the garment company had contracted a catering service to provide workers with daily meals. The company's own cafeteria also continued to offer snacks. On the day the workers became ill, they had eaten lunch between 11 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. and had a snack at 6 p.m. The catered lunch consisted of white rice, basa braised with bananas, tofu with tomato sauce, fried pickles, pumpkin soup, boiled chayote squash, and bean dessert. Food samples from the lunch tested positive for
Staphylococcus aureus bacteria; however, mixing and cross-contamination of the lunch foods prevented the identification of a single food source of theS. aureus contamination. Due to timely medical treatment, all of the workers recovered within a few days.
Mechanism of an S. aureus Illness Outbreak
Foodborne illness outbreaks caused by S. aureus bacteria commonly occur due to unhygienic food handling practices. S. aureus bacteria have been found on the hands, noses, throats, and in the open wounds of food workers who directly handle unpackaged or packaged foods.
S. aureus is a spherical bacterium, clustered like a bunch of grapes (Figure 1). It is widely scattered in nature and usually parasitizes the skin and mucous membranes. It is often found on foods with high hand contact, such as pastries, sandwiches, salads, and sliced meats, as well as in foods rich in protein and fat, and foods high in water content or starch.
Figure 1. Staphylococcus aureus Bacteria as Seen under a Microscope
S. aureus is heat-resistant and cannot be destroyed by normal cooking methods. The bacterium multiplies rapidly at room temperature, directly producing toxins that cause symptoms of abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea within 30 minutes to a few hours after ingestion. The toxin has a very high temperature tolerance; it can survive for one to two hours at 100 °C (212 °F). S. aureus can maintain its toxicity for more than two months at normal temperatures and does not change the smell or taste of food.
After contaminating food, S. aureus produces exotoxins within four to five hours. These toxins are not destroyed by digestive enzymes. When people consume food contaminated with S. aureus, the toxins quickly penetrate the lining of the stomach and intestines and enter the bloodstream. Symptoms of illness occur quickly, within six hours after eating contaminated food. The severity of the illness depends on the amount of food consumed, the amount of toxins present in the food, the individual's sensitivity to the toxins, and the present health of the individual. The symptoms usually last for a short time—up to eight hours—but it may take a couple of days to fully recover from illness caused by S. aureus toxins.
Preventing S. aureus Foodborne Illness
It is always necessary to ensure food hygiene and safety by properly cooking food, using only clean water in cooking operations, and sourcing food ingredients from clear and reputable suppliers. Attention should always be paid to proper food storage and handling. However, food contamination by S. aureus can be difficult to prevent because a cooking killstep is not applicable. The key lies in educating food handlers on proper procedures for avoiding contamination of food—especially those involving personal hygiene.
To prevent foodborne illness outbreaks associated with S. aureus, the following list of practices should be observed by all food handlers, especially in retail foodservice and catering operations:
People with sinusitis, nasopharyngitis, open sores or wounds, or acne on their hands should not be permitted to have direct contact with raw or cooked food, food ingredients, or food utensils
All food handlers must thoroughly wash their hands with soap and warm water before handling food and food utensils, especially after using the restroom, eating, smoking, or contacting other easily contaminated sources
No bare hand contact is permitted on ready-to-eat foods
All utensils and surfaces used in food processing must be dry, sanitized, clean, and free of clutter
Food utensils should not be shared between raw and cooked foods
No cross-contamination should be allowed to occur between food, especially after cooking
Proper cooling and hot/cold holding practices must be observed
The amount of time that food spends in the temperature danger zone (5 °C– 57 °C or 41 °F–135 °F) must be minimized.
Such control measures will go a long way toward helping prevent foodborne illness outbreaks associated with S. aureus bacteria in retail foodservice and catering operations.
Chemical in Plastics Is Tied to Prostate Cancer - latimes
June 01, 2006|Marla Cone | Times Staff Writer
The new study of laboratory rats suggests that prostate cancer, which usually strikes men over 50, may develop when BPA and other estrogen-like, man-made chemicals pass through a pregnant woman's womb and alter the genes of a growing prostate in the fetus. One in every six men develops prostate cancer, a rate that has increased over the last 30 years.
Prostate cancer: An article in Thursday's Section A about a study that linked prostate cancer to a widespread industrial compound said that rats "were injected with doses 100 to 1,000 times higher than the most recent human testing done by federal officials in 2004." It should have said the testing was reported by federal officials in 2004.
"The present findings provide the first evidence of a direct link between developmental low-dose bisphenol A ... and carcinogenesis of the prostate gland," according to the researchers. Results from the team, led by Gail S. Prins, associate professor of andrology at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and Shuk-mei Ho, chair of environmental health at the University of Cincinnati, are reported today in the journal Cancer Research.
"You can't say from the results of this study that this is going to affect humans," Sokol said. But she said the results were in line with previous animal research that showed chemicals could induce genetic changes that altered sperm and other reproductive functions.
The study's authors said the animals developed the precancerous lesions and genetic changes when exposed to low concentrations of the chemical similar to the amounts found in human blood and fetuses.
Date: 2018-07-18 14:00
Synvisc is a hylan-based orthopedic implant that is manufactured by Sanofi Genzyme to manage the symptoms associated with osteoarthritis such pain, stiffness, and discomfort. This viscosupplement is meant to be injected intraarticularly into the affected knee joints. Though it is renowned for its desirable effects like joint lubrication and pain reduction, Synvisc can still cause some undesirable, although mild, side effects. Some of the commonly reported undesirable aftereffects of Synvisc procedure are:
Irritation of treated joint;
Pain in treated joint;
Swelling of treated joint;
Heat sensation in treated joint;
Fluid buildup in treated joint.
These inflammatory reactions are usually very mild in nature and should resolve within a few days. As part of the aftercare methods, patients are recommended to apply cold compresses that can help to minimize swelling and pain. They should also avoid participating in physically exerting and high-impact exercise like jogging, tennis, and basketball for at least 48 hours after the procedure. Not only that, prolonged weight-bearing activities must also be avoided for the same duration of time. Physicians can also prescribe oral pain-relieving medications or administer steroid injections for patients who are affected by pain and discomfort. Besides the common side effects stated above, patients may also experience serious reactions like:
Headache and/or dizziness;
A pounding or fast heartbeat;
Difficulty swallowing/breathing/talking;
Hives or rashes on skin.
The symptoms above indicate a systemic allergic reaction. Though rare, it can develop in patients who are hypersensitive to animal—specifically avian-based—proteins. Hence, patients' medical history must be thoroughly examined before they are given the all-clear to receive Synvisc injections.
What should patients do when they display these side effects?
Patients should obtain quick medical attention to reduce the risks of life-threatening health complications. It is very important that physicians educate their patients on the possible side effects that they might experience, and patients have given their consent prior to Synvisc injection session.
August Was National Immunization Month | Rhine Law Firm, P.C.
You are here: Home1 / Blog2 / Personal Injury3 / August Was National Immunization Month
One-Third of Nursing Home Patients Are Injured by Medical Errors The Dangers of Exploring a Shipwreck
August has been named National Immunization Awareness Month (NIAM) in an annual effort to promote getting vaccinated. NIAM reminds us that people of all ages should remain up-to-date on their vaccines to help prevent problematic diseases. NIAM is sponsored by the National Public Health Information Coalition (NPHIC) and the Center of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Vaccinations have largely limited or eradicated diseases that traditionally infected and killed many. A vaccine is designed to immunize people and prevent the spread of illnesses. Even if diseases are not "present," the bacteria and viruses that cause them still exist.
This is becoming very clear with the reemergence of diseases that were thought to be gone.
More than two dozen diseases that are "vaccine-preventable" have been surging in recent years—even in the United States, which has almost universal access to vaccines. The reason? Nonimmunization.
Far too many Americans are admitted to hospitals each year for conditions that could have been prevented; many victims are children. In fact, in North Carolina in 2017, there was an outbreak of whooping cough (pertussis)—17 cases of this disease that was, before now, seen mostly in prairie days!
They lower the likelihood of spreading certain diseases.
The Food and Drug Administration handles testing, monitoring, and licensing for vaccines.
Antibodies within our immune system are fueled by vaccines.
Currently, the U.S. vaccine supply is the safest in history.
Vaccines usually have very mild side effects, such as swelling or irritation at the injection site, which vanish quickly. Severe side effects, like having an allergic reaction, are very rare. During the process of licensure, the side effects of a vaccine are considered by the FDA before the vaccination is released to the public.
In closing, vaccines are largely safe, but not all other drugs are. If you've suffered an adverse reaction to a medication, call Rhine Law Firm, P.C. We are experienced in a wide variety of cases of personal injury, wrongful death, medical malpractice, product liability, and more. For a free initial consultation, contact our office today at (910) 772-9960.
Sixteen faculty members named winners of 2020 Dean's Excellence Awards
Sixteen outstanding faculty members have been named recipients of the 2020 Dean's Excellence Awards in the areas of teaching, research, service, mentorship, and diversity.
Lund named 2020 Dean's Excellence Award winner in Research
Frances Lund, Ph.D., Charles H. McCauley Professor and Chair for the Department of Microbiology, is the senior faculty winner of the 2020 Dean's Excellence Award in Research.
UAB biorepository launches in the School of Medicine
The UAB Tissue Biorepository (UAB-TBR) in the School of Medicine has launched, and is housed in the Department of Pathology.
Resident macrophages reprogram toward a developmental state after acute kidney injury
The School of Medicine communications staff sat down with Dr. George to gain insights about his research, UAB, and the science community.
Impaired tumor-necrosis-factor-alpha-driven dendritic cell activation limits lipopolysaccharide-induced protection from allergic inflammation in infants
The School of Medicine communications staff sat down with Dr. León to gain insights about her research, UAB, and the science community.
Faculty honored at 2019 Argus Awards ceremony
Korf named associate dean for Genomic Medicine
Bruce R. Korf, M.D., Ph.D., was recently named associate dean for Genomic Medicine in the School of Medicine. Korf currently serves as UAB Medicine's chief genomics officer and holds the Wayne and Sara Crews Finley Endowed Chair in Medical Genetics. He will continue to hold both of those positions along with his new appointment.
Activated PMN exosomes: pathogenic entities causing matrix destruction and disease in the lung
The School of Medicine communications staff sat down with Dr. Blalock to gain insights about his research, UAB, and the science community.
Six faculty awarded 2019 incentive grants to submit a second R01
Six School of Medicine faculty projects were recently funded through an AMC21 initiative giving NIH-funded investigators incentive to submit a second R01.
UAB launches Healthcare Educators Academy
The University of Alabama at Birmingham recently launched the pilot class of the UAB Healthcare Educators Academy (HEA). The mission of the HEA is to advance the development of faculty in the health professions throughout UAB by strengthening educators through mentorship, fostering a culture of excellence in teaching, developing innovative teaching resources across disciplines, and advancing a collaborative teaching environment.
Innovation Archives - IBX Insights Innovation Archives - IBX Insights
WellnessCommunityInnovationHealth Insurance	3 Philadelphia Digital Health Start-Ups Revolutionizing Health Care
As we gear up for Demo Day for the Dreamit Health Philadelphia class of 2017,…	Read More
Innovation	5 Tips to Help You Foster Innovation Every Day
Help foster innovation by asking people to agree to guidelines, like being positive and open minded.
Defining innovation can be challenging. For us, innovation means thinking differently, exhibiting creative behaviors, and continually doing things in new ways to create positive change.
We want our employees to feel empowered to foster innovation. But, how can we be innovative in our everyday work?…	Read More
Featured, Innovation	Put Our Human-Centered Approach to Problem Solving to Work For You
Don't fear — the Independence Blue Cross innovation team is here!…	Read More
Innovation	Tagged under:
2017, Innovation	Philly Arts and Business: Better Together
2017, Innovation, Sales	Live Fearless Campaign Wins Clio Health Award
The Live Fearless ad campaign is charging forward with its message of optimism and empowerment, this time winning a Clio Health award for its Fearless Nation video series! Live Fearless is the most successful campaign in Blue Cross Blue Shield Association* history, and another example of the power of collaboration between the Blues….	Read More
Community, Innovation	Independence and Jefferson Health are Innovating for Change in Health Care
Philadelphia is widely recognized as a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship. Independence Blue Cross (Independence) and Jefferson Health — two organizations with long-standing traditions of leading change in our region — have forged a strategic relationship to reinvent health care access and delivery by helping to create solutions to some of the industry's biggest challenges….	Read More
Innovation	How Independence Makes Innovative Ideas Happen
IBX innovation director Michelle Histand walks workshop challenge participants through the process of putting people first when they're problem-solving.
Cross your arms. Now try crossing them the opposite way. Feels strange, doesn't it? Try it a few more times, and it won't feel as strange.
To be innovative, you have to practice getting comfortable doing uncomfortable things….	Read More
Innovation	Innovative Leadership and the Path to Better Health Care
by Jeff Powell, Director of Sales
Got your eye on the next big thing? As consumers, we're continually surrounded by the new, the advanced, the technologically superior. I'll admit it; I'm a bit of a gadget guy and I've fallen for some fancy – but oh so fun – toys. My 3D curved TV? I can honestly say I love that machine….	Read More
Sales	The Telemedicine Trend: Bringing Health Care Home
by Bob Toner
It's 11 p.m., and you are woken by the sound of crying. A peek into your son's bedroom confirms your fears: he's sitting up in bed, holding his ear, and in tears. You've been here before — this isn't the first ear infection he's faced. You know the quickest path to a painless night and quality sleep is a prescription,…	Read More
Innovation, Wellness	Tagged under:
how do i use telehealth, how do i use telemedicine, Sales, telehealth, what is telehealth, What is telemedicine	Human-Centered Design Toolkit Supports Business Innovation
We are really excited to share our new innovation toolkit! It is another way Independence Blue Cross is helping organizations address their unique business challenges using the core principles of Human-Centered InnovationSM — our launch pad and process for pioneering new ideas to change the way health care is designed, delivered, and experienced via human-centered design….	Read More
examples of human-centered design, human-centered design in healthcare, what is human-centered design	StartPrev123NextEndPage 1 of 3
Neuroimaging Outcome in Traumatic Brain Injury Patients Treated with Hypothermia | Dana Foundation
HomeGrantsNeuroimaging Outcome in Traumatic Brain Injury Patients Treated with Hypothermia
Elizabeth Wilde, Ph.D.
Baylor College, Houston, TX
Imaging Structural Outcomes of Hypothermia Treatment for Traumatic Brain Injury
The investigators will study traumatic brain injury patients using advanced imaging methods that reveal white matter damage and will assess the efficacy of hypothermia in preventing neurological damage in these patients.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is experienced by about 1.4 million people every year in the U.S. and is a leading cause of long-term disability in people age 40 or younger. There is no effective treatment. Key priorities for TBI include not only the development of better treatment strategies, but also of more sophisticated tools for evaluating these treatments.
In this study, investigators will use imaging to assess the utility of hypothermia treatment (HT) as a treatment for TBI. In HT, the body is cooled to 91 degrees Fahrenheit as soon as possible after injury, with the intent of slowing down the biochemical processes that lead to brain tissue death and malfunction. Animal studies and small clinical trials have suggested that HT can prevent or lessen the neurological, cognitive, and behavioral consequences of TBI, and the investigators are currently testing this hypothesis in a large, NIH-funded clinical trial. With Dana support, they will perform imaging studies on 24 patients and 12 uninjured "control" participants to compare markers of structural brain damage with functional outcomes.
They will use three imaging techniques (volumetric MRI, diffusion tensor imaging, and magnetization transfer imaging) that are more sensitive than conventional techniques to widespread, subtle changes in brain structure. These techniques are particularly good for revealing damage to the brain's "white matter," the bundles of axons—long, cable-like fibers—that nerve cells use to communicate. Diffuse damage to white matter is common in TBI and may contribute substantially to neurological deficits in these patients. The investigators will determine whether HT is correlated with reduced white matter damage and will determine how these measures correlate with cognitive and behavioral outcomes in TBI patients.
Significance: The work may lead to new the development of new "gold standards" for evaluating brain injury and recovery in TBI patients and provide one of the first treatments for lessening or preventing the frequently devastating effects of TBI.
Centricity Podcast, The Women in Tech TakeOver Show Centric Health Media, is proud to support and partner with Women In Tech to readdress the balance of female representation in leadership positions across all industries with a focus on digital technology, start-ups,...
Women in Tech, Anne Cooper, Director Ethical Healthcare Consulting, Call to Action
Oct 31, 2022
Women in Tech, Anne Cooper, Director Ethical Healthcare Consulting, Call to Action Anne Cooper is a Director at Ethical Healthcare Consulting and the former Chief Nurse at NHS Digital. She has decades of experience of working in the NHS, with a focus on digital...
Clinical Master Series – Pip Hodgson, Front Line Tech & Challenges
Aug 31, 2022
Clinical Master Series – Pip Hodgson, Front Line Tech & Challenges Shocking, 62% of nurses are on some form of antidepressant! This latest result does not shock me, In 2018 pre covid a senior NHS nurse told LBC that she and her team of five are taking...
Recent Posts
The Women in Tech and Centric Collaboration Launch Brochure
DigitalHealth.London and Centric Health TV collaborate to support the sharing of digital health innovations across health and social care
The Best Practice Livestreaming Checklist
A new partnership between Centric Health Media and Kent Surrey Sussex Academic Health Science Network (KSS AHSN)
