Parents, teachers, health care providers, and other caring adults worry about the harmful influence of media messages and images on children and teens and wonder how to recognize and encourage positive and healthy use of media. For decades, experts have commented on the power of media. Media depictions can lead to negative attitudes and behavior in some young viewers. This article discusses whether prosocial, tolerant, and cooperative attitudes and behavior can be learned and imitated by children and adolescents and whether media can nurture or stimulate creativity or actively promote health and well-being in young consumers. Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Full Text Available Media audience, in general, using representation of women in the media to "see" women. How does the media show the figure of a woman often becomes references and examples used to assess women in general. Not only how man seeing woman, but women see themselves and other women see each other. This condition seemed to reinforce the encouragement of women to remain in the view of women in the past is loaded with socio-political. In many media, women are still portrayed as "mere body" related to sexuality. Besides the still dominant view that shows women as "a figure in the kitchen", the less equilibrate view that showing women in the intellectual and career figures, reinforce the representation of "traditional" women. And finally appeared in public perception will remain the same. Representation of woman according to the spirit of emancipation of women only appears in the commemoration of Kartini day, mothers day, and other momentum associated with women.
Drug Testing for Police Officers and Police Departments – TestCountry
Like any other employee with immense responsibility and control of safety-sensitive materials, a police officer must undergo drug testing to verify their drug-free status. Being aware of oneself and surroundings is vital to the safety of the police officer and any civilians he or she may be responsible for at any point. This is especially true when he or she is in a position where they must use a weapon of any sort to maintain order.
Drug Testing Policy of Police Officers
NIDA 5 drug tests are often used to screen potential police candidates before employment. The National Institute on Drug Abuse orders officers to be drug testing for the following substances (at minimum):
Police officer drug testing is conducted in a manner similar to corporate drug testing:
Notice of pre-employment drug testing must be stated in the same literature describing the officer's duties. An appointment to drug test should be scheduled upon receiving an employment offer. Employability is determined by the results of the drug test. Applicants must receive a negative test result to become a police officer.
Urine specimens are usually collected in the same region where the candidate applies to work. Only testing sites approved by the Department of Health and Humans Services may perform the drug test.
An FDA-approved immunoassay will be used for the initial test. This is usually an instant urine drug test cup which can detect up to 14 drugs of abuse
If the preliminary result is positive, the sample will be retested using GC/MS techniques.
A Medical Review Officer (MRO) will review test results and determine if it is, in fact, positive or negative after factoring in disclosed medical reasons for using drugs. This includes a discussion of the test result with the applicant, where they are given the opportunity to request verification of results at a different lab.
A confirmed positive test result will result in rejection for employment.
Test results are kept in the individual's personal and confidential medical file. Rejected applicants will have their records retained for five years, while employed staff records are retained for ten years after they leave their position.
Beyond the initial pre-employment drug test and background check, police officers may have to undergo periodic, random, and post-accident drug tests. Some police departments might only drug test employees once every two years, which leaves the institution at risk of drug abuse and accidents.
The most commonly used drug tests ordered for officers are urine drug test cups and instant saliva test kits.
Rapid urine drug test cups like the 12 Panel iCup Urine Drug Test Cup with Adulterants are an affordable way to maintain zero-tolerance policies within law enforcement agencies.
For cases where recent drug abuse is suspected, mouth swab drug tests can detect the use of 6 commonly abused substances almost immediately after abuse.
Officers involved in situations where force is required to subdue a perpetrator may need to submit to a post-accident drug test. This testing is done to verify that the officer involved was totally in control of their actions and not under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
If an officer tests positive for drugs or alcohol, counseling sessions and future drug testing may be required. Treatment programs are enforced as a component of the overall evaluation of an officer's performance.
France Lab Flotation Machine Reviews 2016
> France Lab Flotation Machine Reviews 2016
Flyboard Air Farthest Flight By Hoverboard Youtube
Franky Zapata sets new farthest hoverboard flight record with his prototype Flyboard Air.
A wide variety of flotation machine options are available to you, There are 13,923 suppliers who sells flotation machine on, mainly located in Asia. The top countries of suppliers are China, Taiwan, China, and India, from which the percentage of flotation machine supply is 99, 1, and 1 respectively.
continuous Flotation Machine cFM lab column reagent cart Pin Mill Plc data acquisition system Both Vale end user and Xstrata metallurgical lab have validated Eriez MPP as a reliable means for designing industrial plants. Continuous Flotation Machine CFM Mini Pilot Plant For more information, visit
lab agitair flotation machine marinecabs. review laboratory flotation machine model d, denver lab flotation cell for sale Crush Plant Agitair Flotation Cells, Agitair Lab Flotation Cells w, Get Price. lab denver flotation cell parts kartazagreba. gold touch lab machine praice india lab mills raymond lab denver flotation cell parts a number of OGG crushing machines, grinding mi
Review Article DAFdissolved air flotation Potential applications in the mining and mineral processing industry Rafael Teixeira Rodrigues, Jorge Rubio Departamento de Engenharia de Minas, Laboratrio de Tecnologia Mineral e Ambiental, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul,
Equipment Assay and Laboratory Equipment Laboratory Flotation Machines Denver 500 Gram Laboratory Flotation Machine ID 125730. Denver Laboratory Flotation Machine.
Lab Flotation Machine Price Guide 2017 Lab Flotation Machine Price Guide 2017. We are an experienced manufacturer of industrial crushing, powder grinding and mineral processing equipment in Asia. The main equipment including jaw crusher, mobile crusher, sand making machine, raymond mill, ball mill, cement mill, dryer etc. We can also
Flotation 13 Twitter Flotation13 Sunday November 17 th 14.00 Elsevier Author Workshop exhibition booth and poster setup 16.3018.00 Registration and wine reception, with hot and cold canaps accompanying persons welcome
Dr. Kanner has retired from clinical practice and is no longer seeing patients outside the research setting.
I have never had a doctor be more concerned. I was in her care for 2 hours with her checking out problem the entire time.
These professionals are truely caring and concerned about their clients. They are just the greatest!
I really appreciate the dedication and willing to my care provider to understand my needs and fear related to my medical condition
The Dr. was very thorough and extremely helpful in explaining my options for treatment. He also introduced me to "My Chart" which has been a very good way to communicate with the Dr. and/or staff. I really appreciate having this option.
I was extremely impressed with the great service provided by the doctor, I've never been treated so thoroughly before. I was a great experience!
I have to come to this clinic since it is the only cystic fibrosis center in Utah, however, when I compare care from this center to the others that I have gone to in other states, Utah CF Center has exceptional care and they truly make you feel that your cares and concerns are their top priority at that time.
Dr. Richard Kanner, MD is a Professor of Medicine in the Division of Respiratory, Critical Care and Occupational Medicine in the Department of Internal Medicine.
His research interests are Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and the health effects of air pollution. He is part of a multi-center study of COPD known as Spiromics that is trying to subdivide this entity into different groups in an effort to determine the genome and mechanism of injury for each phenotype. He is also involved in another study of COPD known as LOTT (Long-term Oxygen Treatment Trial) that is trying to determine the benefits of supplemental oxygen in patients with COPD that have normal resting oxygen saturation but whose oxygen saturation falls with exertion. In addition studies of the effects of air pollution on COPD are being planned. He is looking for any patients with COPD or even healthy cigarette smokers for these studies.
Dr. Kanner received his M.D. degree from the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center in 1962. He trained in Internal Medicine at the University of Utah Affiliated Hospitals and in Pulmonary Diseases and Physiology at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York City and at the University of Utah Health Sciences Center. He was Principal Investigator for the Lung Health Study Utah Center from 1984 to 2003. This was a series of studies of COPD. He has served on the Utah State Air Quality Board from 1988 -1997 being the Chair from 1995 – 1997. He has also served on many committees and was chair of several of them for the American Thoracic Society and the American College of Chest Physicians and was an Associate Editor of Chest.
Unfortunately, despite extensive research there is no known diabetes type 1 cure. However, there are many ways to help control diabetes. There are also ways to reduce the symptoms of diabetes.
In addition, there are also supplements available that can reduce the effects of diabetes on the internal organs. Instead of focusing on type 1diabetes cure, it is better to consider the use of alternative methods to manage your diabetes. These should be used in conjunction with your doctor's prescribed methods. Be sure to discuss these alternatives with him as well.
When you have type 1 diabetes, it means your body is not producing insulin. Earlier, this was commonly referred to at one time as juvenile diabetes because it was most prevalent in children. However, it has become a health concern for some adults as well. This is one of the most serious types of diabetes because if someone does not get their insulin, they can easily go into a diabetic coma and die.
Type 1 diabetes treatment entails the use of insulin. The insulin is either injected or taken orally. However, most people need the insulin injections to keep their blood sugar levels steady.
There are also insulin pumps that are fairly new. These pumps are the size of a small pager. The insulin is put into the body through a catheter in the stomach. It can deliver several doses a day, depending upon your insulin needs.
Diet and exercise will also play a large role in the diabetes type 1 cure and treatment. If a person who suffers from type 1 diabetes is overweight, diet and exercise are of the utmost importance.
Diabetes herbal supplements can also be included in a diabetes 1 treatment program. While a supplement may not be for everyone, those who use supplements such as Diabet-Eze report significant improves. Not only do they report they are losing weight, but their blood sugar levels are remaining more stable. Many scientists are also reporting that regeneration of insulin producing cells found in the pancreas is possible with the ingredients found in Diabet-Eze.
Each year, millions of dollars are poured into research on diabetic cures. Great strides have been made in just the last ten years when it comes to treatment and management of diabetes. There is much more needed before a type 1 diabetes cure is available. Until then, maintaining a strict program of insulin administration, diabetic medications, and herbal supplements is the best treatment option available.
There are some supplements available today that are very difficult to digest. These do not provide the needed absorption of the supplement ingredients. Diabet-Eze is a little different. It has an enteric coating. This coating allows the supplement to pass through the stomach before the coating is dissolved. All of the ingredients in the supplement are then easily absorbed into the blood stream through the intestinal lining.
Diabetic herbal supplements should be taken at least three hours after you take your diabetes prescription medication. This allows for the medications to work properly.
Diabet-Eze is taken with a full glass of water. You should also take the omega 3/DHA twice a day for added help in regulating your blood sugar levels. Consider taking Diabet-Eze for a couple of months at least. You'll probably be surprised how you feel and what your blood work will show. What do you have to lose? Finding a diabetes type 1 cure will also help to limit the amount of damage to the internal organs.
Step up stair climber This is perhaps the most common mistake for not getting the most out of the step up stair climber machine. Almost invariably, everyone when exercising with this machine will rest their arms on the railing. By doing so, the railing now becomes sort of like a crutch as it will now support some of your body weight making the exercise less intensive.
Treadmill The treadmill is perhaps the most popular cardio workout machine in the gym. A careful observation will show that many treadmill users run with too much up and downs. This mistake will wear out the person’s ankle and knee joints over time. The correct method is to take long, smooth and purposeful strides during the exercise.
Stationery Bike When exercising on the stationery bike, do adjust the height of the seat to a comfortable level. I really don’t understand why many stationery bike users adjust their seats to be either too high or too low. I mean, why be uncomfortable when exercising when you can be comfortable.
Elliptical Trainer This is also another bewildering common cardio workout mistake. You use the elliptical trainer to tone your body and to exercise for your cardiovascular fitness right? Then why is it I often see people who use the elliptical trainer exercising at a high speed? So what is the mistake? The mistake is that they have set the resistant level too low.
Jason E. Davis, MD - General Surgery - Burlington, NC | Cone Health Medical Group
Jason E. Davis, MD
Jason E. Davis, MD, is board certified in general surgery.
A meticulous surgeon, he values the importance of good communication and enjoys developing positive relationships with patients and their families. Affable, patient and empathetic, he is passionate about helping people overcome health difficulties and improve their lives for the better.
Originally from Bucks County, PA, he enjoys spending time with his wife and children, exploring the outdoors and getting ever-more involved with the North Carolina community he now proudly calls home.
"What attracted me to health care is the opportunity to apply a wide variety of interests in clinical medicine, science, business, policy and education to make a significant impact on people's lives through surgery and friendly, patient, compassionate communication. The potential to help people through what can often be a difficult and challenging experience and improve people's lives for the better is what motivates me to always want to do better." – Jason E. Davis, MD
Surgical specialties include thyroid, parathyroid, gallbladder disease, hernias and tumors, including of the gastrointestinal tract and breast tissue.
Tiotropium Bromide As Adjunct Therapy In Children With Asthma: A Clinical Experience | Research Square
Browse
Preprints
COVID-19 Preprints
Protocols
Videos
Journals
Tools & Services
Overview
Digital Editing
Professional Editing
Badges
Research Promotion
Your Cart
About
Preprint Platform
In Review
Editorial Policies
Our Team
Advisory Board
Blog
Help Center
Sign In
Submit a Preprint
Cite
Share
Download PDF
Research
Tiotropium Bromide As Adjunct Therapy In Children With Asthma: A Clinical Experience
Zainab Ridha, Marc-Antoine Bédard, Anna Smyrnova, Olivier Drouin, and 3 more
This is a preprint; it has not been peer reviewed by a journal.
https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-915681/v1
This work is licensed under a CC BY 4.0 License
Status:
Published
Journal Publication
published 01 Dec, 2021
Read the published version in Allergy, Asthma & Clinical Immunology →
Version 1
posted 29 Sep, 2021
15
You are reading this latest preprint version
Abstract
Background: The Global Initiative for Asthma has only recently been added tiotropium bromide as adjunct controller therapy in severe asthma (Step 4 or 5) in adults (2015) and children (2019). Although not yet approved for pediatric use by Health Canada, it has been occasionally offered by asthma specialists as a therapeutic trial in children with troublesome asthma or treatment adverse effects. The objective of this study was to describe the indications and real-life clinical experience in initiating tiotropium in children with asthma.
Methods: We designed a retrospective mixed-method case series study of children aged 1-17 years who initiated tiotropium in our tertiary-care centre between 2013-2020. Clinical information was extracted from electronic medical records and tiotropium dispensing, from drug claims. Parents/children and physicians independently completed a questionnaire about treatment goals, perceived efficacy, safety, satisfaction, and lessons learned.
Results: The 34 (11 females; 23 males) children had a median (range) age of 9.1 (1.4-17.8) years. Children were primarily on Step 4 (85%) or 5 (6%) prior to, yet most (84%) did not increase their treatment step after, tiotropium initiation. The physicians’ treatment goals were to improve asthma control, alleviate adverse effects of current therapy, and/or improve lung function. The most improved symptoms were coughing/moist cough, difficulty breathing, whistling breath, and bronchial secretions/mucus. Although most parents and physicans reported a significant benefit with tiotropium bromide, physicians particularly remarked, as their “lesson learned’, on the improvement in chronic symptoms in asthmatic children, particularly those with prominent moist cough and in lung function, in those with apparent fixed obstruction as well as the ability to decrease the ICS and/or LABA dose to lessen adverse effects. A few physicians raised caution on the risk of lower adherence with an additional inhaler.
Conclusion: In children with severe asthma on Step 4 or 5, tiotropium bromide was primarily used as substitute, rather than additional, adjunct therapy to improve asthma control, alleviate adverse effects and/or to improve lung function. The latter two indications, combined with its perceived effectiveness in children with prominent moist cough, also suggest additional indications of tiotropium to be formally explored.
Immunology
Allergy & Immune Disorders
Asthma
Children
Tiotropium Bromide
Therapeutic Trial
Pediatric Care
Case Series
Figures
Figure 1
Figure 2
Figure 3
1. Background
Tiotropium bromide (Spiriva®) is a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) interfering with muscarinic M3 post-synaptic receptors; its use in asthma in adults has been associated with bronchodilation and decreased bronchial secretions, although it may also inhibit airway inflammation and remodeling (1, 2). The comparable safety profile of tiotropium to placebo has been repeatedly demonstrated in children and adolescents (3, 4). Since 2019, the international Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) guidelines recommend considering tiotropium bromide as an add-on therapy to inhaled steroids (ICS) and long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA) as Step 4 (as an “other” controller option) or Step 5 (as “preferred” controller option, before considering biologics) therapy in children aged 6 years and older (5). However, evidence supporting its efficacy in children less than 12 years old, particularly those less than 6 years, remains limited to few trials (6–9). While Canada and Japan have not yet authorized its use in children and adolescents (10, 11), tiotropium bromide has received regulatory approvals in children of 6 years and over in several countries, including the European Union (2015) by the European Medicines Agency (12), United States (2017) by the Food and Drug Administration (13), and Australia by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (2019) (14); with a handful of countries authorizing its use in children as young as 1 year old (e.g., Chile, Peru). With only one trial (7), tiotropium uses in preschoolers is not currently mentioned in any guidelines (15–17), leaving few tested adjunct controller options for severe uncontrolled children with asthma in this young age group. In real-life practice, other indications may arise where tiotropium could be considered by asthma specialists, particularly in children with troublesome asthma and/or treatment adverse effects. Sharing this experience could generate new hypotheses regarding subgroups of patients or indications to support new research avenues.
The primary objective of this study was to describe, from a multi-faceted perspective, the indication and real-life clinical experience of initiating tiotropium bromide in pediatric patients treated in a Canadian tertiary-care pediatric asthma centre, from the perspective of physicians and families.
2. Methods
We designed a mixed-method retrospective case series of children who initiated tiotropium bromide as a therapeutic trial at Sainte-Justine University Hospital Centre (SJUHC), a tertiary-care centre with a specialized asthma clinic. The Institutional Review Ethics Board of the SJUHC approved the study. In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, electronic parent consent was obtained through the online platform Lime Survey. Parents who had previously provided written consent to enroll in the Pediatric Asthma Database and Biobank (PADB) of the SJUHC were approached to provide informed consent to this study; children 8 years and over provided assent. As all physicians who prescribed tiotropium during the study period were co-investigators, no consent was required for physicians participating in this study.
Children were eligible if they: (i) were aged 1 to 17 years of age, (ii) spoke French and/or English and had parents who spoke French and/or English, (iii) had a diagnosis of asthma confirmed by a medical specialist according to Canadian standards of practice (18, 19), (iv) received a prescription of tiotropium documented in the medical file, (v) had confirmed pharmacy dispensation of tiotropium confirmed by the Data Registry for Prescribed Medications (reMed) and (vi) had at least one follow-up asthma clinic visit three or more months after treatment initiation. Eligible patients with other chronic lung diseases were excluded.
The Pediatric Asthma Database and Biobank (PADB) was used to describe patients’ baseline (age, sex) and treatment (date of initiation, name, format and dose of medication and co-intervention, and treatment step both on arrival and discharge) characteristics. Briefly, the PADB, described in another study (20), is a structured electronic medical record with systematic documentation of sociodemographic characteristics; asthma diagnosis, phenotype, severity and control; pulmonary function tests results, when applicable; co-morbidities and environmental asthma triggers, as well as maintenance and/or rescue therapy reported on arrival to, and prescribed on discharge from, the clinic. The Data Registry for Prescribed Medications (reMed) provided data on all prescriptions served by any of Quebec’s pharmacies, claimed by privately or publicly insured patients was used to document pharmacy dispensing of tiotropium (21).
We designed a 14-item questionnaire to assess the children/parents’ and the treating physicians' perspectives regarding the indication and comfort level for tiotropium initiation, perceived efficacy and safety, reasons for, and outcome of, treatment cessation, perceived compliance with concurrent asthma medications, and satisfaction. The comfort level, as well as the overall assessment of efficacy, safety, adverse effects, and satisfaction, were assessed on a 7-point Likert scale, from − 3 (“significant deterioration” or “not comfortable at all”) to + 3 (“significant improvement” or “very comfortable”), with 0 meaning “neutral”. Children’/parents’ and physicians’ perceptions were collected independently, and children 8 years and over were encouraged to help complete the questionnaire with their parents. Participants could add comments in any of the survey’s questions. The children/parents’ and the treating physicians' questionnaires were almost identical, except for an additional open-ended question about lessons learned from the therapeutic trial asked only of physicians. Following the back-translation approach (22) and pretesting in parents and physicians, the electronic questionnaire was available in French and English.
Consenting parents and children over eight years of age were invited to complete the online electronic survey together. Alternatively, the questionnaire could be administered by telephone, in which case participants were asked for permission to record the conversation to maximize accuracy. Participants received a 5$ compensation. The link to the questionnaire was sent to physicians by email, and they were encouraged to access the patient’s structured electronic medical chart to improve accuracy.
Statistics: Patients’ characteristics, as well quantitative results, and responses from questionnaires, were reported with simple statistics: numbers and proportions for categorical variables and medians (IQR)/means (SD) for continuous variables. Data were analyzed using SPSS v.20 (IBM Inc.).
3. Results
Between August 2013 and August 2020, 34 children with asthma were prescribed tiotropium; all were eligible to participate and had confirmation of drug dispensation by pharmacy records. Physicians completed the questionnaire for all 34 children. With 3 parents (9%) declining participation and 4 (12%) consenting without completing the questionnaire, 27 parental questionnaires were completed, 7 of which with the child’s input. The questionnaire was completed less than a year after tiotropium initiation in 6 (22%), between 1 to 2 years in 14 (52%) and more than 2 years in 7 (26%) patients; most parents 18 (67%) reported that the delay did not affect their ability to answer the questions. Similarly, with access to medical records, physicians reported no interference of the delay on the perceived accuracy of their responses for all children.
The 34 (11 females; 23 males) children had a median (range) age of 9.1 (1.4–17.8) years; 7 (21%) were less than 6 years, 18 (53%) between 6 and 11 years, and 9 (26%) were 12 years and older at tiotropium initiation. Spiriva Respimat® Softmist 2.5 ug 1 puff or 2 puffs once daily via a holding chamber or Spiriva Handihaler 18 ug 1 puff once daily were used in 1 (3%), 21 (62%), and 12 (35%) children, respectively. Using the GINA’s 2020 age-specific defined treatment steps (23) prior to tiotropium initiation, 3 (9%) children (which were all aged ≥ 12 years) were on GINA Step 3 therapy (low dose ICS with LABA, or leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRA)), 29 (85%) on Step 4 with a medium ICS dose with LABA or LTRA or a high ICS dose and 2 (6%) on Step 5 with high dose ICS with LABA and/or LTRA (Figs. 1A and 1B). The initiation of tiotropium resulted in only 4 (13%) patients moving to a higher treatment GINA Step; 26 (84%) children maintained their initial treatment step either by replacing another adjunct therapy (LABA or LTRA) or by decreasing the ICS dose, and the remaining 1 (3%) child decreased his treatment step, primarily by the daily ICS dose (Fig. 1B). In three patients, namely one aged < 6 years old at step 4 (high ICS dose) therapy, one aged 6–11 years at step 4 (medium ICS dose + 1 adjunct therapy), and one aged > 12 years old at step 3 (low ICS dose + 1 adjunct therapy) before tiotropium initiation, the treatment step after tiotropium initiation could not be determined because missing information. Of note, although there is no GINA Step 5 for preschoolers, we assumed that all those on Step 4 in whom tiotropium was an added adjunct therapy moved to Step 5.
Treatment goals for the addition of tiotropium according to the parents/children and the physicians are depicted in Fig. 2. Physicians prescribed tiotropium, primarily to improve lung function in 23 (68%), improve control of interim (between-exacerbation) symptoms in 22 (65%) and/or reduce adverse effects on current therapy in 16 (47%), children. In addition to these, parents also primarily perceived tiotropium as a means to decrease the severity and frequency of exacerbations in 19 (70%) and 18 (67%) children, respectively. More than one indication was reported for 26/27 (96%) children by parents and 25/34 (74%) children by physicians. Of note, improving lung function or reducing adverse effects was the only physician-reported indication in 7 (21%) and 2 (6%) children, respectively. In fact, the only indication for initiating tiotropium in the 3 patients aged ≥ 12 years on GINA Step 3 prior to initiation, was to reverse an otherwise asymptomatic fixed airway obstruction.
The main adverse effects on prior therapy motivating the initiation of tiotropium were; (i) growth retardation (9/16), attributed to fluticasone, fluticasone/salmeterol or mometasone furoate, (ii) adrenal insufficiency (1/16), attributed to fluticasone/salmeterol, or (iii) neuropsychiatric symptoms such as aggressivity (6/16) and sleep disorder (3/16), attributed to montelukast, fluticasone/salmeterol and/or budesonide/formoterol, and tachyphylaxis of long-acting beta-agonists (mentioned in the lessons learned by 2 physicians). In 91% (31/34) of children, tiotropium was prescribed as a means to replace or reduce the dose of the perceived offending molecule, most frequently the ICS (alone or in a fixed ICS/LABA combination), LABA (in a fixed combination) or LTRA. Other indications to add tiotropium included decreasing ICS/LABA dose to prevent adverse effects (4/34), preventing ICS dose escalation (1/34), and difficulty administering another drug (1/34). Physicians were comfortable prescribing tiotropium in 71% of patients, and most parents (89%; 24/27) were comfortable with initiating it.
Overall, 93% of parents and 71% of physicians reported asthma improvement (+ 1 to + 3 on the 7-point Likert scale) after tiotropium initiation; no parent described deterioration (-3 to -1). Reported changes following initiation of tiotropium bromide were decreased interim symptoms in 76% and 89% children, according to physicians and parents, respectively, followed by decreased severity and frequency of exacerbations, and improved lung function (Fig. 3A). According to parents and physicians, the most improved symptoms were cough, breathing difficulty, whistling breath, and bronchial secretions/mucus. (Fig. 3B) Other perceived improvements included better control during exercise and reduction in thoracic pain.
Only 8/34 (24%) patients had stopped the medication prior to completing the survey. According to physicians, the main reasons for cessation were significant asthma improvement (3 [38%]), lack of improvement (2 [25%]), slight asthma deterioration (2 [25%]) and poor medication adherence (1 [13%]). After a trial of cessation, 5 (63%) children restarted tiotropium, following which improvement was reported in 3/5, no significant change in 1/5, and unsure in the remainder child.
No patient stopped using tiotropium because of adverse effects. Adverse effects were reported by parents in 2 (7%) children, one with xerostomia and one with insomnia. Physicians reported adverse effects in 2 (6%) children, one with constipation and one with insomnia; headaches were reported as an uncertain side effect in a third one. The overwhelming majority (93%) of parents and all physicians indicated that they would try tiotropium again based on their experience.
While most (93%) parents and physicians (82%) reported that the initiation of tiotropium to the treatment plan did not affect the parents’ ability to give other prescribed medications, some physicians raised caution about initiating another inhaler in patients with doubtful medication adherence and those taking numerous (anti-asthmatic or other) drugs.
Physicians were asked the main lessons learned from initiating tiotropium. A majority mentioned the good improvement in chronic symptoms, particularly in children with prominent moist cough and bronchial secretions, followed by the ability to decrease the dose of ICS and/or LABA combination to lessen associated adverse effects (e.g., growth retardation, adrenal insufficiency, neuropsychiatric symptoms, tachyphylaxis etc.). Several physicians noted a significant improvement in lung function, indicating that they would try tiotropium again in the future, in children with apparent fixed airflow obstruction despite optimized standard therapy. After gaining experience with several individual patient trials, most physicians mentioned increasing comfort with prescribing this drug. even if still off labeled for specific age groups or indications in Canada.
4. Discussion
In this group of children, the physicians’ indications for prescribing tiotropium bromide were primarily to improve asthma control (interim symptoms), improve lung function or alleviate perceived adverse events of current treatment regimen. Parents’ main indication for initiation also included frequency and severity of exacerbations. Children were primarily at GINA step 4 or 5 prior to, but the overwhelming majority maintained their treatment step after, tiotropium initiation as the later most frequently replaced another adjunct or permitted a decrease in ICS dose.
Most parents and physicians perceived the initiation of tiotropium as effective and safe. It appeared particularly effective in decreasing the severity and frequency of asthma exacerbations as well as diminishing chronic symptoms, particularly moist cough and bronchial secretions. These observations, predominantly documented in preschoolers and children under 12 years, are in line with a systematic review of 1902 children with asthma aged 1 to 17 years with moderate to severe symptomatic asthma, of which nearly half were aged 6 to 11 years, also attesting to significantly reduced chronic symptoms, improved lung function, and decreased exacerbation frequency (8). Most parents/patients and all physicians mentioned they would try tiotropium again.
As per GINA recommendations, most patients in our study were at Step 4 or 5 (23) prior to tiotropium initiation; yet unexpectedly, few children increased their treatment Step after its initiation. Indeed, tiotropium was used in about half of children as an alternative long-acting bronchodilator to LABA or alternative adjunct therapy to ICS because of adverse effects with current medications, such as neuropsychiatric effects attributed to montelukast (20), tachyphylaxis with LABA, or growth failure with a fixed ICS/LABA combination inhaler (24). Poor tolerance or suboptimal efficacy of recommended standard therapy appeared as major motivators for clinicians to deviate from current pediatric guidelines by using tiotropium that remains off-label in Canada, and without stepping-up therapy, suggesting a specific niche of this drug, in light of its recognized safety profile (3).
Another possible indication appears to be patients presenting with fixed airway obstruction in patients on Steps 4 and 5 therapies, in whom improvement was observed. Recent data revealed promising perspectives for tiotropium as both an anti-inflammatory and anti-remodeling molecule, acting independently from the T2 inflammatory cascade, that could explain this improvement (25, 26). Finally, patients with moist cough and abundant bronchial secretions between and during exacerbations appear to respond particularly well to tiotropium’s anticholinergic properties, suggesting another indication.
Tiotropium was well tolerated with only few displaying expected anticholinergic adverse effects, such as xerostomia, constipation, insomnia, and possibly headaches. Those adverse effects appeared benign and self-limited and did not result in treatment cessation. These results are in line with data from a recently published review on tiotropium’s safety and tolerability, displaying an excellent safety profile in more than 6000 patients, with comparable proportions of patients reporting adverse events to those treated with placebo (27). In children aged 1 to 5 years, the only published RCT testing the initiation of tiotropium versus placebo as add-on to ICS as Step 3 option also reported similar safety profile (7). Given its reported safety profile, tiotropium probably deserves rigorous testing as potential adjunct to ICS as Step 3 alternative therapy, compared to LABA or LTRA, neither of which has been formally tested in preschoolers.
This study’s strengths include the independent patients’ and physicians’ feedbacks based on real-life clinical data on indication, efficacy, and safety. Most patients continued treatment beyond a year, allowing adequate time to evaluate key efficacy endpoints, namely exacerbations and chronic symptoms. We recognize several limitations. The small sample size without a control group as well as the absence of formal assessment of asthma control, treatment adherence and lung function in parental and physician questionnaires, prior and after treatment initiation, precludes firm conclusions on safety and efficacy. The retrospective design may have decreased precision and/or introduced a recall bias for both families and physicians, most of whom answered more than one year after initiation. Yet, most responders indicated that the delay was unlikely to affect their response as the majority of children were still taking tiotropium at the time of the survey and all physicians had accessed the patient’s medical records to review indication and response. Of note, the identification of all eligible children based on a complete electronic database, with no patient omitted and an excellent participation rate, minimized the risk of selection bias. The online electronic questionnaires, conceived to alert responders of missing answers, resulted in complete questionnaires for all those initiated. An independent biostatistician analyzed the data. Although we cannot attest to accuracy when measuring parental perception and global assessment of response, based on objective and subjective indicators, the highly concordant response between parents’ and physicians’ perspectives collected independently suggest robustness in findings.
5. Conclusions
In conclusion, these clinical observations suggest three additional indications, other than severe uncontrolled asthma, for considering the initiation of tiotropium, namely, to reverse apparent fixed airway obstruction, alleviate perceived adverse events of current treatment regimen while maintaining asthma control, and reducing moist cough and bronchial secretions. These observations are offered as hypothesis-generating that would need to be tested in prospective pediatric and adult studies.
Abbreviations
Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA)
Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)
Long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA)
Long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)
Leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRA)
Pulmonary function test (PFT)
Randomized control trial (RCT)
Declarations
Ethics approval and consent to participate
The Institutional Review Ethics Board of the Sainte-Justine University Hospital Centre approved this study. All participants enrolled in this study consented to participate. In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, electronic parent consent was obtained through the online platform Lime Survey; children 8 years and over provided assent. As all physicians were co-investigators, no consent was required for physicians participating in this study.
Consent for publication
Not applicable.
Availability of data and materials
The datasets generated and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author of this study on reasonable request.
Competing interests
In the past 24 months, Francine M. Ducharme has received unrestricted research funds from Jamieson, Teva, Novartis, and Trudell Medical; research grants from Covis, GlaxoSmithKline, MEDteq and Thorasys; honorarium for consultancy work or speaking from Astra Zeneca, Brunet Pharmacy, Covis, Fédération des Médecins spécialistes du Québec, GlaxoSmithKline, Ontario Lung Association, Sanofi, Teva, and Thorasys, none of which have influenced this project. The other authors of this manuscript declared that there are no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, or publication of this article.
Funding
The Fonds de Recherche du Québec-Santé provided infrastructure support to the Research Centre of the CHU Sainte-Justine for this project. This study was funded by a Summer Studentship research grant awarded to Zainab Ridha by the Canadian Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (CSACI) and the Academic Chair in Clinical Research on Pediatric Asthma and Knowledge Transfer of the Sainte-Justine University Hospital Centre. Olivier Drouin was supported by a Chercheur Boursier Clinicien – Junior 1 Award, from the Fonds de recherche du Québec – Santé.
The authors received no other financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
Authors' contributions
ZR developed the protocol and collected the data. ZR and MAB contributed to the analysis, interpretation of results, writing of the manuscript, under the supervision of FMD. AS contributed to the methodology and data analysis. All authors reviewed the results and contributed to the final version of the manuscript. All authors have agreed both to be personally accountable for the author's own contributions and to ensure that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work, even ones in which the author was not personally involved, are appropriately investigated, resolved, and the resolution documented in the literature.
Acknowledgements
We acknowledge the support of the Fonds de la Recherche du Québec en Santé (FRQS) for the infrastructure support provided to the Research Institutes of the Sainte-Justine University Hospital Centre (SJUHC). We thank parents of children enrolled in this study; Lucie Blais, PhD, for providing access to the Data Registry for Prescribed Medications (reMed), and Annie Théorêt for providing administrative support. The authors obtained permission to acknowledge from all those mentioned in this section.
Findings presented in this manuscript were presented in part as an oral presentation at the 75th Canadian Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology Annual Scientific Virtual Meeting, in October 2020.
References
Radovanovic D, Santus P, Blasi F, Mantero M. The evidence on tiotropium bromide in asthma: from the rationale to the bedside. Multidisciplinary Respiratory Medicine. 2017;12(1):12.
Cazzola M, Rogliani P, Matera MG. The latest on the role of LAMAs in asthma. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2020;146(6):1288–91.
Hamelmann E, Szefler SJ. Efficacy and Safety of Tiotropium in Children and Adolescents. Drugs. 2018;78(3):327–38.
Dusser D, Ducharme FM. Safety of tiotropium in patients with asthma. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2019;13:1753466618824010-.
Global strategy for asthma management and prevention. 2019 [Internet]. 2019. [cited Last accessed 4 March 2021]. Available from: https://ginasthma.org/pocket-guide-for-asthma-management-and-prevention/.
Vogelberg C, Goldstein S, Graham L, Kaplan A, de la Hoz A, Hamelmann E. A comparison of tiotropium, long-acting β(2)-agonists and leukotriene receptor antagonists on lung function and exacerbations in paediatric patients with asthma. Respir Res. 2020;21(1):19-.
Vrijlandt E, El Azzi G, Vandewalker M, Rupp N, Harper T, Graham L, et al. Safety and efficacy of tiotropium in children aged 1–5 years with persistent asthmatic symptoms: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet Respir Med. 2018;6(2):127–37.
Murphy KR, Chipps BE. Tiotropium in children and adolescents with asthma. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2020;124(3):267 – 76.e3.
Sunther M, Marchon K, Gupta A. Tiotropium in the management of paediatric and adolescent asthma: Systematic review. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2020.
CDEC FINAL RECOMMENDATION [Internet]. 2015 [cited Last accessed 9 march 2021. ]. Available from: https://www.cadth.ca/tiotropium-bromide.
Report on the Deliberation Results [Internet]. 2015 [cited Last accessed 9 march 2021. ]. Available from: https://www.pmda.go.jp/english/review-services/reviews/approved-information/drugs/0001.html#select20.
Opinion of the Paediatric Committee on the acceptance of a modification of an agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan [Internet]. 2015 [cited Last accessed 9 march 2021. ]. Available from: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/paediatric-investigation-plans/emea-000035-pip02-09-m02.
FDA Expands Approval of SPIRIVA® RESPIMAT® (tiotropium bromide) Inhalation Spray for Maintenance Treatment of Asthma in Children [Internet]. 2017 [cited Last accessed 9 march 2021]. Available from: https://www.boehringer-ingelheim.us/press-release/fda-expands-approval-spiriva-respimat-tiotropium-bromide-inhalation-spray.
Australian Public Assessment Report for Tiotropium [Internet]. 2019 [cited Last accessed 9 march 2021. ]. Available from: https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/auspar-tiotropium-190613.pdf.
Recognition and management of severe asthma - Position Statement [Internet]. 2017 [cited Last accessed 4 march 2021. ]. Available from: https://ginasthma.org/pocket-guide-for-asthma-management-and-prevention/.
A Focused Update on the Management of Very Mild and Mild Asthma [Internet]. 2021 [cited Last accessed 4 march 2021. ]. Available from: https://ginasthma.org/pocket-guide-for-asthma-management-and-prevention/.
Cloutier MM, Baptist AP, Blake KV, Brooks EG, Bryant-Stephens T, DiMango E, et al. 2020 Focused Updates to the Asthma Management Guidelines: A Report from the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program Coordinating Committee Expert Panel Working Group. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2020;146(6):1217–70.
Ducharme FM, Dell SD, Radhakrishnan D, Grad RM, Watson WT, Yang CL, et al. Diagnosis and management of asthma in preschoolers: A Canadian Thoracic Society and Canadian Paediatric Society position paper. Can Respir J. 2015;22(3):135–43.
Lougheed MD, Lemiere C, Ducharme FM, Licskai C, Dell SD, Rowe BH, et al. Canadian Thoracic Society 2012 guideline update: diagnosis and management of asthma in preschoolers, children and adults. Can Respir J. 2012;19(2):127–64.
Benard B, Bastien V, Vinet B, Yang R, Krajinovic M, Ducharme FM. Neuropsychiatric adverse drug reactions in children initiated on montelukast in real-life practice. European Respiratory Journal. 2017;50(2).
Blais L, Vilain A, Kettani F-Z, Forget A, Lalonde G, Beauchesne M-F, et al. Accuracy of the days’ supply and the number of refills allowed recorded in Québec prescription claims databases for inhaled corticosteroids. BMJ Open. 2014;4(11).
Chen H-Y, Boore JRP. Translation and back-translation in qualitative nursing research: methodological review. J Clin Nurs. 2010;19(1-2):234–9.
Global strategy for asthma management and prevention. 2020 [Internet]. 2020 [cited Last accessed 4 march 2021. ]. Available from: https://ginasthma.org/pocket-guide-for-asthma-management-and-prevention/.
Zhang L, Prietsch SO, Ducharme FM. Inhaled corticosteroids in children with persistent asthma: effects on growth. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014;7:CD009471.
Kistemaker LEM, Prakash YS. Airway Innervation and Plasticity in Asthma. Physiology. 2019;34(4):283–98.
Casale TB, Bateman ED, Vandewalker M, Virchow JC, Schmidt H, Engel M, et al. Tiotropium Respimat Add-on Is Efficacious in Symptomatic Asthma, Independent of T2 Phenotype. The Journal of Allergy Clinical Immunology: In Practice. 2018;6(3):923 – 35.e9.
Dusser D, Ducharme FM. Safety of tiotropium in patients with asthma. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2019;13:1753466618824010.
Cite
Share
Download PDF
Status:
Published
Journal Publication
published 01 Dec, 2021
Read the published version in Allergy, Asthma & Clinical Immunology →
Version 1
posted 29 Sep, 2021
Editorial decision: Major revision
28 Oct, 2021
Review #2 received at journal
27 Oct, 2021
Reviewer #4 agreed at journal
20 Oct, 2021
Review #1 received at journal
20 Oct, 2021
Review #4 received at journal
20 Oct, 2021
Review #3 received at journal
20 Oct, 2021
Reviews received at journal
19 Oct, 2021
Reviewers invited by journal
18 Oct, 2021
Reviewer #2 agreed at journal
18 Oct, 2021
Reviewer #3 agreed at journal
18 Oct, 2021
Reviewer #1 agreed at journal
18 Oct, 2021
Submission checks completed at journal
22 Sep, 2021
Editor invited by journal
22 Sep, 2021
Editor assigned by journal
19 Sep, 2021
First submitted to journal
16 Sep, 2021
You are reading this latest preprint version
Research Square lets you share your work early, gain feedback from the community, and start making changes to your manuscript prior to peer review in a journal.
As a division of Research Square Company, we’re committed to making research communication faster, fairer, and more useful. We do this by developing innovative software and high quality services for the global research community. Our growing team is made up of researchers and industry professionals working together to solve the most critical problems facing scientific publishing.
Displaying results 31 to 40 of 1295.
Achaemenid residences and their 'paradises': Landscape archaeology between Persia and the Caucasus – PARADISE
Contrary to its immense historical impact on the cultures of the Ancient Near East and the Eastern Mediterranean, the Achaemenid Empire (539-331 BC) has been difficult to grasp archaeologically outsid
Achievable regions of bursty multi-user wireless communications – ARburst
The exponential growth of connected devices has lead to a new kind of networks called machine to machine (M2M) and Internet of Things (IoT) networks. Future scenarios in mobile communications envisage
Acoustics-Music-Instrument Making Interface Laboratory – LIAMFI
The evolution of musical instruments follows a pattern repeatedly. Starting from a given instrument, instrumentalists try to use it to get new sounds and composers take this into account in their comp
Actions of Groups, Isometries, Rigidity and Alea – AGIRA
The project gathers seven young mathematicians (chargés de recherches and maîtres de conférences for at most 5 years) disseminated in different math departments in France. The common point between the
Active array of Quasi optical beamformers – RAFQO 2016
Thales Alenia Space (TAS-F) and IETR developed a unique know-how at the best international level on quasi-optical beamformers (FF-QO), by initiating their collaboration in the ASTRID project GRAIK. A
Adaptive Stereovision Systems in Man, Monkey and Machine – 3D3M
One of the major challenges faced by the visual system is to recover the 3D structure of the environment from the ambiguous 2D images that fall on the two retina. This project supports the hypothesis
Adaptive hybrid ligands for Catalysis: new routes for activating stable C–H and C–O bonds – ALCATRAS
SUMMARY AND ADEQUATION TO THE CALL The present program is a fundamental research project aimed at developing innovative catalytic tools for specifically addressing at short- and mid-term, respe
Adipose tissue Hematopoiesis bridging ischemic heart disease and diabetes – WAT-HEART
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD), including ischemic heart disease (IHD), are the main cause of mortality in nearly all European Union member states, accounting for almost 40% of all deaths in the region
Adult skeletal muscle stem cell regulation by Bone morphogenetic protein signaling – BMP-MYOSTEM
Adult skeletal muscle possesses the ability to fully regenerate and this depends on the presence of quiescent muscle stem cells, so-called satellite cells that lie in juxtaposition with each myofiber
Auto SEO, [basic] | Discover More About The Necessary Security In Health Given By Allergist Prescriptions.
Posted By Charles Watson on October 29, 2018
Psychosocial kinds of delicate ailment underscore endocrine and safe framework alterations in the energy of logical manifestations. Surely, mental weight and ominous emotions upgrade invulnerability intervened medicinal manifestations found in individuals with excessively touchy clutters. Analysts additionally saw the fundamental job of nervousness in invulnerable framework capacities.
Within a record of participants, stress increased the result of stress on allergy or intolerance induced histamine in response to epidermis puncture assessments. Skin testing is generally a considerable evaluation device within the clinic and could in order to confirm if specific symptomatology is usually because of allergic reaction. Results from your article writer initial study had been depending on a report of antigen reactions that individuals satisfied category requirements designed for allergy or intolerance.
That may be, they claimed a symptom history constant with allergy and displayed clinically positive responses at baseline assessments. Through that, it had been decided if these results translated to scientific ramifications. In the initial research, a good subset of people who experienced negative SPT replies to particular things that trigger allergies at primary, when retested, demonstrated an optimistic respond to at least 2 of the allergens.
Intended for the evaluation, researchers examined found in they if anxiety found in mixture with stress publicity increased incidence of positive reactions to allergens recently testing limiting. Subsequently, individuals reported medical background of allergy symptoms had been used to regulate how to translate potential modifications. Such results may suggest 2 options.
Exception prerequisites included unique unfavorably susceptible response immunotherapy, vigorous pharmaceuticals, psychotropic meds, extraordinary mixed drinks, asthma or smoking. The ongoing use of some hypersensitivity or narrow mindedness pharmaceuticals was restricted as per proposals made to upgrade results. They were solicited to stay away from the usage from enhancement C supplements no not as much as multi day preceding all examination sessions.
A testing check out included allergens to 12 basic allergens. Matters had been chosen for partaking in the evaluation based on technological history and outcomes. To meet particular requirements, people required to fulfill requisites to acquire sensitivity to aid dust aggravate because of exploration goals about the main research. This investigation was given saving money light by Kansas State University or college or perhaps college or university biomedical analysis assessment panel and everything people offered produced informed authorization to participate. Two Fundamental Medical Research Midsection laboratory classes have been ready in least 2 weeks aside. Both two visits used an identical schedule, diverse just in the stress factor administration state randomization intended for the take a look at.
Technologist Laboratory Iowa
Nursing (495) Assistant/Support (144) Technician (104) Therapy (71) Administration/Operations (64) Counseling (47)
Medical Imaging (43) Physician & Surgeon (35) Dietary & Nutrition (29) Home Health (24) Healthcare IT (13) Pharmacy (10) Nurse Practitioner (10) Physician Assistant (7) Education (6)
Cedar Rapids (33) Iowa City (10) Waterloo (7) Mason City (4) West Burlington (4) Ames (2)
Chariton (2) Council Bluffs (2) Des Moines (2) Elkader (2) Sibley (2) Spirit Lake (2) Boone (1) Carroll (1) Estherville (1) Guthrie Center (1) Independence (1) Mount Ayr (1) Pella (1) Sioux Center (1)
Full time (19) Part time (4) PRN (3)
Under general supervision, performs venipuncture and capillary punctures to obtain samples for analysis in caring for neonatal through geriatric patients and donors. Ensures all actions taken in carrying out responsibilities support patient centered care. Position Responsibilities Unit Specific Position Responsibilities Collects blood specimens required for the tests ordered. This includes blood collection using the vacutainer system, syringe method, butterflies, and capillary collections from heals (babies only) or fingers. Transports blood specimens to/from/within the laboratory to/from various locations within or outside the hospital, as assigned. Enters collection and workload data into the laboratory and/or hospital computer system. Performs nontechnical duties such as clerical and maintaining inventory supplies, as assigned. Cleans phlebotomy equipment and maintains work area. Performs related work as required. Qualifications, Knowledge & Experience Required...
Avera Holy Family Hospital Estherville, IA,
Medical Laboratory Technician - $6,000 Sign on Bonus Full time position working rotating day shifts in a full service clinical laboratory. Will include call, weekend, and holiday involvement. Ability to provide sample collection on adults, children, and infants required. Work in a team environment that is focused on quality assurance, customer service, and patient care. Will perform chemical, microscopic, and bacteriological tests to obtain data for use in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. Meditech experience a plus. ASCP/NCA certification required within twelve months of employment. Benefit eligible.
MercyOne Elkader Medical Center has an opening for a Full-time and PRN Medical Lab Technician (MLT/MLS). This position works a flexible work schedule. Previous hospital experience preferred, but not required. MercyOne Elkader Medical Center offers a competitive wage and limited benefits do apply. Various duties include but are not limited to: Collecting and preparing specimens such as blood, tissues, and body fluids; Performing various laboratory tests on specimens in such areas as chemistry, hematology, bacteriology, urinalysis, serology, blood bank, and blood gas on evaluating for infection or abnormalities.
On the geothermal side of the spectrum, the Heber geothermal plant owned by Ormat Technologies is expected to get four more wells. The additional wells will maintain the plant’s capacity, Ormat’s Charlene Wardlow was quoted via ivpressonline.com, and were approved by the Imperial County Planning Commission. During the decision, Imperial resident Juan Zarate called for geothermal developers to provide community benefits to the county. Wardlow responded that royalties are provided to the private land owners were the plant is located; in places like Sonoma the plant is located on public lands, which is why that county receives royalties, she was quoted.
The recent Aruvians Research report, “Analyzing Geothermal Power in the U.S.,” reaffirmed California’s position as a world leader in the geothermal business.
This article was originally published in GEA’s Geothermal Energy Weekly and was republished with permission.
Leslie is located in Washington DC at the Office of the Geothermal Energy Association and serves on the Renewable Energy World North America Conference and Expo committee.

The World Technology Network (WTN) announced this week that Konarka Technologies, Inc., has been selected as a nominee for this year’s World Technology Awards in the category of Energy.
London, England & San Francisco, California – June 26, 2003 [SolarAccess.com] Konarka leverages nanotechnology and conducting polymers to provide a source of renewable power in a variety of form factors for commercial, industrial, government and consumer applications. The award will be presented in association with NASDAQ, Accenture, TIME magazine, Dupont Textiles and Interiors, Technology Review magazine, Science magazine and Genencor International. Konarka’s technology converts sunlight as well as indoor, artificial light into direct current electrical power. The company uses unique, proprietary low-temperature production methods to put the photovoltaic cells onto flexible, lightweight plastics. “The World Technology Awards program was created to recognize truly extraordinary innovation on a global scale, the sort of work that could be described as creating our collective future and changing our world. Konarka’s contribution in the field of Energy has been outstanding, and the nomination is just an acknowledgement of that fact,” said James P. Clark, Founder and Chairman of the World Technology Network. “Now that Konarka has won several prestigious awards, we are delighted to receive this nomination from some of the most prominent thought leaders in the field of Energy as a validation of our technology,” said Dr. Bill Beckenbaugh, president and CEO, Konarka Technologies, Inc. Nominees for the 2003 World Technology Awards were identified based on an intensive, global process in which current WTN members (primarily winners and finalists of previous Awards cycles) made their nominations based on who they think are most innovative and impactful, within their particular field.
