Beware! More is Not Always Better | Chipwellness's Blog
« 3 Reasons CHIP is for YOU!
Foods Can Help Fight Cancer »
Beware! More is Not Always Better
March 15, 2011 by chipwellness
Americans are eating too much of nearly everything including sugar, fat, protein, salt, and calories. These are drivers that cause coronary artery disease, stroke, high blood pressure, type II diabetes, overweight, and some cancers. Let's take a look at each of these culprits:
Sugar – The National Research Council reports that up to 20% of many people's daily calories come from sugar. Our bodies cannot deal with excessive amounts of sugar. High fructose corn syrup, molasses, concentrated fruit juices, are just some of the sweeteners hidden in processed foods. One 12 oz. can of soda has 10 teaspoons of sugar! According to a Harvard study, one soda a day increases the risk of type II diabetes by 83%. Sugar is empty calories.
Fat – On average 35% of our calories consumed is from fat. Fat comes in many forms – saturated fat, monounsaturated fat, polyunsaturated fat, hydrogenated fat, transfat. Again, these are found predominately in processed foods.
Protein – Americans eat 2-3 times more protein than is recommended, resulting in more than a healthy dose of cholesterol and fat. Eating less protein, fat, and cholesterol will improve our health and longevity.
Salt – We consume on average 2-4 teaspoons of salt a day. It doesn't sound like much. But we only need about ¼ teaspoon a day. Much of the salt consumed is in canned, frozen, and processed foods. Look for products labeled "reduced" or "no salt".
For optimum health, be sure to include more fruits, vegetables, bean dishes in your diet. By doing so, you will automatically eliminate excessive amounts sugars, fats, proteins, and salt.
Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged CHIP, chipwellness, complimentary medicine, coronary disease, Coronary Health Improvement Program, Coronary Health Improvement Project, corporate wellness programs, health care costs, heart disease, nutrition, overweight, reduce health care costs, type II diabetes, Western diseases | Leave a Comment
A uniquely revitalizing and Electrical power containing superfood celebrated in South The united states for its concentrated diet – full of amino acids, crucial fatty acids, natural vitamins, minerals and trace components.
Core 150™ may be used to move far more than simply health supplements. Preserve fruits, snacks, natural vitamins or other dietary edibles readily available for during the day.
Rule A person Proteins is athletes, bodybuilders, crossfitters and powerlifters. Guys who've lifted a number of million lbs and downed several thousand scoops of protein. They are also complement execs who've done this ahead of. Fellas who know the difference between the good stuff plus the more than-hyped wannabes. The Rule A single Proteins executive staff brings together around 100 a long time of progress and formulation expertise.
- Taken straight soon after instruction, may lead to a spectacular rise in blood amino acids and insulin degrees – serving to muscle protein synthesis and blocking muscle tissue breakdown
Best good quality solutions by Rule 1. Company that truly thinks you will get out Anything you put in. Protein requires minimal shaking and won't go away that chalky immediately after taste, really helps make you stay up for consuming it.
• One of The main amino acids to improve athletes and bodybuilders. It performs an important function in gut well being, intestinal well being, muscle mass metabolism and mobile assist.
*The goods and also the claims created about distinct products on or by way of This page check my blog haven't been evaluated by LuckyVitamin.com or The us Meals and Drug Administration and therefore are not accepted to diagnose, handle, overcome or protect against disorder. The information provided on this site is for informational applications only and isn't intended instead for information out of your doctor or other health care Qualified or any info contained on or in any solution label or packaging.
• Whey Protein Hydrolysate can be a pre-digested protein, truly digesting as quickly or a lot quicker than amino acids. • Taken immediately following schooling, may lead to a spectacular increase in blood amino acids and insulin levels – encouraging muscle mass protein synthesis and avoiding muscle tissue breakdown
data@nutrivitashop.com Disclaimer: These statements have not been evaluated through the Meals & Drug Administration. These merchandise will not be intended to diagnose, handle, heal or protect against any illness.
With practically no Body fat, carbs, or cholesterol – and ZERO extra creamers or gums that other protein items are inclined to use as thickeners – you're finding on the list of purest quality isolated products and solutions in the marketplace.
Cheap and tastes wonderful. If you want a whey blend and also you are over a spending plan or care about style, get this.
*Be Click Here aware: charges are issue to vary and any such changes, good or damaging, might be mechanically placed on things requested by way of This system. Delivery charges is going to be extra dependant on our present shipping terms.
R1 Protein by Rule one Proteins is often a high quality high quality, ultra-pure, rapid digesting protein consisting of 25 grams of whey isolate and whey hydrolysate for every serving. We have now developed a exceptional protein with NO lactose, sugar or Body fat, ONLY two grams of carbs and just 5mg of cholesterol for each serving!
* No promises go to these guys found on this Web content or in print are actually evaluated by the Meals and Drug Administration. This product isn't intended to diagnose, take care of, cure, or stop any ailment.
And, traditional men, meaning most men, are probably cowed by a woman who takes the initiative and approaches them.
Can I ask, what are we doing here? If we’re not on this app to actually communicate with and meet other human beings, why then do we use it? What, for the love of waffle fries can someone please tell me what is the point of swiping right on…

An open label pilot study investigating non-invasive high frequency peripheral nerve fibre stimulation in chronic pain.
Providing sustained and effective treatment via the peripheral nervous system for the management of chronic pain is challenging. Application of non-invasive high frequency stimulation at or near the painful area may benefit those with chronic pain. This open label pilot survey examined the impact of this stimulation on pain intensity, activities of daily living, functional capacity and medication consumption after two weeks of treatment.Stimulation was administered at home using two high frequency sinusoidal alternating signals at 3858 Hz and 3980 Hz delivered between two electrodes placed directly over one or two locations of pain. Individuals completed a survey after two weeks to assess pain, activities of daily living (ADL), pain medication consumption, quality of life (QoL), mood, sleep, functional outcomes and satisfaction.463 individuals (372 males; 91 females) retuned the completed survey after two weeks of treatment. Pain and ADL scores significantly improved at follow-up compared to baseline (pain mean difference: 3.05; 95% CI: 2.86, 3.24; ADL mean difference: 1.82; 95% CI: 1.60, 2.04). Corresponding improvements in QoL, sleep, mood, functional outcomes and satisfaction were noted. On average 8.00 ± 11.11 hours of pain relief were reported with 54% experiencing reductions in pain medication consumption. 98% would use the stimulation in the future.Two weeks of non-invasive high frequency peripheral nerve fibre stimulation appeared to confer positive effects in individuals with pain. Future research employing a control group/arm is needed to establish the long-term impact of this bioelectric technique in specific pain cohorts.
Spinal Infusion Specialist - Portland, OR: Advanced Pain Management Center: Interventional Pain Management Physician
Spinal Infusion Specialist
Advanced Pain Management Center Our Services Spinal Infusion
Spinal infusion delivers medication directly to the spinal cord, providing fast, effective relief. Vladimir Fiks, MD, is a leading interventional pain management physician at Advanced Pain Management Center in Portland, Oregon. He leads a team trained in advanced pain management techniques such as intrathecal pump therapy. You don't have to put up with chronic pain — make an appointment today by calling the practice or booking through the website, also serving the surrounding areas of Aloha, Hillsboro, Beaverton, Tigard & Lake Oswego.
Spinal Infusion Q&A
What is spinal infusion?
Spinal infusion — also known as intrathecal pump therapy — is a method by which Dr. Fiks administers pain-relief medication directly to your spinal cord. It uses a hockey-puck sized device that contains pain medication that he surgically implants beneath the skin in the abdomen.
The intrathecal space is a fluid-filled space around your spine. Dr. Fiks attaches one end of a catheter to the pain pump and inserts the other end into the intrathecal space. The pump releases the medication based on your personal needs, and your doctor can change the program at any time. When the medication runs out, he injects more into the pain pump through your skin.
Because medication goes straight to the spinal fluid sac, you need a much smaller dose than you would with an oral pain-relieving drug.
Intrathecal pump implantation is reversible, and you can ask Dr. Fiks to remove it whenever you like.
What conditions does spinal infusion treat?
Spinal infusion helps several conditions, including but not limited to:
Meninges scarring and inflammation
Pain from certain tumors
If you have any of these conditions and other medicines haven't worked, speak with Dr. Fiks to see if spinal infusion can help with pain relief.
Who is a good candidate for spinal infusion?
There are many reasons spinal infusion may be the most appropriate treatment for you. You may be a good candidate if:
Surgery isn't an option or necessary
You're psychologically healthy
You're healthy enough to undergo implantation of the pump
You responded well to a trial dose of medication
Conservative therapies have been unsuccessful
You aren't allergic to the medicine in the pump
Dr. Fiks assesses your suitability for spinal infusion before recommending it as a treatment.
What does spinal infusion surgery involve?
Before surgery, Dr. Fiks refers you for presurgical tests that include blood tests, chest X-rays, and an electrocardiogram to make sure you're healthy enough for the procedure. The surgery takes under 2 hours, and you're asleep the whole time. Most people go home the same day of surgery with postoperative care instructions for self-care.
Spinal infusion is an effective way of managing pain while weaning people off higher-strength medication. If you have concerns about back pain, make an appointment at Advanced Pain Management Center today by calling the office or booking through the website.
Breast Care Services at Medical Plaza - Clemmons - Wake Forest Baptist Health
Breast Care Services at Medical Plaza - Clemmons
We are pleased to offer the same high quality breast care services provided on our main campus at our newest location, Medical Plaza - Clemmons; a service of NC Baptist Hospital.Staffed by the same physicians, staff and technologists as the Comprehensive Cancer Center, the services offered include:Screening and diagnostic mammography, including 3D mammography (breast tomosynthesis). This advanced technology has been shown in clinical studies to be superior to traditional 2D digital mammography.A benign breast clinic A breast cancer survivor clinicConvenient access to chemotherapy treatment at Medical Plaza – Clemmons Quick Reference
Transplantation and diabetes (Transdiab): a pilot randomised controlled trial of metformin in impaired glucose tolerance after kidney transplantation | BMC Nephrology | Full Text
Basil Alnasrallah ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0003-1973-00301,
Tze Liang Goh1,
Lai Wan Chan1,
Paul Manley1 &
Helen Pilmore1,2
BMC Nephrology volume 20, Article number: 147 (2019) Cite this article
Post transplantation diabetes mellitus (PTDM) is a common and serious complication after renal transplantation with significant morbidity and mortality. Metformin has proven benefits in the general population and might be advantageous in the prevention and management of PTDM.
Transplantation and Diabetes (Transdiab) is a single-centre, unblinded, pilot randomised controlled trial assessing the feasibility, tolerability and efficacy of metformin after renal transplantation in patients with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT). Participants had an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in the 4–12 weeks post-transplantation; those with IGT were randomised to standard care or standard care and metformin 500 mg twice daily and followed up for 12 months.
Seventy eight patients had an OGTT over 24 months, 25 of them had IGT, of those, 19 patients were randomised, giving a feasibility of recruitment of 24.4%. Ten patients were randomised to metformin and 9 patients to standard care. Tolerability and efficacy was similar between the 2 groups with no serious adverse events. There was no difference in secondary outcomes relating to the metabolic profile.
The use of metformin post renal transplantation appeared feasible and safe. Larger randomised controlled trials (RCTs) are needed to establish and confirm the efficacy and safety of metformin post renal transplantation.
Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12614001171606. Date of registration 7/11/2014.
End-stage kidney disease (ESKD) is a major public health problem with rising prevalence worldwide. In 2015, there were 4368 people receiving renal replacement therapy for ESKD in New Zealand. Of these, 1694 (39%) had a functioning kidney transplant [1]. Renal transplantation remains the optimal choice for managing ESKD as it offers better survival [2, 3], quality of life [4] and long-term cost [5] compared with dialysis treatment. Despite this, the morbidity and mortality of renal transplant recipients remain considerably higher than that of general population [6], with cardiovascular disease accounting for almost 50% of deaths in these patients [7, 8] and prevalence rates of cardiovascular disease 3–5 times higher than matched general population [9, 10].
An important risk factor for this high mortality and morbidity is post transplantation diabetes mellitus (PTDM). This entity has been recognized for many years with the first cases being described as early as 1964 by Thomas Starzl, but it was in 2003 that consensus guidelines were published setting forth the diagnosis and management recommendations for new onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) [11]. More recently the term NODAT was replaced by PTDM as the earlier terminology implies that diabetes prior to transplantation has been adequately excluded which is impractical and often not the case [12].
PTDM is common post transplantation with reported incidence as high 50% [13], however, the true incidence is difficult to determine as there is a wide quoted range which pertains mainly to the heterogeneity of the trials in the literature. Variables such as the transplanted organ, the criteria used for diagnosis, testing times and immunosuppressive regimens all play significant roles in this fact [7, 14].
A combination of traditional and transplant related risk factors are responsible for this risk of PTDM. Of the traditional risk factors, Impaired Glucose Tolerance (IGT), older age, obesity, genetic predisposition, metabolic syndrome, hepatitis C infection and unhealthy life style have all been implicated in the development of PTDM [15,16,17]. Of the transplant related factors, the lifelong use of immunosuppressive medications plays a dominant role due to their deleterious effects on glucose metabolism, namely, corticosteroids, calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs), and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors [17].
IGT post transplantation is also a risk factor for developing PTDM with 15% incidence in 1 year [18] and 27% over 6 years [19]. Furthermore, IGT is associated with increased mortality and overall graft loss [20, 21].
Metformin proved to be an effective therapy to prevent the development of diabetes mellitus in non-transplant patients with impaired glucose metabolism [22]. However, there is lack of evidence for such intervention in transplant patients. Targeting this group of patients will be important to address their PTDM risk.
We undertook a pilot study assessing the feasibility, safety, tolerability and efficacy of metformin over 12 months of follow up in patients with IGT diagnosed early after kidney transplantation. The secondary outcomes measured were changes in lipid profile, weight and cardiovascular events.
The trial has been registered with Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTRN12614001171606), date of registration 7/11/2014. Ethical approval has been obtained through the Northern B Health and Disability Ethics Committee of the Ministry of Health in New Zealand. Ethics approval number is 14/ STH/129. We have followed CONSORT guidelines for reporting randomized feasibility trials [23].
Transplantation and Diabetes (Transdiab) is a single-centre, parallel-group, unblinded, randomised controlled trial with two arms: an intervention group and a standard care group. The study protocol in detail has been previously published [24], an outline of the study is shown in Fig. 1.
Flow chart of Transdiab trial. IGT, impaired glucose tolerance; OGTT, oral glucose tolerance test
Adult patients receiving a kidney transplant between 30 November 2014 and 30 November 2016 at Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand, were considered for enrollment.
Patients were eligible for inclusion if they were 18 years or older, non-diabetic, able to participate in all trial investigations for the 12 month follow-up and able to provide written informed consent.
We excluded patients who had one or more the following: diabetes mellitus at the time of transplant (whether on treatment or not), history of antidiabetic therapy, unable to consent, steroid pulse therapy in the 2 weeks prior to OGTT, pregnancy or breast feeding, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ≤30 mL/min/1.73 m2 BSA (body surface area) by the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula, current substance abuse (including alcohol) and any major illness or comorbidity that may result in death within 12 months.
All potential participants were identified during their admission for the procedure of kidney transplantation. Consented candidates had an OGTT done within 4–12 weeks after the transplantation. Consented patients had their information collected and stored securely, electronically on a password-protected computer and physically in the research office by the research fellow. Enrolling the participants, generating the allocation sequence, and assigning the groups were carried out by the research fellow.
Patients with a 2-h post-load glucose level between 7.8 and 11.1 mmol/L on OGTT (75 g anhydrous glucose dissolved in water) were randomized. Randomisation was done using a computer-generated sequence allocation in closed envelopes in blocks of four in a 1:1 ratio to receive either standard care or standard care plus metformin 500 mg twice daily, both groups were followed up for 1 year.
Participants in the standard care group received routine post-transplant care directed by the renal transplant team. This included immunosuppressive medications and other treatments as per usual local practice. Standard immunosuppression included basiliximab as induction therapy, mycophenolate mofetil 1 g twice daily, a calcineurin inhibitor (ciclosporin or tacrolimus with dose based on body weight), and steroids (tapering dose over 3 months down to a maintenance of 7.5 mg of prednisone daily).
The lifestyle standard care included advice for regular exercise thrice weekly and a nutritional assessment by a renal dietician. The nutrition care involves guiding patients on the habits of healthy eating and food safety after transplantation.
Participants randomised to the intervention group received metformin 500 mg twice daily in addition to the standard post-transplant care. The metformin was started at randomisation and continued for 12 months.
Feasibility of recruitment was assessed by examining the percentage of randomised patients of those screened with OGTTs.
Tolerability of metformin was evaluated by the gastrointestinal symptom rating scale (GSRS) at 3 and 12 months post randomization. GSRS has been validated to assess symptoms in gastrointestinal disorders [25, 26].
Efficacy of metformin was assessed by measuring morning fasting glucose levels and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months post randomisation.
Secondary outcomes included the following: lipid profile at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months; major cardiac events; change in body weight; all adverse events; and proportion of patients who revert to normal glucose metabolism on OGTT at 12 months. The discontinuation or reduction in dose of metformin due to adverse effects was recorded. Serious adverse events were defined as events that were fatal or life-threatening, that resulted in clinically significant or persistent disability, that required or prolonged a hospitalization, or that were judged by the investigator to represent a clinically significant harm to the participant that might require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the other events listed above [27].
No formal power calculation was undertaken as this was a feasibility study. Patients were analysed based on their original assignments. The feasibility of recruitment was reported as the percentage of patients screened with OGTT who were randomized to either treatment arm. The second primary outcome, tolerability of metformin, was reported as GSRS at 3 and 12 months, compared between the standard and intervention arms using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), and adjusted for GSRS at baseline. The third primary outcome, efficacy of metformin, was reported by the levels of HbA1c and morning blood glucose at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months post randomisation and compared between the two groups. This was done using an ANCOVA adjusted for baseline results.
For categorical variables, the comparisons between groups for significant differences were performed using a chi-square test. All statistical analyses were conducted using the statistical software SPSS (version 24.0). The statistical significance level was set at a probability level of < 0.05.
During the 24-month recruitment period, 183 adult patients received a kidney transplant at Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand, of which 105 were excluded largely due to pre-existing diabetes mellitus or unwillingness to consent to the study (Fig. 2). Seventy-eight patients had an OGTT, of which 44 (56.4%) had normal glucose levels, 10 (12.8%) had PTDM on OGTT and 24 (30.8%) had IGT. Of those with IGT, 19 were enrolled and randomized with 10 to the intervention arm and 9 to the control arm. Of the remaining 5 patients, 3 withdrew consent before randomisation and 2 were not randomized for clinical reasons, one for deranged liver function tests (LFTs) and the other for a complicated surgical course and concerns for developing acute kidney injury (AKI).
Flow chart of results of recruitment into Transdiab trial. IGT, impaired glucose tolerance; OGTT, oral glucose tolerance test; PTDM, Post transplantation Diabetes Mellitus; DM, Diabetes Mellitus
The intervention group had more females at 6 patients (60%) compared to the control group with 2 patients (22%). The duration between transplantation and enrolment was longer in the metformin group at 42.3 (standard deviation (SD) 19.8) days compared to 31.8 (SD 6.8) days in the control group, therefore, the steroids tapering dose was higher in the control group at 17.5 (SD 2.6) mg compared to 13.9 (SD 3.3) mg per day in the metformin group. No other significant differences between the 2 groups were identified as per Table 1.
Table 1 Baseline characteristics of participants. eGFR, estimated glomerular filtration rate; HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin; OGTT, oral glucose tolerance test, PCR, protein creatinine ratio; TG, triglycerides. NS is not significant when P-value is > 0.05.
The feasibility of recruitment was 24.4% with 19 patients recruited of the 78 who underwent OGTT. The tolerability of metformin on GI score was not different between the control and intervention groups at 3 months with scores of 1 (SD 1.6) and 2.3 (SD 2.5) nor at 12 months with scores of 2.3 (SD 4) and 2.9 (SD 1.9), respectively.
The efficacy of metformin on HbA1c and fasting glucose was not different between the 2 groups either at any of the testing points as outlined in Table 2, Figs. 3 and 4.
Table 2 Difference between GI scores, fasting glucose and HbA1c between the 2 groups. GI,Gastrointestinal. HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin. NS is not significant when P-value is > 0.05.
HbA1c levels during follow up in the intervention and control groups. HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin; NS is not significant when P-value is > 0.05
Fasting glucose levels during follow up in the intervention and control groups. NS is not significant when P-value is > 0.05
Both groups gained weight by the end of 12 months with the intervention group gaining 2.2 kg (SD 5.3) and the control group 6.7 kg (SD 11). However, the difference was not statistically significant (P-value 0.12).
There was no significant change in the cholesterol and triglycerides (TG) levels between the 2 groups at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months as per the Table 3. Cardiac events: none of the enrolled patients had cardiac events during the follow up.
Table 3 Difference between Lipid profile and weight change between the 2 groups. TG, triglycerides; NS is not significant when P-value is > 0.05
One of the 10 patients discontinued metformin 3 months after enrolment due to gastrointestinal symptoms in the form of indigestion and abdominal pain, which resolved after discontinuation. Another patient had a metallic taste in the mouth 6 months after enrolment, the dose of metformin was halved resulting in resolution of symptoms.
One patient in the control group was started on metformin 500 twice daily 6 months after randomisation by the caring physician due to elevated FBG and HbA1c at 7.9 mmol/l and 54 mmol/mol, respectively.
No patient had a serious adverse drug event and there were no episodes of lactic acidosis.
Patients reverting back to normal glucose metabolism on OGTT
60% of patients in the metformin arm (6 patients) and 22% in the control arm (2 patients) returned to a normal OGTT at 12 months, (p-value 0.2). One patient in each group developed PTDM and 2 had IGT on the 12-month OGTT in each group.
Three of the 19 patients had cellular AR (15.8%) during the 12 month follow up, 2 in the metformin group and 1 in the control group; no patients had antibody mediated rejection. All cases of rejection were managed successfully with 3 doses of 500 mg IV methylprednisolone and switching the CNI to tacrolimus if the patient was on cyclosporine.
This is the first randomised controlled trial of metformin in patients after kidney transplantation. The addition of the widely available metformin post transplantation will be simple and practical for high risk individuals if efficacy is confirmed. We found impaired glucose tolerance in over 30% of patients undergoing a glucose tolerance test in the first 3 months after kidney transplantation. Of these 79% were agreeable to participating in a trial of metformin. This indicates that enrolment of patients in studies examining treatments in this sub-group is feasible. Additionally, after excluding patients with diabetes pre-transplant or other exclusion criteria, 61.5% of potential candidates consented to participation in the study. Forty-nine patients refused to consent. This was largely due to reluctance of patients to take extra medications and the fear of side effects.
Most importantly, there were no significant safety concerns with metformin use early post transplantation in this small group of patients. There were no admissions with lactic acidosis and no significant difference in GI symptoms with the scoring system used. The available safety data for the use of metformin in renal transplant patients is limited. A previous retrospective review by Stephens and colleagues showed that metformin has been used by many renal transplant patients in the United States with no evidence of worse patient or allograft outcomes [28]. Also, a small retrospective study in 2008 reported the safety of metformin in renal transplant patients with PTDM and pre-existing diabetes mellitus [29].
Metformin has been available for many years and has many favourable effects which can be of particular benefit to transplant recipients, namely enhancing glucose metabolism, limiting unwanted weight gain, cardiovascular protection, improving metabolic profile, and anti-neoplastic activity [30]. However, a major deterrent for its use in renal transplant patients has been the safety concern, with physicians fearful of precipitating a dangerous lactic acidosis. Metformin is exclusively renally excreted with a clearance correlating approximately linearly with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) [31].
Renal transplant recipients commonly have abnormal eGFRs with frequent fluctuations in renal function, potentially leading to accumulation of metformin and increasing the risk of lactic acidosis. However, the attitude towards the use of metformin in patients with renal impairment has changed in recent years, as has the perceived risk of lactic acidosis in those patients. Recent large reviews have provided reassurance of the safety of metformin in patients with mild-moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rates, 30–60 mL/min per 1.73 m2), with no significant difference in the rates of lactic acidosis between those treated with or without metformin [32, 33].
Subsequently, more than one regulatory authority has changed its recommendations allowing for the use of metformin in eGFR less than 60 ml/min and as low as 30 ml/min [34,35,36].
In our study, the enrolment was 4 weeks or more after transplant, this allowed for the renal function to stabilize. We also excluded those with eGFRs <30mls/min, and educated all enrolled patients about metformin and its potential side effects with action plans when they have health concerns. This allowed for safe application of this intervention, which can be further applied in larger future RCTs.
The other primary outcome, efficacy of metformin, was not statistically different between the 2 groups at any of the designated time points. It would have been challenging to detect a difference with the small sample size. There were no differences in the secondary outcomes between the 2 groups either, and although there was a trend to less weight gain and more patients reverting to normal OGTT at 12 months in the metformin group, this was not statistically significant. Weight gain was noted in both groups, this is a common finding after renal transplantation which can be attributed to a few factors, mainly the use of immunosuppressive medications (such as corticosteroids), improvement in well-being and the relaxation of dietary restrictions [37, 38].
PTDM is associated with increased rates of cardiovascular disease, cardiovascular death and overall mortality [7, 39, 40]. PTDM is also associated with increased overall graft failure [20, 41].
Therefore, finding effective ways to manage PTDM or even better preventing it will help to address those risks. With the limited evidence on the use of Metformin in kidney transplant patients, it is only possible to use data from the general population to estimate the potential benefit of metformin on glucose metabolism in at risk individuals. The Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group found that metformin reduced the incidence of diabetes in patients with elevated fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance by 31% over an average follow up of 2.8 years compared to placebo, with a number needed to treat (NNT) of 13.9 to prevent one case over 3 years [22]. Also, a meta-analysis reported a similar benefit of metformin with a 40% reduction in the incidence of diabetes mellitus in individuals at high risk over 1.8 years with NNT of 17 [42].
The pathophysiology of the impairment in glucose metabolism appears to be different in PTDM to that in type 2 diabetes mellitus where metformin has been widely used [43, 44]. Therefore, the benefits of metformin on glucose metabolism can't be automatically extrapolated and need to be tested in the transplant recipients. The impairment in PTDM is related to a combination of β-cell dysfunction and insulin resistance [43,44,45]. This is related primarily to the diabetogenic effects of immunosuppressive medications, as CNIs, which are the cornerstone of contemporary transplant immunosuppressive therapy lead to beta-cell dysfunction and reduction of insulin secretion [46]. Other immunosuppressives lead to different effects, with steroids inducing peripheral insulin resistance and impairing glucose uptake, the exact diabetogenic mechanism of mTOR inhibitors is still uncertain [46].
The main limitation of our study is the small number of patients enrolled. This was expected for a pilot study carried out in a single transplant center, this limited the ability to confidently adjust for some known risk factors for PTDM like tacrolimus use, obesity and older age. Secondly, the dose of metformin was conservative in this trial at 1 g per day, as the maximal dose is 3 g per day. As our study is the first to use metformin prospectively in this group of patients, a conservative dose was chosen to encourage participation by patients and physicians and to gather initial safety data before advocating for higher doses in future studies. Using a higher dose of metformin is likely to result in more profound therapeutic effects, which can be entertained in future RCTs.
For future studies, intensive dietary regimens, changing immunosuppression when feasible and using pharmacological therapies are all interventions that could be implemented. Multicenter collaboration should be considered to ensure enrolling adequate number of patients where further stratification can be done, i.e. according to renal function, higher metformin doses, and adjusting for known risk factors. i.e. tacrolimus use. Using OGTT at 1 year as an end point for efficacy would be reasonable as it remains the gold standard for PTDM diagnosis [12], also because the overall rate of PTDM remains largely unchanged beyond 1 year post transplantation [47].
We have demonstrated reasonable feasibility in a trial using metformin in patients with impaired glucose tolerance after kidney transplantation. In this pilot study the use of metformin in renal transplant recipients with IGT appeared safe and had good tolerability with no serious adverse events, this should help planning future larger RCTs. The efficacy of the use of metformin can be further assessed in studies with adequate number of patients to address the pressing issues related to the prevention and management of PTDM.
ANZDATA Registry. The 39th annual ANZDATA report. Australia and New Zealand Dialysis and transplant Registry, Adelaide, Australia. 2017. Available at: http://www.anzdata.org.au/v1/report_2016.html. Accessed 13 Apr 2019.
Port FK, Wolfe RA, Mauger EA, et al. Comparison of survival probabilities for dialysis patients vs cadaveric renal transplant recipients. JAMA. 1993;270:1339–43.
McDonald SP, Russ GR. Survival of recipients of cadaveric kidney transplants compared with those receiving dialysis treatment in Australia and New Zealand, 1991–2001. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2002;17:2212–9.
Laupacis A, Keown P, Pus N, et al. A study of the quality of life and cost-utility of renal transplantation. Kidney Int. 1996;50:235–42.
Howard K, Salkeld G, White S, et al. The cost-effectiveness of increasing kidney transplantation and home-based dialysis. Nephrology. 2009;14:123–32.
van Walraven C, Manuel DG, Knoll G. Survival trends in ESRD patients compared with the general population in the United States. Am J Kidney Dis. 2014;63:491–9.
Hjelmesaeth J, Hartmann A, Leivestad T, et al. The impact of early diagnosed new-onset post-transplantation diabetes mellitus on survival and major cardiac events. Kidney Int. 2006;69:588–95.
Davidson, J.; Wilkinson, A.; Dantal, J, et al. New-onset diabetes after transplantation: 2003 international consensus guidelines. Transplantation; proceedings of an international expert panel meeting; Barcelona, Spain, 2003; 2003. p. SS3-SS24.
Sharif A, Hecking M, De Vries AP, et al. Proceedings from an international consensus meeting on posttransplantation diabetes mellitus: recommendations and future directions. Am J Transplant. 2014;14(9):1992–2000 This report summarizes the current consensus recommendations for the management of PTDM and future directions for research.
Montori VM, Basu A, Erwin PJ, et al. Posttransplantation diabetes: a systematic review of the literature. Diabetes Care. 2002;25:583–92.
Wilkinson A, Davidson J, Dotta F, et al. Guidelines for the treatment and management of new-onset diabetes after transplantation. Clin Transpl. 2005;19:291–29.
Han E, Kim MS, Kim YS, et al. Risk assessment and management of post-transplant diabetes mellitus. Metabolism. 2016;65(10):1559–69.
Caillard S, Eprinchard L, Perrin P, Braun L, Heibel F, Moreau F, Kessler L, Moulin B. Incidence and risk factors of glucose metabolism disorders in kidney transplant recipients: role of systematic screening by oral glucose tolerance test. Transplantation. 2011;91(7):757–64.
Rodrigo E, Fernández-Fresnedo G, Valero R, et al. New-onset diabetes after kidney transplantation: risk factors. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006;17:S291–5.
Hornum M, Jørgensen KA, Hansen JM, et al. New-onset diabetes mellitus after kidney transplantation in Denmark. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2010;5:709–16.
Hagen M, Hjelmesaeth J, Jenssen T, et al. A 6-year prospective study on new onset diabetes mellitus, insulin release and insulin sensitivity in renal transplant recipients. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2003;18(10):2154–9.
Kasiske BL, Snyder JJ, Gilbertson D, et al. Diabetes mellitus after kidney transplantation in the United States. Am J Transplant. 2003;3:178–85.
Valderhaug TG, Hjelmesæth J, Hartmann A, et al. The association of early post-transplant glucose levels with long-term mortality. Diabetologia. 2011;54(6):1341–9.
Eldridge S, Chan C, Campbell M, et al. CONSORT 2010 statement: extension to randomised pilot and feasibility trials. BMJ. 2016;355:i5239.
Alnasrallah B, Pilmore H, Manley P. Protocol for a pilot randomised controlled trial of metformin in pre-diabetes after kidney transplantation: the transplantation and diabetes (Transdiab) study. BMJ Open. 2017;7(8):e016813.
Kulich KR, Madisch A, Pacini F, et al. Reliability and validity of the gastrointestinal symptom rating scale (GSRS) and quality of life in reflux and dyspepsia (QOLRAD) questionnaire in dyspepsia: a six country study. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2008;6:12.
Food and Drug Administration. Code of Federal Regulations. Title 21CFR312.32a. 2013. http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfcfr/cfrsearch.cfm?fr=312.32. Accessed 13 Apr 2019.
Stephen J1, Anderson-Haag TL, Gustafson S, Snyder JJ, Kasiske BL, Israni AK. Metformin use in kidney transplant recipients in the United States: an observational study. Am J Nephrol. 2014;40(6):546–53.
B K, Joshi R, Helmuth A. Effectiveness and long-term safety of thiazolidinediones and metformin in renal transplant recipients. Endocr Pract. 2008;14(8):979–84.
Sharif A. Should metformin be our Antiglycemic agent of choice post-transplantation? Am J Transplant. 2011;11(7):1376–81.
Duong JK, Kumar SS, Kirkpatrick CM, et al. Population pharmacokinetics of metformin in healthy subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: simulation of doses according to renal function. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2013;52:373–84.
Salpeter SR, Greyber E, Pasternak GA, et al. Risk of fatal and nonfatal lactic acidosis with metformin use in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 201014;(4):CD002967.
Inzucchi SE, Lipska KJ, Mayo H, et al. Metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes and kidney disease: a systematic review. JAMA. 2014;312(24):2668–75.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). NICE guidelines: the Management of Type 2 diabetes. NICE website. http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg87/chapter/guidance. Accessed 13 Apr 2019.
Canadian Diabetes Association (CDA) Clinical Practice Guideline. Pharmacologic Management of Type 2 Diabetes. CDA website. http://guidelines.diabetes.ca/Browse/Chapter13. Accessed 13 Apr 2019.
European Medicines Agency. Metformin and metformin-containing medicines. http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/referrals/Metformin_and_metformin-containing_medicines/human_referral_000397.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac05805c516f. Accessed 13 Apr 2019.
Baum CL, Thielke K, Westin E, et al. Predictors of weight gain and cardiovascular risk in a cohort of racially diverse kidney transplant recipients. Nutrition. 2002;18:139–46.
Heaf J, Jakobsen U, Tvedegaard E, et al. Dietary habits and nutritional status of renal transplant patients. J Ren Nutr. 2004;14:20–5.
Revanur VK, Jardine AG, Kingsmore DB, et al. Influence of diabetes mellitus on patient and graft survival in recipients of kidney transplantation. Clin Transpl. 2001;15:89–94.
Cole EH, Johnston O, Rose CL, et al. Impact of acute rejection and new-onset diabetes on long-term transplant graft and patient survival. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2008;3:814–21.
Eide IA, Halden TAS, Hartmann A, et al. Associations between Posttransplantation diabetes mellitus and renal graft survival. Transplantation. 2017;101(6):1282–9.
Salpeter SR, Buckley NS, Kahn JA, et al. Meta-analysis: metformin treatment in persons at risk for diabetes mellitus. Am J Med. 2008;121(2):149.
Nam JH, Mun JI, Kim SI, et al. Beta-cell dysfunction rather than insulin resistance is the main contributing factor for the development of postrenal transplantation diabetes mellitus. Transplantation. 2001;71:1417–23.
Hecking M, Kainz A, Werzowa J, et al. Glucose metabolism after renal transplantation. Diabetes Care. 2013;36:2763–71.
Zelle DM, Corpeleijn E, Deinum J, et al. Pancreatic beta-cell dysfunction and risk of new-onset diabetes after kidney transplantation. Diabetes Care. 2013;36:1926–32.
Pimentel a AL, Bauer b AC, Camargo JL. Renal posttransplantation diabetes mellitus: an overview. Clin Chim Acta. 2015;450:327–32.
Guthoff M, Wagner R, Weichbrodt K, et al. Dynamics of glucose metabolism after kidney transplantation. Kidney Blood Press Res. 2017;42(3):598–607.
The study received a grant from A+ charitable trust in Auckland, New Zealand. The grant covered the salary of the research fellow and also the stationary costs (grant number 6218). The funder had no role in designing or performing the study.
Data Availability: The data set supporting these findings is not publicly available to protect privacy and confidentiality. Data requests from any interested researcher may be sent to the corresponding author BA: polbeas@yahoo.com
Department of Nephrology, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, 1023, New Zealand
Basil Alnasrallah, Tze Liang Goh, Lai Wan Chan, Paul Manley & Helen Pilmore
Basil Alnasrallah
BA participated in the performance of research, data analysis, the writing of the paper and researched data; PM participated in research design and the writing of the paper; TG and LC participated in the performance of the research and reviewed/edited the manuscript; HP participated in research design, the performance of research, and the writing of the paper. All authors have read and approved the final version of the manuscript.
Correspondence to Basil Alnasrallah.
Ethical approval has been obtained through the Northern B Health and Disability Ethics Committee of the Ministry of Health in New Zealand. Ethics approval number is 14/ STH/129. Written informed consent has been obtained from all individuals participating in the study.
Alnasrallah, B., Goh, T.L., Chan, L.W. et al. Transplantation and diabetes (Transdiab): a pilot randomised controlled trial of metformin in impaired glucose tolerance after kidney transplantation. BMC Nephrol 20, 147 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12882-019-1321-2
cliexa-Options, a suite of behavioral health apps for primary care and family medicine physicians which will help determine the risk level for sexual activity, substance use and other issues.
The Illinois Turfgrass Foundation was founded on December 22, 1959 under the "General Not For Profit Corporation Act" in the State of Illinois. The first Board Of Director's were:
"To establish and maintain a turfgrass research and educational fund to be used to support turfgrass research and educational programs of the University of Illinois. Also, to promote and advance the interests of its members as growers of turfgrasses, the turfgrass industry, and associated industries in the improvement of turfgrasses consistent with the best interests of the public."
Much of this purpose still holds true today, however the Illinois Turfgrass Foundation has evolved to support turfgrass research and education programs throughout Illinois including Southern Illinois University and the Chicago District Golf Association. As the largest turf principal organization in Illinois, ITF has contributed over 1.5 million dollars to projects and grants within the state. Through enthusiastic support of its member, ITF has and continues to accomplish a number of impressive achievements:
Funding partner with Chicago District Golf Association (CDGA) in the establishment of the Sunshine Course at the Midwest Golf House.
Ongoing funding of multiple research projects at the University of Illinois, Southern Illinois University and the CDGA's Sunshine Course.
Establishment of the Illinois Turfgrass Endowment, a fund to ensure turf research needs are met in the future.
Sole sponsorship of the Illinois Professional Turf Conference (IPTC), a trade show and conference dedicated to meeting the educational needs of the ITF membership.
The Tod and Norma Hopphan Fellowship, a fellowship that funds the work of a graduate student per year at the University of Illinois in turfgrass science.
Organizing area golf outings that provide fellowship and free exchange of ideas at Illinois top rated golf courses and clubs.
Sponsors University Field Day where latest research findings and demonstrations are conducted and seen in person.
The Illinois Turfgrass Foundation remains a not-for-profit professional trade association 501(c)5 tax designation.
Nature's Way Blood Sugar | HealthPost NZ
https://www.healthpost.co.nz/natures-way-blood-sugar-nwbs.html Nature's Way
SKU# NWBS
- To help maintain healthy blood sugar levels. -
Nature's Way Blood Sugar is a blend of current scientific research and traditional herbal medicine. Contains gymnema standardised extract, the Ayurvedic sugar destroyer, GTF chromium - an important cofactor as well as other herbs and minerals used in support of healthy blood sugar levels.
Usage: To help bring balance to high or fluctuating blood sugar levels.
Cinnamon bark 133mg
Fenugreek extract 70mg
Nopal Opuntia spp. 50mg
Bitter melon extract 50mg
Gymnema Sylvestre extract 75% Gymnemic Acids 33mg
Bilberry leaf 33mg
Vitamin A (betacarotene) 500IU
You're reviewing: Blood Sugar
blood sugar control Review by Anna
Hi my diabetes has been steadily getting worse for 6 years I discovered this product after being told injections of meds was the next stop. 6 month ago I was 58 diabetic scale 3 months later 55 now at 6 months later at 51. I could not believe it with meds and these pills no needles and a happy doctor and a happy diabetic.
Blood sugar level stable Review by Michael
My blood sugar level has stabilised. But since I took this and prescribed medication at same time, I guess both helped
KC Integrative Health | Naturopathic Medicine |Autoimmune Diseases — Kansas City Integrative Health | Functional & Holistic Health Specialists. Located in the Heart of Overland Park
Naturopathic Rheumatology & Autoimmune Disease Treatment
"Autoimmune disease" refers to a class of illnesses that can involve almost any organ system. In autoimmune diseases, the immune system becomes misdirected and attacks the organs it was designed to protect. Often, the first symptoms are lingering and general, including fatigue, low-grade fever, difficulty concentrating, or unexplained weight loss or gain. These vague symptoms make autoimmune diseases difficult to diagnose at first.
Autoimmune diseases are more common in women, but they can affect anyone in any age group. Often, the cause or trigger for an autoimmune condition's onset is unknown. Conventional treatment generally involves reducing the immune system response throughout the body.
Alternative treatments are available, aimed to decrease inflammation and modulate the overactive immune system. If you suffer from any of the following autoimmune diseases, schedule a complimentary 15 minute consult to see how you can benefit.
Thyroid disease (including Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease)
Raynaud's Syndrome & Raynaud's Disease
Requested Day or Time of Consultation (Required) *
Preferred Method of Contact (Required) *
Please do not use our email address or contact forms to send specific or personal medical information (protected health information) and/or ask for specific medical advice - electronic communications, including email and contact forms are not secure and could result in a breach of privacy and/or confidentiality. Use of email or any other form of electronic or digital communication or any of our contact forms does not constitute forming a doctor/patient relationship.
Disruption of the iliocolic artery after blunt trauma | Emergency Medicine Journal
Disruption of the iliocolic artery after blunt trauma
Selly Oak Hospital, Brimingham, UK
Correspondence to:
Dr C Dewar, Fife Acute Hospitals Trust, Queen Margaret Hospital, Whitefield Road, Dumfermline, Fife KY12 0SU, UK;
suzanne{at}brannan43.fsnet.co.uk
Injury to the superior mesenteric artery and branches is an uncommon event, which is typically associated with penetrating injury and high mortality. A case is presented of rupture of a branch of the superior mesenteric artery (iliocolic artery) after blunt trauma. The case illustrates the more occult presentation and better overall prognosis associated with this type of injury as compared with injury to the proximal superior mesenteric artery. In addition this case highlights the importance of vigilance in patients who deteriorate after initial resuscitation.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/emj.19.6.589
Abdominal vascular injury and specifically injury to the visceral arteries occurs uncommonly after blunt trauma.1 Injury to the superior mesenteric artery and resultant haemorrhage is associated with high mortality rates.2,3 This is a report of disruption to the iliocolic artery, a branch of the superior mesenteric artery, after blunt trauma.
A 29 year old man was the restrained driver of a car, which collided at approximately 60 mph with a stationary car. He was trapped in the car for one hour. The patient was alert and orientated; he had not exhibited any signs or symptoms consistent with concussion. He was transported from the accident scene by helicopter. On arrival his blood pressure was 100/70 mm Hg with a pulse of 110, within 20 minutes the systolic blood pressure had decreased to 70 mm Hg. He initially complained of right sided abdominal and leg pain. Examination revealed right sided abdominal tenderness that was maximal in the right iliac fossa with associated guarding and rebound.
He was subsequently resuscitated over the following two hours with three units of O negative blood and three litres of crystalloid solution. A standard trauma series of radiographs revealed a fracture of the right hemi-pelvis, through the iliac wing and down towards the sciatic notch, together with fractures of all four pubic rami. In addition radiographs of the right femur showed an intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric fracture.
After initial resuscitation the patient's blood pressure stabilised at between 110 mm Hg and 120 mm Hg systolic with a pulse of between 80 and 100. Abdominal ultrasound showed a small amount of free fluid around the liver but no definite liver laceration. At this stage the patient was diagnosed as having had a retroperitoneal bleed secondary to the above mentioned pelvic fractures.
After two hours, in which the patient remained stable, his blood pressure decreased 80/60 mm Hg. In view of this a laparotomy was performed, a ruptured iliocolic artery and associated tears to the mesentery of the terminal ileum were found. There was an estimated three litres of intraperitoneal blood. The injured artery was resected and repaired with an end to end anastomosis using interrupted sutures.
The patient's postoperative course was unremarkable and the patient was discharged 24 days after injury.
Blunt abdominal trauma rarely causes isolated vascular injuries. It is estimated that the superior mesenteric artery branch is affected in 9% of cases of abdominal vascular trauma.1
The small studies available indicate that the mortality rate for injury to the superior mesenteric artery is between 33% and 68%.2,3 Blunt trauma is the mechanism of injury in 23% of cases.4 With blunt trauma, the abdominal viscera are forced into the pelvis and subsequently pull on their vascular attachment. This combined with unequal deceleration can result in rupture of the mesenteric vessels.5 The injury observed in this patient was probably attributable to the abrupt deceleration resulting from impact with a stationary vehicle at 60 mph and the restraining action of the seat belt.
In 1972 Fullen et al,6 subdivided the superior mesenteric artery circulation into four zones (fig 1).
Subdivision of superior mesenteric artery into Fullen's zones.
Mortality rates vary from 100% in zone 1 to 25% in zone 3 and 4, however there were no isolated cases of zone 4 trauma.4 Patients sustaining proximal superior mesenteric artery injuries usually present with a systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg (68%–93%).2,3
This case is consistent with the assumption that zone 4 injuries may have a more occult presentation and carry a better overall prognosis. The occult presentation illustrates the difficulties inherent in making an accurate clinical diagnosis when haemorrhage is from a small intra-abdominal artery. This was further compounded by the erroneous assumption that the cause of the patient's initial hypotension was a retroperitoneal bleed secondary to pelvic fractures. It is possible that further investigation when the patient was haemodynamically stable might have resulted in earlier diagnosis of the underlying problem. Computed tomography has been shown to be both sensitive and specific in the diagnosis of intra-abdominal injury in the blunt trauma patient.7 Successful treatment of patients with injury to the visceral arteries continues to include volume replacement and rapid exposure of injuries.
C Dewar searched the literature and wrote the paper. C.Dewar is the guarantor for the paper. D Gorman reviewed and advised on the paper.
Jackson MR, Olson DW, Beckett WC, et al. Abdominal vascular trauma: a review of 106 injuries. Am Surg1992;58:622–6.
Lucas AE, Richardson JD, Flint LM, et al. Traumatic injury of the proximal superior mesenteric artery. Ann Surg1981;193:30–4.
Accola KD, Feliciano DV, Mattox KL, et al. Management of injuries to the superior mesenteric artery. J Trauma1986;26:313–19.
Asensio JA, Berne JD, Chahwan S, et al. Traumatic injury to the superior mesenteric artery. Am J Surg1999;178:235–9.
Lassonde J, Laurendeau F. Blunt injury of the abdominal aorta. Ann Surg1981;194:745–8.
Fullen WD, Hunt J, Altenmeier WA, et al. The clinical spectrum of penetrating injury to the superior mesenteric arterial circulation. J Trauma1972;12:656–64.
Richards JR, Derlet RW. Computed tomography for blunt abdominal trauma in the ED: a prospective study. Am J Emerg Med1998;16:338–42.
