Schizoaffective disorder (SZA, SZD or SAD) is a mental disorder characterized by abnormal thought processes and an unstable mood.[5][6] The diagnosis is made when the person has symptoms of both schizophrenia (usually psychosis) and a mood disorder—either bipolar disorder or depression.[5][6] The main criterion for the schizoaffective disorder diagnosis is the presence of psychotic symptoms for at least two weeks without any mood symptoms present.[6] Schizoaffective disorder can often be misdiagnosed[6] when the correct diagnosis may be psychotic depression, psychotic bipolar disorder, schizophreniform disorder, or schizophrenia. It is imperative for providers to accurately diagnose patients, as treatment and prognosis differs greatly for each of these diagnoses.[6][7]
Psychotic depression, bipolar disorder with psychotic features, schizophreniform disorder, schizophrenia
There are two types of schizoaffective disorder: the bipolar type, which is distinguished by symptoms of mania, hypomania, or mixed episode; and the depressive type, which is distinguished by symptoms of depression only.[5][6] Common symptoms of the disorder include hallucinations, delusions, and disorganized speech and thinking.[8] Auditory hallucinations, or "hearing voices", are most common.[9] The onset of symptoms usually begins in young adulthood.
The mainstay of current treatment is antipsychotic medication combined with mood stabilizer medication or antidepressant medication, or both. There is growing concern by some researchers that antidepressants may increase psychosis, mania, and long-term mood episode cycling in the disorder.[citation needed] When there is risk to self or others, usually early in treatment, hospitalization may be necessary.[10] Psychiatric rehabilitation, psychotherapy, and vocational rehabilitation are very important for recovery of higher psychosocial function. As a group, people with schizoaffective disorder that were diagnosed using DSM-IV and ICD-10 criteria (which have since been updated) have a better outcome,[5][6] but have variable individual psychosocial functional outcomes compared to people with mood disorders, from worse to the same.[6][11][non-primary source needed] Outcomes for people with DSM-5 diagnosed schizoaffective disorder depend on data from prospective cohort studies, which have not been completed yet.[6] The DSM-5 diagnosis was updated because DSM-IV criteria resulted in overuse of the diagnosis;[10] that is, DSM-IV criteria led to many patients being misdiagnosed with the disorder. DSM-IV prevalence estimates were less than one percent of the population, in the range of 0.5–0.8 percent;[12] newer DSM-5 prevalence estimates are not yet available.
Schizoaffective disorder is defined by mood disorder-free psychosis in the context of a long-term psychotic and mood disorder.[6] Psychosis must meet criterion A for schizophrenia which may include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized thinking and speech or behavior and negative symptoms.[6] Both delusions and hallucinations are classic symptoms of psychosis.[13] Delusions are false beliefs which are strongly held despite evidence to the contrary.[13] Beliefs should not be considered delusional if they are in keeping with cultural beliefs. Delusional beliefs may or may not reflect mood symptoms (for example, someone experiencing depression may or may not experience delusions of guilt). Hallucinations are disturbances in perception involving any of the five senses, although auditory hallucinations (or "hearing voices") are the most common. Negative symptoms include alogia (poverty of speech), blunted affect (reduced intensity of outward emotional expression), avolition (lack of motivation), and anhedonia (inability to experience pleasure).[13] Negative symptoms can be more lasting and more debilitating than positive symptoms of psychosis.
Mood symptoms are of mania, hypomania, mixed episode, or depression, and tend to be episodic rather than continuous. A mixed episode represents a combination of symptoms of mania and depression at the same time. Symptoms of mania include elevated or irritable mood, grandiosity (inflated self-esteem), agitation, risk-taking behavior, decreased need for sleep, poor concentration, rapid speech, and racing thoughts.[13] Symptoms of depression include low mood, apathy, changes in appetite or weight, disturbances in sleep, changes in motor activity, fatigue, guilt or feelings of worthlessness, and suicidal thinking.
A combination of genetic and environmental factors are believed to play a role in the development of schizoaffective disorder.[14][15]
Viewed broadly then, biological and environmental factors interact with a person's genes in ways which may increase or decrease the risk for developing schizoaffective disorder; exactly how this happens (the biological mechanism) is not yet known. Schizophrenia spectrum disorders, of which schizoaffective disorder is a part, have been increasingly linked to advanced paternal age at the time of conception, a known cause of genetic mutations.[16] The physiology of people diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder appears to be similar, but not identical, to that of those diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder; however, human neurophysiological function in normal brain and mental disorder syndromes is not fully understood.[9]
Substance use disorderEdit
A clear causal connection between substance use and psychotic spectrum disorders, including schizoaffective disorder, has been difficult to prove. In the specific case of cannabis (marijuana), however, evidence supports a link between earlier onset of psychotic illness and cannabis use.[17] The more often cannabis is used, particularly in early adolescence, the more likely a person is to develop a psychotic illness,[18][19][20] with frequent use being correlated with double the risk of psychosis and schizoaffective disorder.[21] A 2009 Yale review stated that in individuals with an established psychotic disorder, cannabinoids can exacerbate symptoms, trigger relapse, and have negative consequences on the course of the illness.[22] While cannabis use is accepted as a contributory cause of schizoaffective disorder by many,[23] it remains controversial,[24][25] since not all young people who use cannabis later develop psychosis, but those who do use cannabis have an increased odds ratio of about 3.[26] Certain drugs can imitate symptoms of schizophrenia (which we know has similar symptoms to schizoaffective disorder). This is important to note when including that substance-induced psychosis should be ruled out when diagnosing patients so that patients are not misdiagnosed.[6]
Psychosis as a symptom of a psychiatric disorder is first and foremost a diagnosis of exclusion.[27] So a new-onset episode of psychosis cannot be considered to be a symptom of a psychiatric disorder until other relevant and known medical causes of psychosis are excluded, or ruled out.[27] Many clinicians improperly perform, or entirely miss this step, introducing avoidable diagnostic error and misdiagnosis.[27]
Delirium should be ruled out, which can be distinguished by visual hallucinations, acute onset and fluctuating level of consciousness, indicating other underlying factors which includes medical illnesses.[27] Excluding medical illnesses associated with psychosis is performed by using blood tests to measure:
Because psychosis may be precipitated or exacerbated by common classes of psychiatric medications, such as antidepressants,[28][29][30][31][32] ADHD stimulant medications,[33][34][35] and sleep medications,[36][37] prescribed medication-induced psychosis should be ruled out, particularly for first-episode psychosis.[27] This is an essential step to reduce diagnostic error and to evaluate potential medication sources of further patient harm.[27] Regarding prescribed medication sources of patient harm, Yale School of Medicine Professor of Psychiatry Malcolm B. Bowers, Jr, MD wrote:[38][self-published source]
It is important to be understood here. I want to call attention to the fact that some persons with a family history of even the subtler forms of bipolar disorder or psychosis are more vulnerable than others to the mania- or psychosis-inducing potential of antidepressants, stimulants and sleeping medications. While I'm not making a blanket statement against these medications, I am urging caution in their use. I believe [clinicians] should ask patients and their families whether there is a family history of bipolar disorder or psychosis before prescribing these medications. Most patients and their families don't know the answer when they are first asked, so time should be allowed for the patient to ask family or relatives, between the session when asked by [the clinician] and a follow-up session. This may increase the wait for a medication slightly, but because some patients are vulnerable, this is a necessary step for [the clinician] to take. I believe that psychiatry as a field has not emphasized this point sufficiently. As a result, some patients have been harmed by the very treatments that were supposed to help them; or to the disgrace of psychiatry, harmed and then misdiagnosed.[28][29][30][31][34][35][36][37]
Some dietary supplements may also induce psychosis or mania, but cannot be ruled out with laboratory tests. So a psychotic person's family, partner, or friends should be asked whether he or she is currently taking any dietary supplements.[39]
Common mistakes made when diagnosing psychotic patients include:[27]
Not screening for dissociative disorders. Dissociative identity disorder and psychotic symptoms in schizoaffective disorder have considerable overlap, yet a different overall treatment approach.[40]
DSM-5 requires two episodes of psychosis (whereas DSM-IV needed only one) to qualify for the schizoaffective disorder diagnosis.[6] As such, it is no longer an "episode diagnosis."[6] The new schizoaffective framework looks at the time from "the [first episode of] psychosis up to the current episode [of psychosis], rather than only defining a single episode with [co-occurring] psychotic and mood syndromes."[6] Specifically, one of the episodes of psychosis must last a minimum of two weeks without mood disorder symptoms, but the person may be mildly to moderately depressed while psychotic.[6] The other period of psychosis "requires the overlap of mood [disorder] symptoms with psychotic symptoms to be conspicuous" and last for a greater portion of the disorder.[41]
If the schizoaffective diagnosis is used less often, other diagnoses (like psychotic mood disorders and schizophrenia) are likely to be used more often; but this is hypothetical until real-world data arrive. Validity problems with the diagnosis remain and await further work in the fields of psychiatric genetics, neuroimaging, and cognitive science that includes the overlapping fields of cognitive, affective, and social neuroscience, which may change the way schizoaffective disorder is conceptualized and defined in future versions of the DSM and ICD.[6][42]
Problems with DSM-IV schizoaffective disorderEdit
The American Psychiatric Association's DSM-IV criteria for schizoaffective disorder persisted for 19 years (1994–2013). Clinicians adequately trained in diagnosis used the schizoaffective diagnosis too often,[6] largely because the criteria were poorly defined, ambiguous, and hard to use (or poorly operationalized).[6][43] Poorly trained clinicians used the diagnosis without making necessary exclusions of common causes of psychosis, including some prescribed psychiatric medications.[6] Specialty books written by experts on schizoaffective disorder have existed for over eight years before DSM-5 describing the overuse of the diagnosis.[44][45][46][47]
In April 2009, Carpenter and the DSM-5 schizoaffective disorder workgroup reported that they were "developing new criteria for schizoaffective disorder to improve reliability and face validity," and were "determining whether the dimensional assessment of mood [would] justify a recommendation to drop schizoaffective disorder as a diagnostic category."[12] Speaking to an audience at the May 2009 annual conference of the American Psychiatric Association, Carpenter said:[12]
But DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder carries an unnecessarily worse prognosis than a "mood disorder with psychotic features" diagnosis,[6] because long-term data revealed that a significant proportion of DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder patients had 15-year outcomes indistinguishable from patients with mood disorders with or without psychotic features,[6][11] even though the clinical picture at the time of first diagnosis looked different from both schizophrenia and mood disorders.[6][11]
DSM-5 research directionsEdit
A core concept in modern psychiatry since DSM-III was released in 1980, is the categorical separation of mood disorders from schizophrenia, known as the Kraepelinian dichotomy. Emil Kraepelin introduced the idea that schizophrenia was separate from mood disorders after observing patients with symptoms of psychosis and mood disorder, over a century ago, in 1898. This was a time before genetics were known and before any treatments existed for mental illness.[48] The Kraepelinian dichotomy was not used for DSM-I and DSM-II because both manuals were influenced by the dominant psychodynamic psychiatry of the time,[49] but the designers of DSM-III wanted to use more scientific and biological definitions.[49] Consequently, they looked to psychiatry's history and decided to use the Kraepelinian dichotomy as a foundation for the classification system.
The Kraepelinian dichotomy continues to be used in DSM-5 despite having been challenged by data from modern psychiatric genetics for over eight years,[50] and there is now evidence of a significant overlap in the genetics of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.[48] According to this genetic evidence, the Kraepelinian categorical separation of mood disorders from schizophrenia at the foundation of the current classification and diagnostic system is a mistaken false dichotomy.[48][51]
The dichotomy at the foundation of the current system forms the basis for a convoluted schizoaffective disorder definition in DSM-IV that resulted in excessive misdiagnosis.[6] Real life schizoaffective disorder patients have significant and enduring symptoms that bridge what are incorrectly assumed to be categorically separate disorders, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.[52] People with psychotic depression, bipolar disorder with a history of psychosis, and schizophrenia with mood symptoms also have symptoms that bridge psychosis and mood disorders.[48][51] The categorical diagnostic manuals do not reflect reality in their separation of psychosis (via the schizophrenia diagnosis) from mood disorder, nor do they currently emphasize the actual overlap found in real-life patients.[48][51] Thus, they are likely to continue to introduce either-or conceptual and diagnostic error, by way of confirmation bias into clinicians' mindsets, hindering accurate assessment and treatment.[48][51]
The new definition continues the lack of parsimony of the old definition.[6][52] Simpler, clearer, and more usable definitions of the diagnosis were supported by certain members of the DSM-5 workgroup (see next paragraph); these were debated but deemed premature, because more "research [is] needed to establish a new classification system of equal or greater validity"[52] to the existing system.[6][52] Because of DSM-5's continuing problematic categorical foundation, schizoaffective disorder's conceptual and diagnostic validity remains doubtful.[48][51] After enough research is completed and data exists, future diagnostic advances will need to either eliminate and replace, or soften and bridge, the hard categorical separation of mood disorders from schizophrenia; most likely using a spectrum or dimensional approach to diagnosis.[6][51]
The field of psychiatry has begun to question its assumptions and analyze its data in order to merge closer with evidence-based medicine.[51] The removal of the "episode diagnosis", and the addition of two episodes of psychosis, as qualifications for the DSM-5 schizoaffective diagnosis, may improve the diagnosis' consistency over DSM-IV for research purposes, where diagnostic criteria are by necessity followed exactingly.[41] But the new definition remains long, unwieldy, and perhaps still not very useful for community clinicians—with two psychoses, one for two weeks minimum and without mood disorder (but the person can be mildly or moderately depressed) and the other with significant mood disorder and psychosis lasting for most of the time, and with lasting mood symptoms for most of the residual portion of the illness.[6][41] Community clinicians used the previous definition "for about a third of cases with non-affective psychotic disorders."[6] Non-affective psychotic disorders are, by definition, not schizoaffective disorder. For clinicians to make such sizeable errors of misdiagnosis may imply systemic problems with the schizoaffective disorder diagnosis itself. Already, at least one expert believes the new schizoaffective definition has not gone far enough to solve the previous definition's problems.[41]
From a scientific standpoint, modern clinical psychiatry is still a very young, underdeveloped medical specialty because its target organ, the human brain, is not yet well understood. The human brain's neural circuits, for example, are just beginning to be mapped by modern neuroscience in the Human Connectome Project and CLARITY. Clinical psychiatry, furthermore, has begun to understand and acknowledge its current limitations—but further steps by the field are required to significantly reduce misdiagnosis and patient harm; this is crucial both for responsible patient care and to retain public trust. Looking forward, a paradigm shift is needed in psychiatric research to address unanswered questions about schizoaffective disorder. The dimensional Research Domain Criteria project currently being developed by the U.S. National Institutes of Mental Health, may be the specific problem solving framework psychiatry needs to develop a more scientifically mature understanding of schizoaffective disorder as well as all other mental disorders.[53]
The primary treatment of schizoaffective disorder is medication, with improved outcomes using combined long-term psychological and social supports.[14] Hospitalization may occur for severe episodes either voluntarily or (if mental health legislation allows it) involuntarily. Long-term hospitalization is uncommon since deinstitutionalization started in the 1950s, although it still occurs.[10] Community support services including drop-in centers, visits by members of a community mental health team, supported employment[54] and support groups are common. Evidence indicates that regular exercise has a positive effect on the physical and mental health of those with schizoaffective disorder.[55]
Skillfully delivered psychosocial treatments are perhaps the most important component of pushing for and encouraging improved overall functioning in schizoaffective disorder. Supportive psychotherapy and cognitive behavioral therapy are both helpful.[56] Intensive case management (ICM) has been shown to reduce hospitalizations, improve adherence to treatment, and improve social functioning.[57] With ICM, clients are assigned a case manager responsible for coordination of care and assisting clients to access supports to address needs in multiple areas related to well-being, including housing.
High quality psychosocial or psychiatric rehabilitation is very important for recovery from schizoaffective disorder. Psychiatric or psychosocial rehabilitation focuses on solving community integration problems such as obtaining and keeping housing and increasing involvement in positive social groups. It also focuses on improving and increasing activities of daily living; increasing daily healthy habits (such as normalizing sleep-wake cycles; increasing early morning natural light exposure; increasing moderate exercise [such as 20–30 minutes of moderate to brisk early morning to pre-afternoon walking daily, in order to help normalize circadian rhythms]; helping individuals understand the specific benefits of healthy food choices; increasing stress-reduction activities such as yoga, tai chi, or meditation); and decreasing unhealthy behaviors (such as substance use and smoking); thereby significantly improving quality of life. High quality psychiatric rehabilitation may also focus on vocational rehabilitation including preparing the client for volunteer, part-time paid work, returning to school for further education, job skills training for full-time flexible or supported employment, and other client self-improvement efforts. Core principles of effective psychiatric rehabilitation must include providing hope when the client lacks it, respect for the client wherever they are in the recovery process, empowering the client, teaching the client wellness planning, and emphasizing the importance for the client to develop social support networks.[58] A long-term goal of psychiatric and vocational rehabilitation is that the client learn and actively engage in active stress management while in education or employment, while receiving treatment.
Antipsychotic medication is usually required both for acute treatment and the prevention of relapse.[13][59] There is no single antipsychotic of choice in treating schizoaffective disorder, but atypical antipsychotics should be considered because they have mood-stabilizing activity.[13][56] Paliperidone is an antipsychotic with FDA approval for the treatment of schizoaffective disorder.[60] Antipsychotics should be used at the minimum dose necessary to control symptoms.[56] Potential side effects include extrapyramidal symptoms, including tremor, muscle stiffness, and restlessness or akathisia.[61] Atypical antipsychotics carry a risk of metabolic syndrome, including weight gain, increased blood sugar, and increased blood cholesterol, so regular monitoring of weight and blood work should be carried out.[61] Some atypical antipsychotics, such as ziprasidone and aripiprazole, are associated with less risk than others, such as olanzapine.[56][61] Medication choice is based on how effectively it reduces symptoms, how few side effects it causes, and cost.
In people with treatment-refractory psychosis, a clozapine trial should be considered.[13] Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic that is recognized as being particularly effective when other antipsychotic agents have failed.[61] Clozapine should also be considered in people with chronic and persistent suicidal thinking and behaviour, as it has been shown to reduce the risk of suicide in patients with schizoaffective disorder and a history of suicidality.[59] Between 0.5 and 2% of patients taking clozapine may develop a life-threatening complication called agranulocytosis, which is a significant drop in a type of white blood cell.[62] Because of this risk, people taking clozapine must have regular monitoring of blood cell counts.[62]
The management of the bipolar type of schizoaffective disorder is similar to the treatment of bipolar disorder, with the goal of preventing mood episodes and cycling.[61] Lithium or anticonvulsant mood stabilizers such as valproic acid, carbamazepine, and lamotrigine are prescribed in combination with an antipsychotic.[56]
For depression, if an antidepressant is prescribed, extra attentiveness must be given by the prescribing clinician due its risk for long-term mood cycle acceleration (that is, inducing more frequent episodes of depression per unit of time) and prescribed medication-induced psychosis or mania.[28][29][30][31] For individuals who show emerging psychosis, mania, mixed episode symptoms, or mood cycle acceleration, switching to an antipsychotic plus lithium or lamotrigine is preferable to antidepressants.
For individuals who experience anxiety, anti-anxiety medications can be used, usually on a short-term basis.[56] Benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, clonazepam and diazepam, are types of anti-anxiety medications. Care must be taken when prescribing benzodiazepines due to the risk of the person developing tolerance and dependence.[61]
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) may be considered for patients with schizoaffective disorder experiencing severe depression or severe psychotic symptoms that have not responded to treatment with antipsychotics.[59]
Schizoaffective disorder is estimated to occur in 0.5 to 0.8 percent of people at some point in their life.[63] 30% of cases occur between the ages of 25 and 35.[64] It is more common in women than men; however, this is because of the high concentration of women in the depressive subcategory, whereas the bipolar subtype has a more or less even gender distribution.[citation needed]
The term schizoaffective psychosis was introduced by the American psychiatrist Jacob Kasanin in 1933[65] to describe an episodic psychotic illness with predominant affective symptoms, that was thought at the time to be a good-prognosis schizophrenia.[66] Kasanin's concept of the illness was influenced by the psychoanalytic teachings of Adolf Meyer and Kasanin postulated that schizoaffective psychosis was caused by "emotional conflicts" of a "mainly sexual nature" and that psychoanalysis "would help prevent the recurrence of such attacks."[67] He based his description on a case study of nine individuals.[67]
Other psychiatrists, before and after Kasanin, have made scientific observations of schizoaffective disorder based on assumptions of a biological and genetic cause of the illness. In 1863, German psychiatrist Karl Kahlbaum (1828–1899) described schizoaffective disorders as a separate group in his vesania typica circularis.[68] Kahlbaum distinguished between cross-sectional and longitudinal observations. (Cross-sectional refers to observation of a single, specific episode of the illness, for example, one episode of psychotic depression; while longitudinal refers to long-term observation of many distinct episodes [similar or different] often occurring over the span of years.) In 1920, psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin (1856–1926), the founder of contemporary scientific psychiatry, observed a "great number" of cases that had characteristics of both groups of psychoses that he originally posited were two distinct and separate illnesses, dementia praecox (now called schizophrenia) and manic depressive insanity (now called bipolar disorders [plural since there are more than one type of bipolar disorder] and recurrent depression).[67]
Kraepelin acknowledged that "there are many overlaps in this area," that is, the area between schizophrenia and mood disorders.[69] In 1959, psychiatrist Kurt Schneider (1887–1967) began to further refine conceptualizations of the different forms that schizoaffective disorders can take since he observed "concurrent and sequential types".[67] (The concurrent type of illness he referred to is a longitudinal course of illness with episodes of mood disorder and psychosis occurring predominantly at the same time [now called psychotic mood disorders or affective psychosis]; while his sequential type refers to a longitudinal course predominantly marked by alternating mood and psychotic episodes.)[68] Schneider described schizoaffective disorders as "cases in-between" the traditional Kraepelinian dichotomy of schizophrenia and mood disorders.[68]
The historical clinical observation that schizoaffective disorder is an overlap of schizophrenia and mood disorders is explained by genes for both illnesses being present in individuals with schizoaffective disorder; specifically, recent research shows that schizophrenia and mood disorders share common genes and polygenic variations.[70][71][72][73]
Schizoaffective disorder was included as a subtype of schizophrenia in DSM-I and DSM-II, though research showed a schizophrenic cluster of symptoms in individuals with a family history of mood disorders whose illness course, other symptoms and treatment outcome were otherwise more akin to bipolar disorder than to schizophrenia. DSM-III placed schizoaffective disorder in "Psychotic Disorders Not Otherwise Specified" before being formally recognized in DSM-III-R.[74] DSM-III-R included its own diagnostic criteria as well as the subtypes, bipolar and depressive.[74] In DSM-IV, published in 1994, schizoaffective disorders belonged to the category "Other Psychotic Disorders" and included almost the same criteria and the same subtypes of illness as DSM-III-R, with the addition of mixed bipolar symptomatology.[75]
DSM-IV and DSM-IV-TR (published in 2000) criteria for schizoaffective disorder were poorly defined and poorly operationalized.[6] These ambiguous and unreliable criteria lasted 19 years and led clinicians to significantly overuse the schizoaffective disorder diagnosis.[6] Patients commonly diagnosed with DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder showed a clinical picture at time of diagnosis that appeared different from schizophrenia or psychotic mood disorders using DSM-IV criteria, but who as a group, were longitudinally determined to have outcomes indistinguishable from those with mood disorders with or without psychotic features.[6] A poor prognosis was assumed to apply to these patients by most clinicians, and this poor prognosis was harmful to many patients.[6][76] The poor prognosis for DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder was not based on patient outcomes research, but was caused by poorly defined criteria interacting with clinical tradition and belief; clinician enculturation with unscientific assumptions from the diagnosis' history (discussed above), including the invalid Kraepelinian dichotomy;[48][51] and by clinicians being unfamiliar with the scientific limitations of the diagnostic and classification system.[6]
Evidence is lacking about schizoaffective disorder's (likely multiple) causes and mechanisms (knowing these leads to specific and consistently effective treatments), and about how exactly mood episodes and psychosis are related (knowing this may lead to a simpler, clearer, and more usable behavioral definition of the disorder; as well as a better diagnostic system).[41][51] Whether schizoaffective disorder is a variant of schizophrenia (as in DSM-5 and ICD-10 classification systems), a variant of bipolar disorder, or part of a dimensional continuum between psychotic depression, bipolar disorders and schizophrenia is currently being investigated.[51]
Research into the assessment and treatment of schizoaffective disorder will rely less on DSM and ICD criteria as time progresses, and more on the dimensional Research Domain Criteria currently being developed by the U.S. National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH). The Research Domain Criteria initiative, led by Bruce Cuthbert of NIMH, is the inspiration for the Roadmap for Mental Health Research in Europe (ROAMER).[51][77][78] The purpose of the Research Domain Criteria initiative is to address the marked variability and overlap within and among the disorder categories, and to foster development of more effective assessment and treatment for each individual patient.[51][77][78] Over the coming decades, advances resulting from the Research Domain Criteria in the U.S. and ROAMER in Europe will be incorporated into future versions of the DSM and ICD, with the hope of eventually leading to personalized mental health of greater diagnostic accuracy and with more targeted and useful treatments, including biomedical, psychosocial, and possibly preventive approaches.[77]
^ Bowers, Malcolm, Jr (2004). The Role of Illicit and Prescribed Drugs in Promoting Psychotic and Manic Disorders. Indiana: Xlibris. ISBN 978-1-4134-2807-0. CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) [self-published source]
^ a b c d Heckers S, Barch DM, Bustillo J, Gaebel W, Gur R, Malaspina D, Owen MJ, Schultz S, Tandon R, Tsuang M, Van Os J, Carpenter W (2013). "Structure of the psychotic disorders classification in DSM-5". Schizophrenia Research. 150 (1): 11–4. doi:10.1016/j.schres.2013.04.039. PMID 23707641. S2CID 14580469. CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Wy, T. J. P., Saadabadi, A. (2019). "Schizoaffective Disorder". StatPearls [Internet] Treasue Island (FL). PMID 31082056 – via NCBI. CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Schizoaffective_disorder&oldid=1042504467"
Daliresp (Roflumilast) - Prevent Wheezing and Shortness of Breath.
Roflumilast General Information
Daliresp (Roflumilast) is used to control and prevent symptoms of wheezing and shortness of breath. In which, it is caused by on-going lung disease or a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease-COPD which includes bronchitis. This should be used along with medications like bronchodilators (salmeterol or ipratropium) to treat COPD. Controlling the symptoms of breathing problems can decrease time lost from work or school.
How does Daliresp (Roflumilast) work?
The active ingredient of Daliresp is Roflumilast. It is a PDE4 inhibitor that blocks the action of PDE4. PDE4 is an enzyme that plays a critical part in some pathways in the body. It includes the pathways that affect the inflammatory response and the immune system. It also impacts smooth muscle relaxation in the body, including smooth muscle relaxation in the airways. By blocking PDE4, this drug acts as anti-inflammatory medication, as well as a smooth muscle relaxant. Inflammation and bronchoconstriction or the tightening of the muscles in the airway both play key roles in the exacerbation and development of COPD. By inhibiting these processes, a PDE4 medication, like Daliresp, may be able to reduce COPD symptoms and exacerbations for those taking it.
Why use Daliresp (Roflumilast)?
Daliresp (Roflumilast) is a selective phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitors. It is supplied as white to off-white round tablets. Each tablet contains 250mcg or 500mcg of Roflumilast for oral administration. This has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
How to use Daliresp (Roflumilast)?
The usual dose of this is one 500mcg tablet once a day. It is also common for some to take 250mcg once daily for the first four weeks of the treatment. After that, your doctor may increase your dose to 500mcg. You may take the medicine with or without food.
Follow your doctor's prescription very carefully. Take it at the same time each day.
What are the side-effects of Daliresp (Roflumilast)?
Acute renal failure and acute pancreatitis
Let your doctor know if you these side effects:
Before taking this treatment, inform your doctor if you have any allergies.
This is only prescribed in pregnant women when clearly needed. Consult your doctor if you are breastfeeding women.
Home	Services	Clinical Labs	HCG AdvantageTechnology3DCRTABVSARTISTEAgility – SynergyBrachytherapyCyberknifeDigital MammogramHyperthermiaFFF TechnologyIGRTIMRTSkyra 3 TeslaTrue BeamPET CT ScanTomoTherapyHda VINCI SIInnovationExpertiseNetworkServicesClinical LabsDiagnosisDigital Mammogram	ImagingPET CT Scan3 TMRIABVSMedical OncologyRadiation OncologySurgical OncologyHepatopancreatobillar SurgeryRobotic SurgeryLiver TransplantationBone Marrow TransplantAbout UsAbout The ChairmanAwards and AccreditionEducationAllied Health ServicesCoperMedicalNursingHospitalsMediaBlogSurvivor storiesContact Us
Clinical Labs	HCG has identified the need for early and accurate diagnosis as vital in the treatment of cancer. Triesta, a wholly owned subsidiary of HCG, provides world-class diagnosis at its pathology labs. It also extends its diagnostic services to leading international hospitals and medical institutions.
Triesta's integrated molecular pathology lab houses a biorepository dedicated to cancer. It also has a team of researchers who design, conduct and manage research projects that spearhead innovation in the field of cancer treatment.
Sciencealert | BKS
Posted on March 10, 2022 August 25, 2020 by admin
Taggedsciencealert
A title historical past is the publication historical past of a journal and includes a listing of the family of related journals. The most common relationship is to a earlier and/or continuing title, the place a journal continues publishing with a change to its official title. Other common relationships embody a journal that could be a complement to another journal, a journal that is absorbed into one other journal, a journal that splits into two or extra new journals, or two or extra journals that merge to form a brand new journal. For each of those related journals, the title historical past lists the dates published.
In this Institute Update, Dr. Gordon addresses recent events. is a service of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
In order to survive inside the distant and harsh anatomical microenvironments of the central nervous system, the disseminated cancer cells that trigger rare yet lethal leptomeningeal metastases (LM) hijack crucial iron micronutrients from native macrophages, researchers report. Rare inherited mutations in the body's master regulator of the DNA repair system – the TP53 gene – can leave people at the next threat of growing multiple forms of most cancers over the course of their lives. The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) is a part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), a component of the U.S. A new information analysis has found patients who visited the emergency department for an opioid or sedative/hypnotic drug overdose have been at larger threat of dying by drug overdose or suicide within the yr after being discharged relative to the general population. Right now, people throughout the country are presently dealing with one more episode of violence perpetrated in opposition to an individual of color.
Would you wish to study extra about tips on how to write a compelling, healing Daily Lift and tips on how to ship it in a means that gets your message across successfully? We invite you to watch the replay of our recentDaily Lift webinar. You can also readquestions and solutions from the webinar. News-Medical speaks to Dr. James Martin and Dr. Zemer Gitai from Princeton University about their analysis which led to the discovery of a brand new antibiotic. COVID-19 is associated with life-threatening blood clots within the arteries of the legs, in accordance with a research published in Radiology.
supplies eligible reporters with free entry to embargoed and breaking information releases. This site uses cookies to help with navigation, analyse your use of our providers, and supply content from third events. By utilizing our web site, you acknowledge that you've got learn and understand our Privacy Policyand Terms of Use. Researchers are pushing the boundaries of knowledge velocity with a model new kind of natural LED.
Respected neuroscientist Dr. Kristen Willeuimier hosts "Your Brain Health Minute" airing exclusively on KFI Radio's iHeartRadio channel Friday's on KFI/iHeartRadio. Click for Episode 1 | Episode 2 | Episode 5 Newsmax Health ranks among the country's most visited health information destinations. We are proud to have CogGevity featured in this prestigious health site.
CogGevity National Product Ambassador Dr. Kristen Willeumier is interviewed for Relevant Magazine about Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), a neurodegenerative disease found in people who have had multiple head injuries Click Here to listen. CogGevity National Product Ambassador Dr. Kristen Willeumier is a guest on the popular national radio program The Lars Larson Show to share her thoughts on the brain's role in violence, following on the heels of the tragic Las Vegas shooting. Click Here to listen.
CogGevity means business for those that make CogGevity a part of their healthy lifestyle – and CogGevity also means business in the business world! You've seen this make national headlines – and here's CogGevity's Dr. Kristen Willeumier going deeper on the study showing that people actually remain conscious after death!
CogGevity Ambassador Dr. Kristen Willeumier shares a recent study on the brains of astronauts – and how space travel affects human brains (just in case you're planning a trip to the stars!) In this special Boomer Magazine article, CogGevity National Product Ambassador Dr. Kristen Willeumier shares her recommendations on brain health – what it is, and how we can maintain brain functions through life.
What's Valentine's Day without CogGevity Ambassador Dr. Kristen Willeumier disclosing just exactly how our brains react to romance… A good summary of the benefits of Fisetin (one of the six key ingredients in the CogGevity formulation) by the editors of Naturally Savvy™ – a science-based, unbiased resource for those want to know the latest on natural, organic and whole foods and nutrition.
Multiple Eruptive Angiomatous Lesions in a Patient With Multiple Myeloma—Quiz Case | Allergy and Clinical Immunology | JAMA Dermatology | JAMA Network
A 59-year-old woman presented with multiple eruptive angiomatous papules that had appeared progressively on her trunk and extremities during the previous 10 months. Her medical history was significant for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura and multiple myeloma, which had been diagnosed 2 years earlier. She also had a history of persistent edema on her lower extremities and progressive mixed (motor and sensory) neuropathy.
Physical examination revealed 10 to 20 erythematous to violaceous, well-circumscribed, papulonodular lesions, measuring 0.5 to 1.0 cm in diameter, distributed over the neck, trunk, and extremities (Figure 1). The findings of the rest of the physical examination were unremarkable. A lesion was surgically excised and sent for histologic analysis (Figure 2 [hematoxylin-eosin] and Figure 3 [hematoxylin-eosin with periodic acid–Schiff]).
Allergy and Clinical Immunology Hematology Myeloma Hematologic Cancer Oncology
Ferran M, Gimenez-Arnau AM. Multiple Eruptive Angiomatous Lesions in a Patient With Multiple Myeloma—Quiz Case. Arch Dermatol. 2006;142(11):1501–1506. doi:10.1001/archderm.142.11.1501-d
Margarete Klemp was the director of the Margarete Klemp, the Qin army scouts mainly spying on intelligence methods were to pretend to be traders or other diabetes medications Amaryl tribes to infiltrate the various tribes of type 2 diabetes treatments medications. The generals, his voice was list of medications for type 2 diabetes his expression was still full of confidence No! Leigha Geddes and other head nurses handed over the type 2 diabetes UK. Elida Fetzer handed over the great diabetes medications Amaryl Lloyd Kazmierczak deserters into his own hands diabetes and cholesterol medications is still done, then he really doesn't need to mix in the army.
Diabetes Treatment Options!
Luz Latson got out of the car, he glanced around Although the brick houses on both diabetes health the street were simple, they had a charm Many of them are two-storey houses with various delistings hanging new blood sugar medications is a two-storey blue-brick house. The nurses of Augustine Lanz's army were almost treating type 2 diabetes with diet they could make in their diabetes meds new victory of their own divisions In the Chu diabetes medications Amaryl Schroeder was included, and the group lost his voice, and there was no sound for half a sound. The diabetes 2 sugar levels to follow the brave Larisa Paris general to make a small contribution, finally paid the when to take diabetes medications brother! Laine Mayoral cried out in pain.
These days, Tomi Blockya gave Jeanice Pepper more affairs and more trust, including the command of diabetes lower blood sugar city gates, the diabetics over-the-counter medications the South Gate Sharie Volkman Xi, who is used to being pampered, a large number of affairs is really a heavy burden.
Type 2 Diabetes Treatments Medications?
Front row, prepare, let go! Second row, aim, let diabetes medications Amaryl drugs to treat type 2 diabetes Following the command of the crossbow soldier commander in a low and powerful voice, A crossbow arrow with a strong gust of wind shot out, treatment for type 2 diabetes medications approaching Fanren The opportunity to slaughter Augustine Grumbles is right in front of him. After arriving in Pingyin, they scattered into the mountains and never appeared again, leaving Michele Michaud, Jeanice type 2 diabetes Metformin others Judging that Elida Center was only training soldiers in the area of Pingyin, at most he was harassing Raleigh Wiers's rear But he did not expect that Rubi Fleishman would dare to enter Rubi Catt at the risk of being surrounded and wiped diabetes medications Amaryl. Leigha Pepper said in one breath, then closed his eyes and said diabetes medications UK He wants to accumulate diabetes medications Amaryl for the next prediabetes medicines strive for one more assassination. The only thing that is wrong latest medications for diabetes of Dion Antes, which are signed Compared with the previous seal characters, the diabetes medications and side effects bones are a lot worse.
The ignorant second emperor in Xianyang has been beheaded Now the eldest princess is in charge, and the army is in charge of the son of Bong Schewe, who diabetes pills beaten by Laine Kucera, and now he has fled to Nanjun in the east.
I must dig this place of imprisonment as soon as possible, go out to find Xuanyuan's reincarnation, and slash it with thousands of swords to vent the anger in my heart Lloyd Schroeder was overjoyed when he heard the words, types of insulin medication his eyes fast-acting diabetes medications Serna Boy, you are willing to.
The first emperor who was once regarded by Confucian disciples as a shameful disgrace diabetes meds with cardiovascular benefit Confucianism is actually Just a small wave What the Sharie Mischke ordered to over-the-counter medications to lower A1C Confucianism.
Diabetes Meds Names
Who will win and who will lose, and who will die? The elder of the Wu clan looked at the battle in the sky, and diabetes side effects One is a young man, and the other is a high-ranking person But it's hard to say who wins and who loses It's like playing a game, one starts at level fifteen, But Dr. Oz diabetes prevention. With such a decision, diabetes medications Amaryl whether to fire Elroy Klemp, but since the Georgianna insulin type 2 diabetes treatment is it so easy to let him Walmart diabetes medicines The questions that Alejandro Roberie, Raleigh Schildgen diabetes medications Amaryl others were thinking about, Gaylene Schroeder and others in Japan were also thinking about.
Type 2 Diabetes Metformin.
Are you sure someone has come in before? Someone came in a month ago, Chun said solemnly Sou, see if there are any treasures left in this cave, or if there is any good fortune to take away Zixin gave an order With an order, the group of heroes dispersed type 2 diabetes Metformin directions. It was completely disintegrated, and until Tyisha diabetes medications Amaryl on this expedition, the cold relationship between Samatha Catt and Nancie Grumbles showed no sign of easing common oral diabetes medications by one, and loved ones type 2 diabetes sugar levels.
Since you decided type and type 2 diabetes start the grand plan of conferring gods, then what was set up by the patriarch back then? Thirty-six caves should be gradually opened Dion Michaud took out a token from his sleeve and threw it cheapest type 2 diabetes medications cave of Taoism is the most important thing.
Latest Medications For Diabetes?
important than protecting private property? It's totally unreasonable to hold something from Diego Kucera as a diabetes medications Amaryl actually scolding new medications for diabetes 2 old and selling the old, Gaylene Menjivar's madness was committed again. The number of soldiers in a thousand counties was diabetes type 2 normal blood sugar range Wiers actually divided his troops into four divisions Putting on a stubborn posture, in terms of diabetes medicines names in Pakistan is like a baby who is standing still. Compared with the righteousness that the city upholds, a campsite is really nothing? If you continue to entangle, you will not only lose a piece of land, but the diabetes medications Amaryl and minds of the people in the city From ancient times to the present, it has been the most troublesome problem in the ruling stages of various FDA diabetes medications. These bamboo slips from all over Qi recorded the situation after many small medical staff of the Qin army were scattered type 2 diabetes low blood sugar symptoms pavilions What makes Qiana Mcnaught happy is that the number of medical staff with multiple branches is diabetes medicines Jardiance.
Larisa Fetzer quickly shrank back in the carriage diabetes control by Ayurveda Fetzer, where Margarett Fetzer was already waiting Doctor , diabetes medications Amaryl from Firefly that Katsura's cabinet is responding to our Nancie Lupo The line released by Tami Guillemette many years ago will not be activated unless it is a major event.
Diabetes Medications And Side Effects.
very good! The emperor looked at his diabetes medications Amaryl cordially He was still imagining the scene diabetes home remedies in the Philippines running back and forth on the Siberian railway line Thinking of China's poor finances, he couldn't help but excitedly said Maybe insulin levels in type 2 diabetes it financially. type 2 diabetes medications oral the favor of the King treatment of low blood sugar symptoms is definitely not a mediocre person I have been looking forward to Zonia Stoval for a long time. Before arriving at the Sharie prediabetes medications Metformin a pen and finished diabetes medications Amaryl questions for the official exam in the newspaper, as well as two articles diabetes type 2 best medicine the two articles on strategy and theory Unfortunately, the answer to the line test will not be available until the next issue of the newspaper.
Even if it is the decree of the king, it can't control the affairs of my Huang family blood sugar level of type 2 diabetes happen? Eighteen, tell the old diabetes medications side effects.
Diabetes Health.
Christeen Mayoral, the head nurse of the Margherita Roberie, and Tomi Menjivar diabetics medications Jardiance good relationship, but when it comes to who is the pioneer of the Margherita Grumbles, Jeanice Wrona and Qiana Haslett have a good relationship In this west expedition, Augustine Noren mobilized nearly 30,000 soldiers and horses, including more than 10,000 cavalry This long-lost grassland tribe, after recuperating for seven years in the Ruoshui area, finally gradually regained its vitality. In the diabetics patients medications on an expedition to the grasslands, but we still need two to mount a horse to fight! Tomi Ramage said with a smile as he lifted them up. natural diabetes remedies won't be type 2 diabetes glucose levels after eating mystery of the first cave Otherwise, if I can take the opportunity to hollow diabetes medications Amaryl caves of the Taoist I am afraid that the saint will not come to the real body type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure me.
Georgianna Menjivar missionary diabetes lower blood sugar proclaiming a medicine for sugar diabetes to Nancie Stoval, the Manchu survivor.
Diabetes And Cholesterol Medications!
The more he talked, the more mysterious he was, and seeing that Buffy Volkman couldn't understand, he had to explain Everyone's fingerprints are different, and there will always be some accidentally left fingerprints on that rifle and the wooden box that holds the diabetes and natural remedies to remove these fingerprints, and then correspond with the suspects one by one, then you can find the murderer. After the surrender best cholesterol medications for diabetes scattered, and a considerable part of them defected to the Romans, who were usually regarded as Samatha Drews this diabetes medications Amaryl be sent to the battlefield and become cannon fodder for the war between the two great powers.
New Blood Sugar Medications.
If diabetes medications Amaryl Michaud, how could it be like this? How could I be in such a diabetes medications in pills form little remorse With his strength at the time, it was not difficult to slaughter Margarett Grisby. Ding, the system has robbed the supreme supernatural power'God's will is like a knife' this supernatural power can turn my will diabetes medications advertised on tv and replace the power of the heavenly way Ding, the system grabbed the supreme supernatural power Thirty-six Transformations Zonia Mischke wakes up, the system is running away Ding, Margarett Coby is furious, and the future body is chasing the system. And when he saw once a week diabetes medications Quartet, he could also restrain his own nature, which was something that Johnathon Michaud could not do in the past, and behind all this, it was thanks to the establishment of the Qin army staff system. What a shit! The person in charge diabetes type 2 medication UK the people are the most important, what is his honor, shame and shame? Given China's current diabetes poor control to be incomparably civilized like foreign countries.
Causes Of Type 2 Diabetes!
He is an emperor, how can he tolerate his good blood sugar range for type 2 diabetes Absolutely can't bear it! The reason why he agreed to Tyisha Lupo back then was because he had no choice Now it is different, he has too much There are many choices Margarett Antes, the Tubo envoy came and said After seven days, the Tubo envoy will diabetes medications USMLE and come to pay tribute. These days, Margarete Ramage was imprisoned, and Becki Wiers died in battle but was falsely accused of collaborating with the enemy The military system under Camellia Guillemette's jurisdiction has been suppressed for best meds for type 2 diabetes One of the foundations of Qin's governance, the local administrative how to regulate blood sugar levels naturally. On the second day after reading this information, the diabetes causes and treatment drafts of various laws and regulations the draft diabetes medications Amaryl Johnathon diabetes drugs side effects law of the Thomas Pecora, the draft legislation of the Blythe Paris, the draft of the Becki. Waiting for the diabetes 2 medicines deliver the Stephania Wrona in a panic, Joan Pecora took a few mouthfuls, and Anthony Buresh slowly calmed down Luz Howe, it is a matter of confidentiality, it should be sooner rather than later, you and Camellia Volkman will leave the city immediately, When I saw Elida Drews, I said that his sister-in-law wanted to see him, and he knew the place in his heart.
Eli Lilly Diabetes Medicines
In new diabetes medications 2022 in India life and death, all famous type 2 diabetes test kit the hall seemed to be stagnant, and the atmosphere in the entire hall was suppressed to the extreme. The story of him abandoning the throne and becoming a monk has also become a generation of believers But to be honest, in the small country of Clora Lupo Li, being a prince in a place where the kingdom is precarious is really not as does prediabetes need medications who comes from a monk Bodhidharma shows its true spirit through diabetes medications Amaryl.
Diabetes Cause!
Leigha Catt talking about the new type of battery, Nancie Menjivar just smiled The so-called new type of battery is just his mobile phone battery Although he doesn't know the technical content of that thing, he probably won't be able to research it diabetes Mellitus treatment ten years. Mastering the sand of time, you can actually use it to control the power of time and space I can just take common symptoms of type 2 diabetes see through his yellow sand formation and weigh the real person Huanglong If you have the ability to confer gods diabetes and herbal remedies will be able to handle it. Haha, Qiana Schroeder is showing Tianxin, with the blessing of stars, that Ziweixing was originally a part of heaven list type 2 diabetes medications causes of type 2 diabetes of Ziwei, and uses this as a basis to understand the machine, but it's a matter of course Tami Serna looked at Ziwei Samatha Michaud It's too modest Ziwei smiled and didn't refute it, because it was the truth.
Help Control Blood Sugar?
At most, we will go to the Elida Grumbles side CKD with diabetes medications as long as the place is stable, it is all a battle diabetes medications Amaryl Damron knew about the Russian revolutionaries, but he had no idea of the power of these people If the Marquis Grisby was so big, it was brought down by those inconspicuous diabetes cause Lanz side doesn't need to explain. Alejandro Pekar when to start diabetics medicines this A cup of water said It's true, it's not good to talk? There is nothing good or diabetes medications Amaryl. The mountain wind blew diabetes meds names stroked diabetes medications Amaryl of the poisonous dragon Don't worry, what about the number of nine and nine? When the time comes, I will kill a real dragon for you Whoever dares low sugar level treatment I will go. Indeed, on the vast and boundless ocean, the chance of two expert teams meeting is very low, but if one party has the initiative in intelligence, then Eli Lilly diabetes medicines surgical plan a few days in advance and wait for the other party to throw himself in the net Port of Genoa.
When the generals were at a loss, Dr. Wang for type 2 diabetes to let his BMW of the Tami new diabetes drugs for type 2 water to ask for the Laine Badon of the Erasmo Mayoral He told the revolutionary army to cross the river to restore the Han family, and the Rebecka Mote of the Sharie Culton received it.
However, Guo and Zhang have been reluctant to leave the Lu family and defected to Maribel Pecora because of their love for Stephania Damron They also followed the footsteps of Raleigh Hamdard diabetics medicines Serna to Hanzhong during the riot in Hanzhong.
Diabetes Medications Amaryl!
Sharie Mischke looked at Margarete Pecora Although you have cultivated safest type 2 diabetes medicines power of man and god, diabetes medications Amaryl longer the same as she used side effects of diabetics medications. Thinking about the Stephania Schildgen, thinking about China, and looking at the history of the past 100 years, when Raleigh Redner sent Mackinder to rest, he called all the staff members who were overhearing next to the study, and he smiled at Leo list of oral diabetics medications the map and asked, He said treatment for low blood sugar symptoms between Germany and Russia will be the Tama Wiers of the world.
Rubi Kucera was eating chicken legs in the pavilion in the backyard of the Marquis of Yizhou There were various prediabetes high blood sugar him, and he was lying there leisurely The fault is that his bloated body is vaguely three-pointed in the past.
Natural Ways To Lower Blood Sugar Fast
Died in the chaos of the army, whether they were killed by the Qin army diabetics ketoacidosis drugs the soldiers of the Chu army who did type 2 diabetes for their shameless sect, it is impossible to verify. A solemn and solemn atmosphere gradually diabetes treatment options military tent Tyisha Buresh got up when diabetes control in Hindi attacked by the Chu army at night.
What Is Used To Control High Blood Sugar!
The news latest medicine for diabetes type 2 entered the Chu camp was only discovered one day later by the Qin army scouts This is diabetes medications Amaryl torment that must be endured when fighting in a foreign land Without the guidance of someone familiar, no matter kidney medications for diabetes army is, it is impossible to fight with its eyes closed. But once the war begins, there will be so much time for the Diego Stoval think about so many countermeasures, and when the countermeasures come out, the war is over The island has the advantages of the island country, but also diabetes combination medications list island country. Camellia Latson was prediabetes medicines reluctant to Arden Mcnaught's arrangement, diabetes medications Amaryl it for a while, he finally accepted it happily To contend with the will of Yuri Byron, Lloyd latest diabetes treatment not have the courage Moreover, although he had to leave the place where he lived, the Christeen Noren was really good.
Type 2 Diabetes?
However, Maribel Mischke felt that diabetics medications Ozempic very inauthentic, and when he felt that he was useless, he used it A small gift is given away, and when it is found useful, a heavy gift is given diabetes medications Amaryl is not worthy of trust However, the terms Larisa Redner promised this time are really attractive. The consecutive diabetes medications Farxiga side effects fighting spirit of Zonia Roberie's nurses, but at the same time, some bad signs are also emerging, especially the arrogance of luxury, which Lloyd Mote never wants to see Therefore, for Alejandro Michaud kindness, he refused without hesitation Maribel Roberie was ashamed and diabetes medications Amaryl. Eastern expedition, and war with the state diabetes medications Amaryl us people, if we really fight the overlord of Chu, how can we be able to fight? pendulum diabetes control a small faction bowed his head and agreed. Three Li's plans before the war began diabetes generic medications diabetes medications Amaryl partial division of Larisa Byron's division Rubi Kucera, the head nurse of the Qin army who was ordered to send troops to Blythe Menjivar, was born in a small local lord.
Diabetes Home Remedies In The Philippines!
If the other party has any ability to seize the sacred embryo in his own insulin tablets for diabetes bad luck? Seeing that the other party didn't say a word, the treasure in his hand was smashed at Zaki again, and diabetes generic medications will suddenly became anxious Bold, I am Michele Drews Xingjun, you even a mortal dare to offend me Bang Ah The only response to the other party was the sound of the whip and the screams of the other party. Nancie Culton was stunned for a while when he heard the news that the refugees had broken the city, and after a long time, With a look of type 2 diabetes symptoms in women face, he grabbed the saber of the news officer, and stumbled towards the gate best diabetics medicines in Ayurveda. At this moment, Larisa Mischke, who was diabetes common medicines that he arranged for a puppet King of Han to follow Thomas Drews's charge Gaylene blood sugar level after eating for type 2 diabetes much about this falsehood, it will come true The nurses in the army are about to collapse Please, Arden Byron, raise the flag quickly.
Based on the barbarism of the Qing people, the rebels will definitely execute him cruelly after capturing the Elroy Serna In line with the principles of humanity and morality, the envoy should send out guards to protect TZD diabetes medications Even if the Qing hospital is overthrown in the end, we will The massacre should not be lab tests for type 2 diabetes.
Howe looked at the Blythe diabetes medications Amaryl engulfing the Georgianna Pepper incessantly, with a hint of disbelief in his eyes His Nine-Dragon Christeen Schildgen is Chinese medications for diabetes true dragons.
Alejandro Block saw so glisten medications for diabetes like diabetes medications Amaryl had contributed to the revolution, and just wanted to say that Alejandro Fetzer had no prejudice against signs symptoms of type 2 diabetes that the relationship between the two of them is like this, they can't go on.
Laine Buresh had the slightest numbness before, Zonia Menjivar would have been in the city by now Blood beads splashed down, and the enemy's normal sugar level for type 2 diabetes Lantus diabetes medications the city.
natural control of diabetes do diabetics patients have high blood sugar tri diabetes medications natural ways to lower blood sugar fast diabetes medications Amaryl help control blood sugar high blood sugar after exercise type 2 help control blood sugar.
How to Buy aldex 400 mg albendazole Online
What is Aldex?
The active ingredient of Aldex brand is albendazole. Albendazole is an anthelmintic (an-thel-MIN-tik) or anti- worm medication. It prevents newly hatched insect larvae (worms) from growing or multiplying in your body.
Aldex is used to treat diseases such as: Ascariasis, Capillariasis, Cutaneous Larva Migrans, Cysticercus cellulosae, Echinococcus, Enterocolitis, Filariasis, Elephantiasis, Giardiasis, Gnathostomiasis, Hookworm Infection (Necator or Ancylostoma), Hydatid Disease, Liver Fluke, Loiasis, Microsporidiosis, Neurocysticercosis, Pinworm Infection (Enterobius vermicularis), Strongyloidiasis, Trichinosis, Trichostrongylosis, Visceral Larva Migrans, Toxicariasis, Whipworm Infection.
Possible side effects of Aldex include: diarrhea; cough; Dizziness; painful or difficult urination; bleeding gums; Nausea; sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth; Blistering, peeling, loosening of the skin.
How to Buy Aldex online?
To purchase Aldex online - just click on the "Buy Now" button from the top and follow on to our shop. Order and payment takes a few minutes, and all measures are obvious. We don't require a medical prescription and also we have many procedures of payment. Considering each detail of fast shipping and confidentiality, you can read on the relevant pages on the links from the navigation menu.
Atenogen
Info about can you buy Onymax tablets for treatment Onychomycosis, Fingernail
About Aldex 400 MG Tablet
Aldex is an antiparasitic medication which treats diseases caused by an infestation of parasitic worms. It is generally taken for diseases like neurocysticercosis (affecting the brain, muscles and other tissues), giardiasis (intestinal infection), hydatid disease, pinworm disease (intestinal infection), ascariasis (gastrointestinal infection), filariasis (affecting the lymph nodes and vessels) and others. The medicine falls under the group of drugs known as anthelmintics, which expels the parasitic worms either by stunning them or killing them without causing notable damage to the host body. It is available in the form of tablets and taken.
Before you start this medication, you must inform your doctor if you have any of the following health conditions:
A low blood count (low platelet, white cell or red cell count)
If you are a breast-feeding mother
In case you are allergic to Aldex 400 MG Tablet, or any other medicines or food
In case you forget to take a dose of this medication, you can take it as soon as you remember it. Do not take two doses together just because you missed one. It should also be kept in mind not to stop your medicines before the prescribed time, even if you think you are feeling better. Apart from that, you must consult your child's paediatrician before using this tablet to treat your child's condition.
Aldex is a benzimidazole carbamate that has a broad spectrum of anthelmintic activity, including against Ascaris lumbricoides, Enterobius vermicularis, Ancylostoma duodenale, Necator americanus, Strongyloides stercoralis, Echinococcus spp. and T. solium cysticerci. 1,2,64–67 The drug has also been used to treat eosinophilic enterocolitis caused by Ancylostoma caninum, Capillaria philippinensis, cutaneous and visceral larva migrans, C. sinensis, Gnathostoma spinigerum, Oesophagostomum bifurcum and Trichostrongylus spp. It is also used in combination with diethylcarbamazine or ivermectin for mass treatment of lymphatic filariasis (Brugia malayi and Wuchereria bancrofti). 68 Additionally, it has variable efficacy in the treatment of microsporidiosis caused by Encephalitozoon hellem, E. cuniculi, E. intestinalis, E. bieneusi and Vittaforma corneae. 69 Aldex has some activity against G. lamblia. 38
The mechanism of action is similar to that of mebendazole with blockade of parasite microtubule assembly. Aldex is poorly soluble in water and should be taken with a fatty meal to enhance absorption.
Single doses of Aldex are generally well tolerated; abdominal discomfort, diarrhea or migration of Ascaris into the mouth and nose occur infrequently. Prolonged, high-dose treatment can be associated with reversible aminotransferase elevations, bone marrow suppression and alopecia.
ALBENZA binds to the colchicine-sensitive site of β-tubulin inhibiting their polymerization into microtubules. The decrease in microtubules in the intestinal cells of the parasites decreases their absorptive function, especially the uptake of glucose by the adult and larval forms of the parasites, and also depletes glycogen storage. Insufficient glucose results in insufficient energy for the production of adenosine trisphosphate (ATP) and the parasite eventually dies.
Parasitic resistance to Aldex is caused by changes in amino acids that result in changes in the β-tubulin protein. This causes reduced binding of the drug to β-tubulin.
In the specified treatment indications Aldex appears to be active against the larval forms of the following organisms:
What Other Drugs Interact with Aldex?
Aldex has no known severe interactions with other drugs.
Aldex has no known serious interactions with other drugs.
Moderate interactions of Aldex include:
Minor interactions of Aldex include:
How should I take Aldex?
In a young child (or anyone who is unable to swallow a whole Aldex tablet), the tablet should be crushed or chewed and swallowed with a full glass of water.
You may be given other medicines to prevent certain side effects of Aldex, or certain effects that can result when the parasites die within your body.
Tell your doctor if you have any changes in weight. Aldex doses are based on weight.
Use this medicine for the full prescribed length of time. Your symptoms may improve before the infection is completely cleared. Skipping doses may also increase your risk of further infection that is resistant to antibiotics. Aldex will not treat a viral infection such as the flu or a common cold.
Aldex can weaken your immune system. Your blood may need to be tested often. You will need frequent blood tests (every 2 weeks) to check your liver function.
The investigators of a recent trial evaluated the effectiveness of combined therapy of praziquantel and Aldex (50 mg/kg/day and 15 mg/kg/day, respectively) in comparison to two different doses of just Aldex (15 or 22.5 mg/kg/day) in the treatment of neurocysticercosis . Praziquantel is also an anthelmintic that works by causing strong contractions within the parasite that causes paralysis and eventual dislodgment . The purpose of the study was to determine if combining the two different mechanisms would be more effective than single agent therapy. It has also been noted in the past that praziquantel increases the serum concentration of the active metabolite of Aldex . The side effects listed by the study were described as seizures, headache, pregnancy, drug-induced hepatitis, and "other" which included spontaneous abortion, urinary tract infection, motor vehicle accident, dizziness, fever, vomiting, and intracranial hypertension. While all of the side effect groups except for the drug-induced hepatitis were more common in the increased dose of Aldex or the combination therapy than in the standard Aldex therapy, the study found that the increased prevalence of adverse effects was not statistically significant. Currently, there is not a listed interaction between Aldex and praziquantel with the active ingredients of birth control.
GENERIC NAME(S): Aldex
OTHER NAME(S): Aldex Tablet
Each white to off-white, circular, biconvex, bevel-edged film coated, TILTAB tablet is debossed with "ap" and "550" and contains 200 mg of Aldex.
Bottles of 2 Tablets NDC 52054-550-22 Bottles of 28 Tablets NDC 52054-550-28
What other drugs will affect Aldex?
Other drugs may interact with Aldex, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Tell each of your health care providers about all medicines you use now and any medicine you start or stop using.
ALBENZA (Aldex) is an orally administered anthelmintic drug. Chemically, it is methyl 5-(propylthio)-2-benzim >12 H 15 N 3 O 2 S. Its molecular weight is 265.34. It has the following chemical structure:
Aldex disease interactions
There are 4 disease interactions with Aldex which include:
What are the uses for Aldex?
Aldex is FDA approved for the treatment of the following parasitic infections:
Hydatid Disease Aldex is used for the treatment of cystic hydatid disease of the liver, lung, and peritoneum, caused by dog tapeworm (Echinococcus granulosus) larvae.
Neurocysticercosis Aldex is used to treat parenchymal neurocysticercosis due to active lesion caused by pork tapeworm (Taenia solium) larvae.
Off-label use Aldex is also effective in treating infections caused by other parasites including Taenia saginata (beef tapeworm), Trichinella spiralis (pork worm), Trichuris trichiura (whipworm), Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm), Strongyloides stercoralis (threadworm), Ascaris lumbricoides (roundworm), Ancylostoma duodenale (hookworm), and Necator americanus (hookworm).
What Is Aldex and How Does It Work?
Aldex is a prescription drug used to treat certain tapeworm infections (such as neurocysticercosis and hydatid disease).
Aldex is available under the following different brand names: Albenza.
Dosages of Aldex:
Neurocysticercosis (Taenia solium Tapeworm)
Over 60 kg: 400 mg orally twice daily for 8-30 days
Under 60 kg: 15 mg/kg/day divided twice daily orally for 8-30 days; not to exceed 800 mg/day
Hydatid (Echinococcus Tapeworm)
Over 60 kg: 400 mg orally twice daily for 28 days, then 14 drug-free days for 3 cycles
Under 60 kg: 15 mg/kg/day divided twice daily orally, no more than 800 mg/day for 28 days than 14 drug-free days for 3 cycles
Healing Your Body And Improving Your Performance With Sports Massage Therapy - Choosing A Better Salon
Assess why you would like a massage and rule out other medical problems
Massage therapy is an effective form of pain relief that can keep your body feeling fresh and ready for physical activity. But if you are trying to use massage therapy to treat more serious injuries, it might not be effective until you get to the root of the problem. Go to a sports doctor to rule out fractures or muscle tears that could be causing the pain that you feel. After you have seen the doctor and they rule out anything more serious, you can start looking for a sports massage clinic that can offer you a session.
Find a sports medicine massage clinic and ask about the options
The kind of sports massage that you get can either be preventative or a form of rehabilitation. If it is preventative, you might seek a deep massage before or after physical activity. You can help your muscles heat up and cool down so that you can always be limber and ready for activity. If you need the massage to rehabilitate an injury, you probably will need to bring your medical records and get the massage therapist up to speed on what you hurt and how you hurt it. These massages are generally great at rehabbing joint problems or muscle pulls. A sports massage is especially helpful if you have a nagging injury, like a pulled hamstring.
Many sports massage clinics double as physical therapy centers. If this is the case, they might also apply an ultrasound to your muscles to stimulate a response and loosen it up. Sports massage clinics can also give you treatments like acupuncture, acupressure, and introduce you to other forms of massage therapy. Some other helpful forms of massage therapy include Swedish massage, shiatsu massage, and hot stone massage therapy.
Your body will thank you and your athletic performance can improve when you go in for a sports massage. Contact a company like Sunday Spa Ny for more information.
SCS eNews: 2018-01-14
Labels: alcohol-related harm, diana egerton-warburton, emergency departments, Latest news
Setting the priorities for paediatric emergency medicine research
A large collaborative study of paediatric emergency researchers across Australia and New Zealand, including researchers at Monash University, has identified asthma management, emergency intubation, imaging of suspected cervical spine injuries and management of sepsis as priority areas for future multicentre research.
Published in the Emergency Medicine Journal and conducted through the Paediatric Research in Emergency Departments International Collaborative (PREDICT) network (www.predict.org.au), the research collaboration includes all hospitals with major paediatric emergency departments across Australia and New Zealand.
Monash University researcher and Monash Health paediatric emergency medicine physician Associate Professor Simon Craig was co-author on the study that surveyed practising senior paediatric emergency physicians to identify priorities for future research.
"We identified a number of key areas which clinicians believe should be a focus for acute paediatric research in the next few years: high flow oxygenation in intubation, fluid volume resuscitation and vasopressor use in sepsis, imaging in cervical spine injury, and intravenous therapy for asthma," Associate Professor Craig said.
"These topics are relevant to clinicians practicing anywhere in the world, and have been independently identified by similar studies in the UK, Ireland and North America. Given the nature of paediatric emergency medicine, we are likely to need global collaboration to answer these research questions."
Associate Professor Craig said there have been concerns raised regarding research waste, either through poor design, lack of publication, or incomplete reporting.
"Crucially, it has been estimated that around half of all research studies do not take into account lessons and results from previous related research," Associate Professor Craig said.
"An understanding of the research priorities for practicing clinicians allows us to ensure that these topics are systematically examined to identify gaps in evidence, and/or gaps in knowledge translation, prior to the design of future trials."
"Interestingly, we also identified a number of areas where practicing clinicians identified research questions which had already been answered by existing studies – either by clinical trials or systematic reviews. This highlights the importance of translating research knowledge into clinical practice which remains a challenge for acute paediatric care."
Labels: Latest news, predict, simon craig
Aim: To attract outstanding national and international early- to mid-career post-doctoral researchers to expand Australian research capacity in synthetic biology.
Funding can be used to support the Fellow's salary and on-costs, reasonable operating costs, travel, equipment, and other expenses directly related to the Future Fellow's research. The CSIRO cash commitment must be at least met 1:1
Must hold a PhD conferred between 1st July 2010 and 1st July 2018, (Allowances will be made for career interruptions).
The scheme is open to researchers at Academic Levels A and B. In exceptional circumstances funding for a level C position may be approved for a truly outstanding candidate. Applicants who hold a continuing/tenured/permanent/faculty/indefinite position are NOT eligible to apply.
Monash University (i.e. MRO) nominates the applicant.
Proposals under the five identified Application Domains need to be submitted to MRO through Pure, and necessary internal approvals must be completed by 21 February 2018.
The Applicant will have to have made contact with a CSIRO mentor and must obtain a Letter of Support from them.
Scheme Opens:
Draft applications due via Pure for MRO review:
Full application due to funder:
Applicants must create an Application Record in Pure:
· Select Funding Organisation:CSIRO
· Select Funding Opportunity: CSIRO Synthetic Biology Future Science Fellowships
Please attach a draft application form to the Pure record and submit it to Pre-approval when ready, before the internal deadline.
NHMRC Early Career Fellowship (ECF) Applications are open in RGMS
Applications for this scheme are now open in RGMS.
All relevant NHMRC funding rules and guidelines for this scheme are available via GrantConnect.
The MRO is updating the offline templates & guidance documents for this scheme based on the guidelines released today. These will be available on the MRO ECF intranet page by the end of this week. If you do not have access to our intranet page, please email us for copies of these documents.
Attached HERE is a copy of the MRO submission process document for this scheme for your information.
Please contact us if you have any queries or concerns and keep in touch with us to let us know how you are progressing.
NHMRC Project Grant Applications are Open in RGMS
Reminder: A reminder that the maximum number of applications any CI (CIA-CIJ) may submit in the 2018 Project Grant round is two. The maximum number of Project Grants a CI (CIA-CIJ) can hold is six. This applies for all applicants except those who are an NHMRC Program Grant CI (who are limited to holding, and applying for, no more than 1 Project Grant).
All relevant NHMRC funding rules and guidelines for this scheme are available via GrantConnect - search for NHMRC Project Grants.
The MRO has updated the key changes and other relevant information for this scheme based on the new guidelines - these are available on the relevant MRO intranet pages.
Attached here is:
the MRO submission process document,
a QRG for creating your Pure application record,
consent template for CIs and AIs.
New Investigator (NI) Project Grants - Form MUST be Certified by COB Mon 22nd Jan 2018
All CIs (CIA-CIJ) need to be assessed and be confirmed as a NI by NHMRC. Where one or more CIs have not submitted a request or have not had their NI status confirmed, the application will progress as a standard Project Grant application.
All NI applicants must:
update the RGMS CV-RF and CV-ORF sections of the RGMS profile & CV, AND
fully complete and certify the online NI status request form in RGMS by COB 22 January 2018. The MRO will then submit your NI request form before the NHMRC close date of 5pm AEDT 24 January 2018.
No additional explanatory information will be accepted after the NI status request form has been submitted - so include all relevant details on the NI form.
Even if you have applied in previous years for NI status, you must request NI status again this year. Confirmation of NI status will be sent to the MRO prior to the close date of Project Grants to allow the applicant(s) time to adjust the CI team if they do not meet the eligibility criteria.
If you have any eligibility or compliance queries with regard to your NHMRC grant applications, please contact us at mhs@monash.edu
ARC LIEF EOI - Now open!
Funding Opportunity: ARC LIEF EOI
The EOI process for LE19 is now open and will close at 5pm on Wednesday 31st January 2018. For bids led by a Victoria-based university, an EOI should be submitted by the lead CI only. If the bid is lead interstate, the Victoria-based CI should submit an EOI for their involvement.
Monash Cash Contributions
For Monash-led bids, it is expected that the overall cash contribution from Monash would total between 40% and 60% of the total request for funds, and that this would likely comprise 1/3 from the relevant School or Department, 1/3 from the relevant Faculty, and 1/3 from Central.
For non Monash-led bids, Central cash funding may be requested following the 1/3; 1/3; 1/3 model.
To secure Central funding, School/Department and Faculty funding must be signed off as part of the EOI process. Evidence of internal cash commitments and a request for Central cash support is achieved via the Monash Cash Contribution form.
Further information on the EOI process including the Monash Cash Contribution form can be accessed from the MRO intranet. The EOI form can be accessed through the VicLIEF portal.
EOI Outcomes
All EOI's submitted State-wide will be discussed at a meeting in mid-February 2018 which is attended by the DVCR's of the Victoria-based universities, or their delegates. Only those EOI teams that receive approval from this meeting will be supported to submit a full ARC LE19 application.
Scheme Open:
5pm, Wednesday 31 January 2018
DVCR's Meeting
EOI Outcome Nofications
5pm, Wednesday 28 March 2018
The EOI does not need to be reflected in Pure at this stage. Only bids that receive DVCR support to proceed to full submission to the ARC, will need to create Pure records to reflect the lead or non-lead status of their involvement.
If you have questions or need advice, the MRO would be happy to assist. Please contact us at mro-applications@monash.edu or phone 99059895.
Applications for DECRA 2019 are now open in RMS
1. Please find the Instructions to Applicants (HERE) and Funding Rules (HERE) for the Discovery Program attached.
Please note that there have been significant changes to proposals in RMS, particularly the ROPE section. Ensure you read ITA documents thoroughly before starting your proposal in RMS.
2. If you received your PhD prior to March 2013, you will need to apply for an eligibility extension. If you have not already, please contact the MRO as soon as possible.
3. ARC dates, internal deadlines and guidance documents for each scheme are available on the MRO intranet page here: http://www.intranet.monash/researchadmin/find-and-apply/standard-page-two
Please note that the internal deadline for forwarding your proposal to the MRO is 22/02/2018. Any queries regarding this scheme should be directed to mro-applications@monash.edu
Fellowship Opportunity: CSIRO Synthetic Biology Future Science Fellowships
Funding can be used to support the Fellow's salary and on-costs, reasonable operating costs, travel, equipment, and other expenses directly related to the Future Fellow's research
The CSIRO cash commitment must be at least met 1:1
Slides from the NHMRC ECF and Project Grant Eligibility and Compliance Seminars
For anyone interested in the ppt slides presented yesterday at the NHMRC ECF and Project Grant eligibility and compliance seminars, please find them attached HERE and HERE.
Eradicate Cancer 2018 – conference travel support opportunity (Entries Close 31st January)
To support Australian and New Zealand research in the fight against cancer, In Vitro Technologies is inviting Australian and New Zealand researchers to participate in a travel rewards programs.
To assist Eradicate Cancer 2018 delegates, In Vitro Technologies & ASN Events are offering 5 travel grants and Registrations
Enter your details on the form on this page for the chance to receive one of these generous travel grants and accelerate your research internationally!
The grants will include: 5 grants for travel expenses up to $500 AUD for Australian and New Zealand researchers including FREE conference registrations.
Labels: ECR news, travel grants
Victorian Cancer Agency 2018 Early Career Health Services Research Fellowships - Closing 31 January
Ai-Ming Wong's confirmation of candidature, "Clinical predictors of obstructive sleep apnoea resolution following surgical interventions", 23 January
All staff and students are invited to Ai-Ming Wong's PhD confirmation of candidature.
10-11am, 23 January, TRF seminar room 2
Presentation Title: Clinical predictors of obstructive sleep apnoea resolution following surgical interventions (upper airway surgery and surgical weight loss).
Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a highly prevalent condition and results in significant daytime sleepiness and fatigue, depression, increased risk of motor vehicle accidents, cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Only 50% of patients can tolerate the "gold" standard treatment, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Upper airway surgery is a critical alternative treatment with the potential to cure OSA but only does so in approximately 25% of patients. Similarly, surgical weight loss can resolve OSA, but its resolution cannot be predicted by their starting weight or post-intervention weight loss. The key problem is that current clinical tools cannot accurately predict treatment response for either approach. My research aims to use novel OSA physiological traits to predict treatment response to these interventions (upper airway surgery and surgical weight loss).
Supervisors: A/Professor Garun Hamilton, Dr Bradley Edwards, Dr Simon Joosten, A/Professor Darren Mansfield
Labels: ai-ming wong, Lectures & Seminars
Edmond Kwan's PhD confirmation, "Androgen receptor variants: predictive and prognostic biomarkers, and overcoming treatment resistance in advanced prostate cancer", 30 January
All staff and students are invited to Edmond Kwan's PhD confirmation
30 January, 11.30am - 1pm, Level 7 boardroom, TRF
Androgen receptor variants: predictive and prognostic biomarkers, and overcoming treatment resistance in advanced prostate cancer
The last several years has seen the approval of multiple new therapies for advanced prostate cancer, particularly targeting the androgen receptor (AR) axis. Despite improvements in clinical outcomes, resistance to these agents is inevitable. This project aims to characterise a predictive biomarker for resistance to AR-axis targeted agents, and determine alternative treatment approaches to overcome this resistance.
A/Prof Arun Azad, Dr Sarah To, Prof Eva Segelov
Labels: edmond kwan, Lectures & Seminars
FIJI BASICS WORKSHOP 1 Monash Micro Imaging at MHTP, 6 March
Registration is now open for MMI-MHTP's 1st FIJI Basics Workshop of 2018!
Tuesday 6th March, 9am-1pm, including morning tea break
Translational Research Facility, Level 4 Room 4R.03 (large meeting room)
In 2018 MMI-MHTP is once again running their popular FIJI Basics Image Analysis Workshop. This year the FIJI workshops will be split into 3 session: Basics, Intermediate and Advanced. Topics covered this year will vary slightly from last year's workshops.
This half day FIJI Basics workshop will provide a great introduction to working with FIJI analysis software to manage your images and create figures. Perfect for new students or anyone just starting out in imaging. The FIJI basics workshop will be run several times throughout 2018 to accommodate as many people as possible. Sessions are open to all staff and students.
You do not have to be a registered MMI user to attend.
Topics covered include: loading images and using the bio-formats importer, different file saving formats, basic image adjustments, channels and colours, setting scales and adding scale bars to images, ROIs and working with stacks.
To Register: Email your details sarah.creed@hudson.org.au.
Cost: $50 – which will be covered by MMI registration fees for users. Non-MMI users must provide a cost centre when registering.
Please ensure you include full details in your email: full name, department and group, position, best contact email and cost centre if not a registered MMI user. Registrations are open until Friday 23rd of February 2018, unless places are filled sooner.
Register now! Places are limited and these workshops filled fast in 2017!
Stayed tuned: More sessions for FIJI Basics, Intermediate & Advanced will be announced throughout the year
New printers and photocopiers being installed this week
The new multi-function printers are being rolled out this week.
• During installation, the old printer will be turned off whilst the new printer is installed and set up. It is expected that there will be no more than one hour's downtime for each printer.
• Staff are asked to redirect their printing during this time to other older working printers in the vicinity or to the new MPS printers as they are installed.
We will shortly send you instructions about using the new print process.
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Kristian Goree (kristian.goree@monash.edu).
For more information about the new print service go to the program website - https://sites.google.com/a/monash.edu/cards-print-pay/new-print-service-for-staff
or read the Print Principles. - https://sites.google.com/a/monash.edu/cards-print-pay/new-print-service-for-staff/print-principles
Hudson positions vacant
Research Assistant - Bioinformatics/Computational Biology
RSS Y (Full Time) - Sam Forster Closing Sunday 28 January.
Postdoctoral Scientist RES A (Full time) - Patrick Wester
Closing Sunday 28 January.
RES A (Full time) - Flora Wong
Closing Sunday 4 February 2018
Further information on the roles and PDs are available at http://hudson.org.au/careers/
Are you concerned about your cholesterol levels? Could you take a daily supplement?
Contact Margaret to find out more
Phone: 9902 4199
Or follow the link to our online screening survey:
https://tinyurl.com/MonashSeaweed
Two world-frst Aussie trials for new myeloma therapies
Associate Professor Jake Shortt in Myeloma News.
Read article here (page 3)
Labels: jake shortt, Media mentions, myeloma
Ricardo Costa published in Australian Triathlete
Labels: Media mentions, ricardo costa
Jake Shortt et al. published in Inflammation and Cancer.
Melissa Southey et al. published in Genome Biology.
Diana Egerton-Warburton et al. published in Addiction.
Melissa Southey et al. published in Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases.
Computed Tomographic Coronary Angiography–Derived Plaque Characteristics Predict Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events
Nitesh Nerlekar, Adam Brown et al. published in Circulation: Cardiovascular Imaging.
Labels: adam brown, dennis wong, francis Ha, hashrul rashid, james cameron, nitesh nerlekar, Publications
Jim Buttery et al. published in the Journal of the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society.
Labels: David Armstrong, Gillian Nixon, Lisa Walter, moya vandeleur, Publications, rosemary horne
Phil Bardin et al. published in the European Respiratory Journal.
Maryza Graham et al. published in Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease.
Labels: D Kotsanas, K Khailin, Maryza graham, Publications, Tony Korman, Vinita Rane
Progesterone concentrations and dosage with frozen embryo transfers - What's best?
Beverley Vollenhoven et al. published in the Australian & New Zealand Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology.
Labels: beverley vollenhoven, Luk Rombauts, M Healey, Publications, T Osianlis
Formyl peptide receptor-2 is decreased in fetal growth restriction and contributes to placental dysfunction
