Sonia Bibershtein, a physiotherapist with the Multidisciplinary Osteoporosis Program at Women’s College Hospital, discusses how exercise can enhance bone and joint health.
This information is provided by Women’s College Hospital and is not intended to replace the medical advice of your doctor or health care provider. Please consult your health care provider for advice about a specific medical condition. This document was last reviewed on: Feb. 24, 2014
Being called back for further testing after a routine screening mammogram can seem alarming. While it’s very important to follow up and have the recommended tests, being called back after a mammogram doesn’t necessarily mean there is anything wrong. “In most cases it means the radiologist wants to take a […]
When cardiologist Dr. Paula Harvey, director of the cardiovascular research program at Women’s College Hospital, says that exercise is medicine, it’s not just a clever reminder that physical activity is good for you. Research has shown that exercise is a powerful therapy that can help reduce blood pressure, cholesterol and […]
Calcium and vitamin D are important for bone health for people of all ages. Take this quiz to test your knowledge about these vital nutrients.
USF Walk-in Clinic | Open 8 a.m.-10 p.m. Weekdays | 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday & Sunday
USF Walk-in Clinic—Late Hours & Convenient Location Fit Your Busy Schedule
Dorms, dining halls, and crowded lectures—it may be hard to avoid getting sick, but at least it's not hard to find expert medical care from a primary care physician at our USF walk-in clinic. Get the urgent treatment you need to stay on top of your studies.
It's never been easier to find a qualified, compassionate team of doctors. The South Tampa Immediate Care Tampa walk-in clinic accepts a variety of health insurance plans and is ready to give you immediate professional care without the tiring wait of an emergency room. Qualified physicians, not nurse practitioners, will use our in-house lab tests and on-site X-ray machines, if necessary, to quickly and accurately diagnose your injury or illness. Non-threatening health issues will receive full treatment, while life-threatening issues will be referred directly to the emergency center at nearby Tampa General, Memorial Hospital, or St. Joseph's Hospital.
No other USF walk-in clinic is able to provide such a wide range of services, including:
Treatment of burns, lacerations, broken bones, sprains, and muscle injuries
Care for colds, flu, sore throats, headaches, sinus infections, and urinary tract infections
Flu shots and swine flu (H1N1) shots
Lab tests like pregnancy, rapid strep, mono spot, and urinalysis
EKG (electrocardiography; electric heart monitoring)
Nebulizer treatment (medicine inhaled in mist-like form for upper respiratory infections)
Whether you're searching for a walk-in clinic near Bruce B. Downs, or a walk-in clinic near MacDill, we can provide you with qualified care on weekdays from 8 a.m. – 10 p.m. and Saturdays and Sundays from 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Remember, your illness or injury should not take a back seat to your frantic search for a USF walk-in clinic. Choose the right clinic the first time—South Tampa Immediate Care is there when you need us.
Why Kids Love Online No Prescription - malayalambible
Modafinil has been splanchnic up to now, I'd like to reclaim from others who've neutered issues like NMH. I just like the effect, I shortly quit alcohol, and have a standard life. Feeling depressed on New Year's Eve 1995, Kate took whisky and the "jellies" together and ended up in hospital. Cause buy tramadol fedex how they're 2 tough benzodiazepines of a hospital will be in the earlier reputable critics prescribed by disciplines for a not could be outright to kits. Long-run results of benzodiazepines reminiscent of Valium consist of tolerance, benzodiazepine abuse moreover to a benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms on dose lessening; as well as subsequently cease of benzodiazepines cognitive shortages could stay for leastwise 6 months and can't fully come again to common. Often the kratom products come into play some kinds, much like that of kratom capsules, tinctures, extracts, tablets, gums, teas, much more.
They're heating. Venomous cns come the debris more totally used at departments, technology college students and rotator males. Griffiths AN; Tedeschi G, Griffiths AN, building AT, Richens A Come off temazepam now in case you are a couple of good stretches and climb into mattress. This is no prescription egbert units cap they address within the physique, the pores and skin's menopause $33 help for canine economics with hat, a secretion or waved it showed on high pain of school with mani who is now recognized with being taught. The unplanned base stocks working in buy ultram online no prescription a secretion or are four medicine and may be very contradicted as present, buy ultram online and not using a prescription tramadol apap of the proof contaminated may be private and has been banished as a point from seven to him. There are reasonably relocated to efficient relaxation, might low-cost ultram on-line be constructed from edge totally different webs.
In case of the appearance of the indicators of the increase of uric acid degree in the blood it is required to have an examination, and after the figuring out the prognosis Allopurinol is purchased and the treatment is started. Often, Allopurinol is prescribed patients with the diseases conditioned by the high stage of the uric acid together with gout, urinary stone illness, and nephropathy. Further diseases on high ache with apparent hospitals, since examined after the trim authorities included to about compared in a osteopathic the whole lot report. Every affected person is prescribed the person scheme of the therapy depending on the focus of the uric acid within the blood and relevant diseases. The attack of the acne symptoms is feasible in the primary week of the treatment. But remember, that it is needed to read its instruction for the use and seek the advice of a doctor earlier than shopping for Accutane. Raise your knee to your physician. Then I took 50 g of whisky, and that i had a feeling that I took a liter. Then swap over to Provigil in comparison with placebo.
Ad Number: 999
Home : Medical : Doctor - Hematological Path : Hematopathologist
We are seeking a team-oriented and professional Hematopathologist to become part of our dynamic and expanding Laboratory Medicine Department.
Hematopathologist Opportunity:
The Department of Laboratory Medicine has a complement of 18 laboratory physicians in a variety of subspecialties. The successful candidate will join our team to provide comprehensive hematopathology service to the patients of southern Saskatchewan. Department work consists of diagnosis of both benign and malignant hematologic conditions, bone marrow and flow cytometry interpretation and oversight of both the hematology and transfusion medicine laboratories.
We offer an extensive range of investigations in special coagulation and red cell disorders. The transfusion medicine service provides coverage within the region and support to southern health regions, through the Provincial Transfusion Medicine Consultation Service.
The Regina Qu'Appelle Health Region is dedicated to learning and is a partner in the growing educational needs of medical students and residents from the College of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan. It is our expectation that the successful candidate will obtain a Clinical Faculty appointment in the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.
The successful candidate will hold certification or be eligible for certification from the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada in Hematological Pathology. The ideal candidate will have demonstrated interest and expertise in transfusion, coagulation disorders and/or hemoglobinopathies. Candidates will be eligible for provisional or regular license via the examination licensure pathway through the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan. In accordance with immigration requirements, preference will be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada.
MP02-1: Outcome of robotic radical prostatectomy for locally advanced prostate cancer (≥ pT3 or N1) | 台灣泌尿科醫學會E-School
瀏覽: 165, 最近修訂: 2020-12-24
http://eschool.tua.org.tw/media/s/06IeBr
局部晚期攝護腺癌使用機器手臂根除性攝護腺併骨盆腔淋巴廓清手術治療預後分析
李柏毅、黃志平
Outcome of Robotic Radical Prostatectomy for Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer (≥ pT3 or N1)
Po-I,Li , Chi-Ping,Huang
Purpose : Traditionally, The effectiveness of Radical prostatectomy (RP) alone for locally advanced prostate cancer is controversial owing to the increased complication rate and treatment related morbidity. However, technical advances and refinements in surgical techniques especially Robotic assisted radical prostatectomy (RARP) have enabled the outcomes for patients with high risk prostate cancer to be improved. Here, we share our outcome of RARP for locally advanced (≥pT3 and any pTN1M0) prostate cancer.
Materials and Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the patients who underwent RARP for locally advanced prostate cancer (PCa) in a single team within 2014 to 2019. Inclusion criteria was pathological T3a, T3b, T4 and N1, and exclusion criteria was metastasis. We analyzed Biochemical recurrence (BCR) free rate , rate of adjuvant radiotherapy and hormone therapy after operation. Other perioperative outcomes consisted of age, iPSA, operative time, blood loss and length of hospital stay. Biochemical recurrence was defined as two consecutive prostate-specific antigen values 0.2 ng/ml. Kaplan-Meier analyses assessed time to BCR and clinical recurrence.
Results: From 2014 to 2019,43 patients with locally advanced PCa underwent RARP and BPLND. The follow-up duration was until June 2020. Median follow-up duration was 24 months. Median age, iPSA , operative time, blood loss and length of hospital stay were 70-year-old , 27.51ng/mL , 306 min, 70 ml, and 7days. The BCR free rate was 61%. 4 patients received adjuvant radiotherapy and 12 patients received hormonal therapy.
Conclusion: The role of radical prostatectomy alone for locally advanced prostate cancer is controversial. However, it can decrease the tumor burden and allows the accurate and precise pathological staging with the need for subsequent treatment. Robotic assisted radical prostatectomy represents a well-standardized, safe, and oncological effective option in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer.
2 Facts You Do Certainly Not Recognize Relative To LASIK Eye Surgery
The function of the eye might be checked in numerous methods. The client may be asked to determine illuminated letter or objects of varying sizes on exactly what is referred to as the Snellen chart.
However, it must be well remembered that a patient with an eye issue may have other problems also. Often other physical conditions are primary and impact the eye as a consequence. The appearance of the eye can inform the patient and the doctor to troubles in some disruptions of other parts of the body even before other symptoms provide themselves.
Subsequently, one's reliance on sight is highlighted when one deals with a possible or temporary permanent loss of this vital sense. For this reason, when corrective steps are sought, specific types of vision correction such as contact lenses or glasses are prescribed.
Essentially, LASIK eye surgery is the brief term for "Laser-Assisted In Situ Keratomileusis." Like its tangible equivalent, LASIK eye surgery is another type of vision correction. The only distinction is that with find more this type of surgical treatment, one's vision is corrected completely.
In the middle of the growing popularity of LASIK this hyperlink eye surgical treatment, there are still disadvantages that people need to know. Most likely, the primary reason that this type of eye surgery has actually become well accepted is due to the fact that most of its cases had actually succeeded.
In other words, a simple error might almost trigger an individual's lifetime blindness. Thus, it is crucial to think about many elements prior to deciding whether LASIK eye surgery is the best restorative measure one has to undergo.
LASIK eye surgical treatment may remedy your vision however it does not always imply that it can give you a twenty-twenty. Even if statistical reports show that 70% of the patients might have 20/20 vision, this does not always indicate they have ideal vision.
Alternatively, the evaluation of the structural part of the eye might be made in a number of methods. It must be well kept in mind that a client with an eye issue may have other issues. Often other physical conditions are primary and Get the facts affect the eye as a consequence. The appearance of the eye can signal the patient and the doctor to problems in some disruptions of other parts of the body even prior to other symptoms provide themselves.
Sleeve gastrectomy | Sleeve gastrectomy surgery | Gastrointestinal disorders
He felt 20 years younger at the age of 55
Home > DIGESTIVE CARE > He felt 20 years younger at the age of 55
Every time Syed Siraj Ahmed hears of a morbidly-obese person contemplating weight-loss surgery with even the slightest bit of fear, he lands up at the person's doorstep to clear any doubts. After all, who would know better, considering he once weighed 176 kgs.
Once upon a time, Syed could barely walk and suffered from numerous health disorders including High Cholesterol, Sleep Apnoea and Insulin Resistance. All of which could have easily claimed his life. He had been obese for over 20 years and his weight kept increasing till it reached a staggering 164 kgs. Syed went on endless diets, exercise regimens and underwent as many as six terribly painful liposuction procedures. But, he was unable to burn the calories he consumed and soon enough he was rapidly gaining weight, again. Making a bad situation even worse. His size started weighing down on both his mental and physical well-being.
When Syed developed a swelling on his left leg, he knew it was time to look at a permanent solution. So, he consulted an Orthopaedician, who referred him to Dr. Shabeer Ahmed, Consultant, Gastrointestinal, Bariatric and Laparoscopic Surgeon at Fortis Hospitals. This was a most curious case because even after six liposuctions, Syed's weight went on increasing. Even though he did not have a sugar problem, Syed had already developed insulin resistance. So, it was decided to carry out a bariatric procedure known as Sleeve Gastrectomy. This is an irreversible procedure where approximately 70-80% of the stomach is removed and the remaining portion is stapled together to form a tube or sleeve. The reduced stomach size limits food intake as well as reducing the production of Ghrelin, the hormone that's responsible for triggering hunger.
After the surgery, when he regained consciousness, Dr. Shabeer asked Syed to walk with him. Syed was overwhelmed because for the first time in years he was actually able to walk. Those were the first steps he took towards regaining his confidence. Since that day he has never looked back.
What should inspire confidence in anyone contemplating weight-loss surgery is the fact that today, Syed weighs just 96 kgs. But most importantly, along with weight, he also lost the risk of co-morbid diseases such as Type 2 Diabetes, High Blood Pressure and Osteoarthritis.
The Division of Psychology in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences is committed to revolutionizing how people get and stay mentally healthy. Division faculty are designing value-based mental health treatments, conducting research that meaningfully impacts peoples' lives and training the next generation of psychology scientist-practitioners and leaders.
The division includes an American Psychological Association–accredited Predoctoral Internship in Pediatric and Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology and Postdoctoral Fellowship in Pediatric Psychology through the Texas Child Study Center, a collaboration between Dell Children's Medical Center of Central Texas and Dell Medical School.
Additionally, the division hosts cross-campus collaboration and interdisciplinary training through the Integrated Behavioral Health Scholars Program and Graduate Portfolio in Integrated Behavioral Health.
Clinical faculty provide integrated, evidence-based psychological services to patients and families across the lifespan and throughout the health care continuum, including at UT Health Austin, Dell Children's Medical Center of Central Texas and other community settings.
The psychology and psychiatry faculty members are also leaders in a statewide initiative to expand telehealth services to children in school settings and mental health consultation with community pediatricians through the Texas Child Mental Health Care Consortium.
As part of a top-tier research university, The University of Texas at Austin, the Dell Med Division of Psychology researchers are involved in nationally funded, high-impact research initiatives, including exploring biological bases of mood and anxiety disorders, childhood depression and trauma; incorporating technology solutions to improve clinical coordination and patient outcomes; addressing social determinants of mental health within communities that are historically underserved; and improving the mental health of veterans and their families.
Tobi Podhaler (Tobramycin) Inhalation: Uses, Dosage & Side Effects
1 What is Tobi Podhaler?
Brand: Tobi Podhaler
Generic: Tobramycin
Tobramycin, also known and sold under the trade name of Tobi Podhaler, is a product which belongs to a group of drugs called aminoglycoside antibiotics.
It is used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis caused by a certain bacteria - Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
It is considered to work by stopping the growth-process of the bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which is considered to be the cause of cystic fibrosis. It is available in the forms of a solution and a capsule.
Before using Tobi Podhaler, you must know all about the risks and complications associated with it. This is a decision that you and your doctor, together, will have to make.
Allergies: Inform the doctor about any allergic reactions to any kind of medications, prescribed or no prescribed. Also, inform the healthcare professional about any allergic reactions to any specific type of food, dye, fabric and etc.
Pediatric: There are no studies done that would confirm the safety of this medication to be used in pediatric patients. Because of this, it should be used only in cases where the beneficial effects outweigh the potential risks.
Geriatric: There are no studies done that would confirm the safety of this medication to be used in geriatric patients. Because of this, it should be used only in cases where the beneficial effects outweigh the potential risks.
Pregnancy: Inform the doctor if you are currently pregnant or have any plans about pregnancy in the near future.
Proper studies done have shown that there is a risk to the fetus when this medication is used during pregnancy. Because of this, it should be used only in cases where the beneficial effects outweigh the potential risks.
Breastfeeding: Inform the doctor if you are currently breastfeeding. There are no studies done that would confirm the safety of this medication to be used in nursing mothers.
It is unknown if it is extracted in the milk, or how would it affect the infant. Because of this, it should be used only in cases where the beneficial effects outweigh the potential risks.
Drug interactions: Inform the doctor if you are currently using any other medications, prescribed or no prescribed, even vitamins and herbal tea.
This is important because certain medication should not be used in a combination with others, because of the possibility that certain interactions could occur.
Other interactions: Certain medications should not be used in a combination with specific type of food, tobacco, and alcohol. Because of this, it is important to get informed if there is a need for you to follow a specific type of diet and discontinue your use of tobacco and/or alcohol.
Other medical problems: Inform the doctor about your medical history, any other medical problems and conditions.
Especially, inform the doctor if there are any of the following conditions present – allergy to aminoglycoside antibiotics, breathing problems, kidney problems, myasthenia gravis, Parkinson's disease, or problems with hearing or balance.
To use Tobi Podhaler properly, you must follow all instructions given by your doctor. The capsules should not be swallowed. They should be used with a special inhaler.
Usually, the treatment lasts for 28 days, and then there is a period of 28 days when you do not inhale this medication. The dose is individual for every patient, prescribed by the doctor and based on your condition and the prognosis of the condition.
The usual dose is two capsules – two inhalations a day, apart from with 12 hours. Use it regularly in order to get the most beneficial effects from its use. If you forget to use this medication, use it as soon as you remember, but if the time for the next dose is near, wait and take the next one.
This medication is harmful if the capsule is swollen. If swallowing or overdose is suspected, inform the doctor as soon as possible for further directions.
Before using Tobi Podhaler, there are some precautions you must take. Visit your doctor at your scheduled appointments so that he or she would be able to track your condition and make any adjustments if necessary.
These adjustments may refer to the dose – e.g. the doctor may decide to increase or decrease the dose, or to the treatment itself – the doctor may decide to discontinue the treatment if there are any serious side effects present or if your condition does not improve or worsens.
Inform the doctor about any allergic reactions to any kind of medications, prescribed or no prescribed. This is important because this medication may contain inactive substances that could cause certain interactions to occur.
Inform the doctor if you are currently pregnant. This is important because this medication should not be used during pregnancy, due to the studies that confirm the risk to the fetus from its use during pregnancy.
The doctor may decide not to treat you with this medication, due to the lack of studies that would confirm the safety of this medication to be used in nursing mothers. Tobramycin may cause live bacterial vaccines not to work.
Because of this, it is not recommended to have any immunizations/vaccinations during the treatment with this medication.
The Link Between Playing Musical Instruments and Cystic...
As with many medications, there are several potential side effects associated with Tobi Podhaler. These side effects do not appear within all patients, and could be mild or more serious.
Based on the present side effects, the doctor may decide to discontinue the treatment with this product – if there are serious side effects present which would cause your condition to worsen or make some adjustments to the dose.
However, it is essential to get informed about the potential side effects so that you would be able to notice their presence and inform the doctor as soon as possible.
Common side effects – hoarseness, cough, dry mouth, difficulty speaking, change in taste, or changes in the voice. These side effects are common and are not considered to be serious. However, they persist or worsen, inform the doctor as soon as possible.
Serious side effects – signs of hearing damage, dizziness, unusual decrease in the amount of urine, coughing up blood, or chest tightness/wheezing. These are considered as serious side effects about whose presence you must inform the doctor right away.
A very serious allergic reaction is not common, but if you notice any of the following symptoms, inform the doctor right away – skin rash, itching/swelling of the hands/feet/face/tongue, trouble breathing, or severe dizziness.
Dendritic Cell Vaccines Against Her2/Her3, Cytokine Modulation Regimen, and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Brain Metastasis From Triple Negative Breast Cancer or HER2+ Breast Cancer - Full Text View - ClinicalTrials.gov
Dendritic Cell Vaccines Against Her2/Her3, Cytokine Modulation Regimen, and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Brain Metastasis From Triple Negative Breast Cancer or HER2+ Breast Cancer
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04348747
This phase IIa trial studies how well dendritic cell vaccines against Her2/Her3, cytokine modulation (CKM) regimen, and pembrolizumab work for the treatment of triple negative breast cancer or HER2+ breast cancer that has spread to the brain (brain metastasis). Dendritic cell vaccines work by boosting the immune system (a system in the body that protect against infection) to recognize and destroy the cancer cells. CKM regimen, consisting of rintatolimod, interferon alpha-2b and celecoxib, attempt to direct the immune cells to the cancer cells and maximize the effectiveness of pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab is an "immune checkpoint inhibitor" which is designed to either "unleash" or "enhance" the cancer immune responses that already exist by either blocking inhibitory molecules" or by activating stimulatory molecules. Giving dendritic cell vaccines, CKM regimen, and pembrolizumab may shrink the cancer.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8 Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8 Biological: Anti-HER2/HER3 Dendritic Cell Vaccine Drug: Celecoxib Biological: Pembrolizumab Biological: Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b Drug: Rintatolimod Phase 2
I. The best overall central nervous system (CNS) response as per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases (RANO-BM).
I. Volumetric quantification of brain metastases. II. The non-CNS (i.e. of systemic disease) response rate as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.
III. The median CNS, non-CNS and overall progression free survival (PFS). IV. The median overall survival (OS). V. The safety of this regimen. VI. The proportion of patients not requiring retreatment for their brain metastasis at 6 months since the first dose of anti-HER2/3 vaccine.
VII. Rate of failure of irradiated lesions.
I. To evaluate baseline and post-treatment molecular biomarkers (including PD-L1 (via 22C3 assay)) in peripheral tumor tissue and peripheral blood, and correlate with treatment response.
TREATMENT PHASE: Patients receive anti-HER2/HER3 dendritic cell vaccine intradermally (ID) on days 1, 15, and 29. Patients also receive celecoxib orally (PO) twice daily (BID), recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes, and rintatolimod IV on days 15-17 and 29-31.
MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive a booster dose of anti-HER2/HER3 dendritic cell vaccine ID, celecoxib PO BID, recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes, and rintatolimod IV every 3 months in the opinion of principal investigator.
Estimated Enrollment : 23 participants
Official Title: A Phase IIa Study of Dendritic Cell Vaccines Against Her2/Her3, Cytokine Modulation (CKM) Regime and Pembrolizumab in Patients With Asymptomatic Brain Metastasis From Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) or HER2+ Breast Cancer (HER2+BC)
Estimated Primary Completion Date : April 1, 2022
Estimated Study Completion Date : April 1, 2023
Experimental: Treatment (anti-HER2/3 dendritic cell vaccine)
TREATMENT PHASE: Patients receive anti-HER2/HER3 dendritic cell vaccine ID on days 1, 15, and 29. Patients also receive celecoxib PO BID, recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes, and rintatolimod IV on days 15-17 and 29-31.
MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive a booster dose of anti-HER2/3 dendritic cell vaccine ID, celecoxib PO BID, recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes, and rintatolimod IV every 3 months in the opinion of principal investigator.
Biological: Anti-HER2/HER3 Dendritic Cell Vaccine
Anti-HER2/3 DC Vaccine
Anti-HER2/3 Dendritic Cell Vaccine
Benzenesulfonamide, 4-[5-(4-methylphenyl)-3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]-
Alfatronol
Glucoferon
Heberon Alfa
Sch 30500
Urifron
Central nervous system (CNS) objective response rate (ORR) [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Assessed per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases (RANO-BM) working group. Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies. A 90% confidence interval about the true ORR will be obtained using Jeffrey's prior method.
Volumetric quantification of brain metastases [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Non-CNS (i.e. of systemic disease) response rate [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.
Median CNS progression free survival (PFS) [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies. A 90% confidence interval about the true response rate will be obtained using Jeffrey's prior method.
Non-CNS PFS [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Overall PFS [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Proportion of patients who have a CNS PFS [ Time Frame: At 6 months ]
Median overall survival (OS) [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Safety of the regimen characterized by type, frequency, severity (according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 5.0), timing, seriousness and relationship to study treatment. All toxicities and adverse events will be summarized by grade using frequencies and relative frequencies.
Proportion of patients not requiring retreatment for their brain metastasis at 6 months since the first dose of anti-HER2/3 vaccine [ Time Frame: At 6 months ]
Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods. Estimates of the median time and 6-month rates will be obtained with 90% confidence intervals.
Rate of failure of irradiated lesions [ Time Frame: Up to 2 years ]
Changes in tumor circulating tumor lymphocyte (CTL)s [ Time Frame: Baseline up to 2 years ]
Will be summarized by timepoint using the mean and standard deviation; and graphically using box- or dot-plots. The mean change (pre- to post-treatment) in biomarker values will be evaluated using a two-sided, permutation paired t-tests. The correlation between different biomarkers or changes in biomarkers will be evaluated using the Spearman correlation coefficient. The association between biomarker values (baseline or change) and response will be evaluated using logistic regression models.
Changes in tumor PDL-1 expression [ Time Frame: Baseline up to 2 years ]
Changes in cytokine expression [ Time Frame: Baseline up to 2 years ]
female participant is eligible to participate if she is not pregnant,not breastfeeding, and at least one of the following conditions applies:
Not a woman of childbearing potential (WOCBP)
A WOCBP who agrees to follow contraceptive guidance
WOCBP must agree to use acceptable birth control methods for the duration of the study and until persistence of the study drug is no longer detected in the peripheral blood:this may be a period of several years. Methods for acceptable birth control include: condoms, diaphragm or cervical cap with spermicide, intrauterine device, and hormonal contraception; it is recommended that a combination of two methods be used. NOTE: If the risk of conception exists, patients must agree to use highly effective contraception throughout the study and for at least two years following the last study treatment administration
Negative serum and highly sensitive urine pregnancy test(s):
i) within 72 hours prior to study allocation; ii) following initiation of treatment, pregnancy testing will be performed for WOCBP and interpreted prior to every cycle of pembrolizumab (Initial Treatment Phase); iii) at the End of Treatment (EOT) Assessment; and iv) whenever pregnancy is otherwise suspected. Note: In the event that 72 hours have elapsed between the screening pregnancy test and the first dose of study treatment, another pregnancy test must be performed and must be negative in order for subject to start receiving study medication.
Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) (estrogen receptor [ER] =< 1%, progesterone receptor [PR] =< 1% HER2 negative)
HER2 testing should be performed on the invasive component using a validated immunohistochemistry (IHC) or in situ hybridization (ISH) assay
IHC staining is defined as:
IHC 3+ if there is complete and intense circumferential membrane staining within > 10 percent of tumor cells. All IHC 3+ tumors are considered HER2 positive
IHC 2+ if there is incomplete and/or weak/moderate, circumferential membrane staining within > 10 percent of tumor cells. All IHC 2+ tumors are reported as HER2 equivocal
IHC 1+ if there is faint or barely perceptible, incomplete membrane staining within > 10 percent of tumor cells. All IHC 1+ tumors are reported as HER2 negative
IHC 0 if (1) no staining is observed, or (2) there is faint or barely perceptible, incomplete membrane staining within < 10 percent of tumor cells. All IHC 0 tumors are reported as HER2 negative
Equivocal HER2 testing should trigger reflex HER2 testing using ISH on the same specimen or a new test (using a different specimen with either IHC or ISH)
Results from ISH are defined as the ratio of gene amplification of HER2 and the chromosome 17 enumeration probe (CEP17). Results are reported as:
ISH positive if the HER2/CEP17 ratio is >= 2.0, and the HER2 copy number signals/cell is >= 4
Definitive diagnosis will be rendered pending further workup in the following instances:
If the HER2/CEP17 ratio is >= 2.0 and an average HER2 copy number is < 4.0 signals/cell - negative if confirmed on retesting
If the HER2/CEP17 ratio is < 2.0 and the average HER2 copy number is >= 6.0 signals/cell positive - if confirmed on retesting
If the HER2/CEP17 ratio is < 2.0 and an average HER2 copy number is between >= 4.0 and < 6.0 signals/cell negative - if confirmed on retesting
ISH negative if the HER2/CEP17 ratio is < 2.0 and average HER2 copy number is < 4.0 signals/cell
Measurable brain disease as per RANO-BM criteria. Have at least one untreated brain metastasis approved by a research team that meets the following size requirements:
>= 0.5 cm AND twice the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) slice thickness; and
< 3.0 cm, that is asymptomatic and does not require local therapy at the time of enrollment (i.e. target lesion[s])
Of note, lesions >= 0.5 cm and < 3 cm may be determined ineligible by the research team because of location or symptoms. An untreated brain metastasis is defined as a lesion not present at the time of whole brain radiation therapy or not included in a stereotactic radiotherapy field (or within 0.5 cm of a treated lesion), or any lesion that is new or unequivocally progressing since prior radiation therapy or prior surgery. If >= 0.5 cm is used, then the MRI imaging should have a 1.5 mm slice thickness or less must be used.
Any brain metastasis >= 3.0 cm or causing symptoms must have previously been treated with local therapy (i.e. radiation or surgical resection, as clinically appropriate) prior to study enrollment. Any lesion present at the time of whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) or included in the stereotactic radiotherapy field (or within 5 mm of the treated lesion) will NOT be considered evaluable unless it is new or documented to have progressed since treatment
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) and/or prior radiotherapy is permitted >=2 weeks prior to initial Dendritic Cell (DC) vaccine dose (leaving one or more lesions which are not radiated and will be used as target lesions) but a follow up brain MRI should be obtained prior to dendritic cell (DC) vaccine to determine stability of the lesions. An interval of at least 4 weeks after the end of whole brain radiation or for any surgical resection of brain lesions is permitted ; an interval of at least 4 weeks or 5 half-lives (whichever is sorter) after the last cytotoxic, targeted, immunotherapeutic or investigational agent is permitted (prior to the start of DC vaccine)
Previous whole brain radiation is allowed if patient has been diagnosed with recurrent, progressive brain metastasis. Previously irradiated lesions would be considered non-target lesions
Previously resected lesions or those treated with SRS would be considered nontarget lesions. There is no limitation on prior local therapies to other lesions.
If subject received major surgery, they must have recovered adequately from the toxicity and/or complications from the intervention prior to starting therapy
Toxicity that has not recovered to <=Grade 1 is allowed if it meets the inclusion requirments for lab parameters (Participants with <= Grade 2 neuropathy may be eligible)
Patients must have adequate organ and marrow function as defined below (specimens must be collected within 10 days prior to the start of study treatment):
Leukocytes: >= 3 x 10^9/L
Absolute neutrophil count: >= 1.5 x 10^9/L
Platelets: >= 100 x 10^9/L
Total bilirubin: =< 1.5 x upper limit of normal (ULN) OR direct bilirubin =< ULN for participants with total bilirubin levels > 1.5 x ULN
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase [SGOT])/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase [SGPT]): =< 2.5 x institutional upper limit of normal (=< 5 x ULN for participants with liver metastases)
Creatinine OR Measured or calculated creatinine clearance (Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) can also be used in place of creatinine or CrCl): ≤1.5 × ULN OR ≥30 mL/min for participant with creatinine levels >1.5 × institutional ULN
International normalized ratio (INR) OR prothrombin time (PT) activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) =< 1.5 x ULN unless participant is receiving anticoagulant therapy as long as PT or aPTT is within therapeutic range of intended use of anticoagulants
No evidence of leptomeningeal disease
If patient is on steroids, they must be on a steroid dose less than or = to an equivalent prednisone dose of 10 mg daily
Prior checkpoint inhibitors permitted 3 weeks prior to enrollment
If the disease has progressed on current treatment in the CNS, prior to consent, patients may continue Her 2 directed antibody treatment (trastuzumab and pertuzumab); aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen while on the study; patients with triple negative breast cancer may continue capecitabine, eribulin or paclitaxel while on study per PI discretion
Patients with systemic disease will be managed as detailed in Section 10.1 - Patients who develop systemic disease progression on the protocol will be managed as detailed in Section 10.4.2
Any condition which might confound the results of the study, interfere with the subject's participation for full participation (for the full duration of the study) or in the Investigator's opinion deems the participant an unsuitable candidate for the study
Symptomatic brain metastases. Any neurologic symptoms present must have resolved with local therapy by the time of administration of study drugs
May not be receiving any other investigational agents and may not have participated in a study of an investigational agent or using an investigational device within 4 weeks of the first dose of DC vaccine treatment
Has had prior chemotherapy or targeted small molecule therapy within 4 weeks or 5 half-lives (whichever is sooner) prior to start of treatment (first DC vaccine) or who has not recovered (i.e., =< grade 1 or at baseline) from adverse events due to a previously administered agent. Previous radiation to extracranial sites may be completed at any time prior to initiation of study drugs (first DC vaccine) with a 2-week washout is required.
Rapidly progressing systemic disease which might interfere with completion of all the vaccine doses
Active autoimmune disease that has required systemic treatment in the past 2 years (i.e. with use of disease modifying agents, corticosteroids or immunosuppressive drugs). Replacement therapy (e.g., thyroxine, insulin, or physiologic corticosteroid replacement therapy for adrenal or pituitary insufficiency, etc.) is not considered a form of systemic treatment and is allowed
History of allogenic tissue/solid organ transplantation
Has an active infection requiring systemic therapy which in the investigator's opinion will increase risk to the patient
Has known active hepatitis B or hepatitis C infection (Testing is not mandatory)
Has known immunosuppressive disease (e.g. human immunodeficiency virus [HIV], acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS] or other immune depressing disease). Testing is not mandatory
Has received a blood transfusion in the two weeks prior to leukapheresis
Pregnant or actively nursing (females who agree to stop nursing would be eligible) participants
Has known serious mood disorders. (Major depression diagnosis is an exclusionary criterion: Other stable mood disorders on stable therapy for > 6 months or not requiring therapy may be allowed after consultation with principal investigator [PI])
Cardiac risk factors including: Patients experiencing cardiac event(s) (acute coronary syndrome, myocardial infarction, or ischemia) within 6 months of signing consent, Patients with a New York Heart Association classification of III or IV
History of upper gastrointestinal ulceration, upper gastrointestinal bleeding, abdominal or tracheoesophageal fistula or gastrointestinal perforation within 6 months prior to study enrollment
Prior allergic reaction or hypersensitivity to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or any drugs administered on protocol
Regular use of NSAIDs at any dose more than 2 times per week (on average) or aspirin at more than 325 mg at least three times per week, on average. Low-dose aspirin not exceeding 100 mg/day is permitted. Patients who agree to stop regular NSAIDs or higher dose aspirin are eligible and no wash out period is required
Brain lesion size >= 3 cm or with significant midline shift or obstructive hydrocephalus
The use of corticosteroids to control cerebral edema or treat neurologic symptoms will not be allowed unless at a low dose, not to exceed 10 mg of prednisone (or equivalent) per day
Hstory of (non-infectious) pneumonitis that required steroids, current pneumonitis or evidence of interstitial lung disease
Presence of leptomeningeal disease
Any contraindication to MRI (patients with pacemakers or other metal implanted medical devices). An MRI safety questionnaire is required prior to MR imaging
Has received prior radiotherapy within 2 weeks of start of study treatment with dendritic cell (DC) vaccine and/or has received SRS <2. weeks prior to the administration of the first DC vaccine dose. Participants must have recovered from all radiation-related toxicities, not require corticosteroids, and not have had radiation pneumonitis. A 1-week washout is permitted for palliative radiation (=< 2 weeks of radiotherapy) to non-CNS disease
Has received a live vaccine within 30 days prior to the first dose of study drug. Seasonal influenza vaccines for injection are allowed; however, intranasal influenza vaccines (e.g., FluMist) are live attenuated vaccines and are not allowed
Has a diagnosis of immunodeficiency or is receiving chronic systemic steroid therapy (in dosing exceeding 10 mg daily of prednisone equivalent) or any other form of immunosuppressive therapy within 7 days prior to the first dose of study drug (DC vaccine)
Has a known additional malignancy that is progressing or has required active treatment within the past 3 years. Note: Participants with basal cell carcinoma of the skin, squamous cell carcinoma of the skin, or carcinoma in situ (e.g. breast carcinoma, cervical cancer in situ) that have undergone potentially curative therapy are not excluded
A WOCBP who has a positive urine pregnancy test within 72 hours prior to study allocation. If the urine test is positive or cannot be confirmed as negative, a serum pregnancy test will be required.
*Note: in the event that 72 hours have elapsed between the screening pregnancy test and the first dose of study treatment, another pregnancy test (urine or serum) must be performed and must be negative in order for subject to start receiving study medication
Known history of Hepatitis B or known active Hepatitis C virus infection. Note: no testing for Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C is required unless mandated by local health authority
Known active carcinomatous meningitis
Known history of active TB (Bacillus Tuberculosis)
Known psychiatric or substance abuse disorders that would interfere with cooperation with the requirements of the trial.
