Privacy Policy — RM Fitness
RM Fitness is the trading name of RM Fitness Ltd. We take your privacy seriously and as such have laid out the following privacy notice in line with the General Data Protection Regulation 2018.
Any questions relating to our privacy policy or this notice should be directed in writing to RM Fitness, you can find our contact details at rmfitness.co.uk/home/contact or you can email us at info@rmfitness.co.uk
We advise Members and visitors to ensure that if they are to take photographs or videos on the premises, that no other individual appears in the background of the footage. We do occasionally arrange filming or photographs for use on our Social Media or other communications. All due care will be taken to ensure that no one appears in filming or content created by us without giving recorded, active consent to be included. If you find you do appear in error, and would like an image or video to be removed from our Social Media channels or communication please contact us immediately.
We aim to keep our information about you as accurate as possible. If you would like to review or change the details you have supplied to us, you may do so at any time by contacting us.
This privacy policy outlines the personal information about you that Ultrasun International b.v. collects, uses and stores via our website ultrasun.nl and our other brands (collectively, our “website”). Specifically, this privacy policy provides you with details about the personal information we collect from you, how we use your personal information, and your rights regarding the personal information we hold about you.
Please read this privacy policy carefully – by accessing or browsing the website or by signing up as a user, you confirm that you have read and understood this privacy policy in its entirety. Please be aware that when you follow a link to another site, this privacy policy does not apply, and we have no control over what information they collect from you. This privacy policy implements the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), a data protection law that applies where we process personal information of anyone located in the European Economic Area (“EEA”).
section 1 – what do we do with your information?
When you visit our website, we collect the personal information you give us such as your name, address and email address.
When you browse our site, we also automatically receive your computer’s internet protocol (IP) address to provide us with information that helps us learn about your browser and operating system.
Email Marketing: With your permission, we may send you emails about our site, new products and other updates.
section 2 – cookies and third-party services
Our website also uses cookies to collect information about you and to distinguish you from other users of our site. Cookies are small text files which are placed on your browser by our website. When you visit our website, the cookies allow our website to recognize you and your browser and allow your use of the website and its functionalities to be tracked.
Cookies are useful because they help us make your Ultrasun experience more enjoyable. They help us to monitor the way in which our website is used and allow us to recognize your device and other vital information to tailor your experience of ultrasun.nl. We do not use cookie technology to collect personal information about you.
Also, our website works with third parties, such as Google Analytics, who use cookies to collect information when you visit our website and third party sites about your browsing activities, such as IP address and user search history data.
section 3 – consent
How do you get my consent?
When you provide us with personal information, we imply that you consent to our collecting it and using it for that specific reason only.
If we ask for your personal information for a secondary reason, like marketing, we will either ask you directly for your expressed consent or provide you with an opportunity to say no.
We may disclose your personal information if we are required by law to do so.
Data Retention
Subject to the rights of users located in the EEA as described below, we will retain information (including personal information) for as long as we need to use it for the reasons set out in this Privacy Policy and will delete it after that time except where we need to keep any personal information to comply with our legal obligations, resolve disputes, or enforce our agreements.
In some circumstances, we may anonymize your personal data (so that it can no longer be associated with you) for research or statistical purposes in which case we may use this information indefinitely without further notice to you.
How do I withdraw my consent?
If after you opt-in, you change your mind, you may withdraw your consent for us to contact you, for the continued collection, use or disclosure of your information, at any time, by contacting us at info@ultrasunusa.com or mailing us at: Ultrasun International b.v. Granaatstraat 6, Hengelo, OV, 7554TR, Netherlands.
section 4 – security
To protect your personal information, we take reasonable precautions and follow industry best practices to make sure it is not inappropriately lost, misused, accessed, disclosed, altered or destroyed.
If you provide us with your credit card information, the information is encrypted using secure socket layer technology (SSL) and stored with an AES-256 encryption. Although no method of transmission over the Internet or electronic storage is 100% secure, we follow all PCI-DSS requirements and implement additional generally accepted industry standards.
section 5 – changes to this privacy policy
We reserve the right to modify this privacy policy at any time, so please review it frequently. Changes and clarifications will take effect immediately upon their posting on the website. If we make material changes to this policy, we will notify you here that it has been updated, so that you are aware of what information we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we use and/or disclose it.
If our store is acquired or merged with another company, your information may be transferred to the new owners so that we may continue to sell products to you.
questions and contact information
If you would like to: access, correct, amend or delete any personal information we have about you, register a complaint, or simply want more information contact our Privacy Compliance via email: info@ultrasunusa.com or mailing us at: Ultrasun International b.v. Granaatstraat 6, Hengelo, OV, 7554TR, Netherlands.
Ultrasun International
Since 1974 Ultrasun International has become a staple in the Fitness, Beauty, and Health community. Thanks to our many partners and our Recharge Yourself message, Ultrasun has become a pioneer in the responsible tanning movement.
Tanning Supplies Unlimited
Tanning Supplies Unlimited (TSU) offers you more than 160 years of experience and unrivaled customer service to help salon owners. Now with our collaboration with Ultrasun, we once again bring quality and expertise to your doorstep.
The BA.4 and BA.5 sub-variants of Omicron are estimated to make up about 8.3% and 13.3% of the coronavirus variants in the United States as of June 11, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Tuesday.
The two fast-spreading sublineages were added to the World Health Organization's monitoring list in March and have also been designated as variants of concern in Europe.
The European Union's disease prevention agency said on Monday the new subvariants are spreading more quickly than other variants, which could lead to more hospitalizations and deaths as they become dominant in the continent.
"I'm very concerned," said Dr. Gregory Poland, head of Mayo Clinic's vaccine research group in Rochester, Minnesota, adding that data from South Africa shows the subvariants are better at circumventing immunity provided through vaccines and previous infections.
Vaccines or previous infection may provide a benefit against death or severe illness, but BA.4 and BA.5 could potentially cause a surge in infections during the summer, just as kids go back to school and people's second booster may have worn off, he said.
BA.4 made up 5.4% of the variants in the United States for the week of June 5, according to CDC estimates, while BA.5 made up 7.7% of the variants.
The seven-day moving average of U.S. COVID-19 cases stood at 105,615 as of June 11, up 6.7% from a week earlier.
(This story corrects quote in paragraph 5 to say BA.4 and BA.5 could potentially cause a surge in infections, not death and severe illness, during the summer.)
Mycophenolate Mofetil | Encyclopedia.com
Mycophenolate mofetil (brand name Cell Cept) is a drug that has been shown to inhibit tumor growth in rodents, and that may prove useful in treating tumors in humans.
In August 2000, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the use of mycophenolate mofetil in patients undergoing liver transplants, and the drug is used primarily to ease the acceptance of a transplanted organ by a recipient. The drug makes acceptance of the transplanted organ more likely because it prevents the recipient from mounting an immune response to the organ, or treating it like a foreign invader. The drug also seems to have the ability to inhibit tumor growth, and may prove effective in treating certain kinds of cancer.
In laboratory studies, mycophenolate mofetil has inhibited tumor growth in cancers of the pancreas, colon, lung, and blood. The value of the drug for anticancer therapy is still being evaluated.
Mycophenolate mofetil suppresses, or prevents activity of, cells in the lymphatic system, both T cells and B cells. Under normal circumstances, T cells mount an immune response by reacting directly with foreign materials in the body and B cells release compounds that attack foreign materials. But during a transplant, T cells and B cells can cause a reaction that leads to the rejection of a donor organ.
The drug is given orally and by intravenous line. Dosages given for cancer therapy are experimental. To prevent immune response during organ transplants, the drug is dispensed in capsules of 250 mg, tablets of 500 mg, and by intravenous line in doses of 500 mg. Time intervals between dosages are determined according to how the drug is broken down once in a patient.
Mycophenolate mofetil is known to cause or may cause lymphomas and skin cancer. The benefit of taking the drug must be weighed against the increased risk of the cancers it causes.
In addition to increasing the risk of lymphomas and skin cancer, mycophenolate mofetil may cause a number of other unwanted reactions. They include dizziness, headache, trembling, as well as pain in the chest, swelling (edema), and high blood pressure (hypertension). Many digestive tract upsets from constipation to diarrhea to vomiting are also possible side effects. There is also a chance of hemorrhage, or uncontrolled bleeding in the digestive tract.
Taking the drug is likely to make oral contraceptives ineffective and another form of birth control should be used. Stomach medications that contain magnesium and aluminum hydroxides, such as antacids, can block the uptake of mycophenolate mofetil across the gut. They should be avoided. As always, the physician in charge of the care plan should be told of every drug a patient is taking so that the potential for interactions can be avoided. The drug is considered superior to some others used as a suppressant of the immune response in transplants because it does not show as many drug interactions as other drugs do. But the short list of interactions might be in part related to its limited time on the market, and interactions that are yet unidentified.
—A type of cell in the lymphatic system that contributes to immunity by releasing compounds that attack foreign bodies, such as bacteria and viruses.
—A tube that is inserted directly into a vein to carry medicine directly to the blood stream, bypassing the stomach and other digestive organs that might alter the medicine.
—Metric measure that equals 2.2 pounds.
—The system that collects and returns fluid in tissues to the blood vessels and produces defensive agents for fighting infection and invasion by foreign bodies.
—One-thousandth of a gram, and there are one thousand grams in a kilogram. A gram is the metric measure that equals about 0.035 ounces.
—Altered, not normal.
"Mycophenolate Mofetil ." Gale Encyclopedia of Cancer. . Encyclopedia.com. 26 Nov. 2021 <https://www.encyclopedia.com>.
"Mycophenolate Mofetil ." Gale Encyclopedia of Cancer. . Encyclopedia.com. (November 26, 2021). https://www.encyclopedia.com/medicine/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/mycophenolate-mofetil
"Mycophenolate Mofetil ." Gale Encyclopedia of Cancer. . Retrieved November 26, 2021 from Encyclopedia.com: https://www.encyclopedia.com/medicine/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/mycophenolate-mofetil
Tacrolimus , Definition Tacrolimus belongs to a group of medicines known as immunosuppressive agents. It is used primarily to lower the body's natural immunity in… Imatinib Mesylate , Definition Imatinib mesylate is an enzyme inhibitor used for cancer therapy. Imatinib mesylate is also known as STI571 and is sold under the brand na… Interleukin-2 , Definition Aldesleukin is interleukin, or specific kind of biological response modifier, that is used to treat metastatic renal cell carcinoma (a for… Fluorouracil , Definition Fluorouracil is a medication that kills cancer cells. It is also known as 5-FU or 5-fluourouracil, and as the brand name Adrucil. Purpose… Pentostatin , Pentostatin Definition Pentostatin is an anticancer (antineoplastic) agent belonging to the class of drugs called antimetabolites (compounds that pre… Rituximab , Definition Rituximab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that selectively binds to CD20, a protein found on the surface of normal and malignant B cell…
New Primary Care Suite Opened - InterCommunity
New Primary Care Suite Opened
InterCommunity, Inc. is pleased to announce the opening of a brand new primary care suite at their health clinic located at 281 Main Street, East Hartford. Renovations began in October, almost a year after InterCommunity began offering same-day primary care services to every member of the community who walks in, regardless of their life situation or ability to pay. Within a year's time, the demand for care had outgrown the four exam rooms that currently exist.
"This has been a vision of InterCommunity for many years. Even with good referrals, our clients were having difficulty accessing quality primary care due to barriers such as transportation and health insurance among other things," expressed Kimberly L. Beauregard, LCSW, Chief Executive Officer of InterCommunity, Inc.
Connecticut's Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS) supported InterCommunity's initiative to provide primary care services along with behavioral health services and funded the approximate $500,000 renovation project.
"I can't stress enough how fortunate we feel that clients of InterCommunity can receive quality care in a fully equipped, state-of-the-art setting, complete with an on-site lab for immediate results, as well as a pharmacy located in our office space next door," stated Tyler V.R. Booth, LCSW, Chief Operating Officer of InterCommunity, Inc.
The clinic welcomes patients of all ages and with InterCommunity's Help Now System, one can call (860-569-5900) or just walk in. An appointment will be scheduled with a provider on the same day.
Hours of operation are: Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Thursday 10:00 a.m. – 6:30 p.m., and Friday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
The public is invited to view the new primary care space at 281 Main Street, East Hartford, on Thursday, February 18th between 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Light refreshments will be served.
In addition to providing primary care services, InterCommunity also provides a wide array of behavioral health services and substance use treatment and recovery-supportive services, with many sites in the Hartford area. For more information, please visit www.intercommunityct.org.
Detailed description: Successful preemptive analgesic strategies are superior to traditional pain management schemes in the management of post-operative pain. The premise of this double-blind, placebo and positive-controlled clinical study is to evaluate the efficacy of vanilloid agonists as preemptive agents in an oral surgery tissue injury model. Vanilloids are a class of small organic compounds; the most familiar of which is capsaicin, the active ingredient in hot pepper. Binding of capsaicin to the vanilloid-1 receptor produces initial activation and then long-acting desensitization of pain specific neurons. We propose to produce a selective, long-term inactivation of peripheral pain transmission through the local application of capsaicin in the oral mucosa in an effort to prevent or reduce post-operative pain in the oral surgery model. Healthy subjects will be recruited, and following local anesthesia and conscious sedation, will be given an intramucosal injection of either capsaicin or placebo, or as a positive control, intravenous ketorolac. Subjects will rate pain and time of analgesic rescue medication request will be noted. Small biopsies will be removed from the extraction site prior to drug injection and at 48 hr post-operatively. Tissue levels of neurogenic inflammatory mediators and sensory neuron content will be compared pre- and post-operatively. A decrease in post-operative pain and decrease in analgesic use will be taken as a positive effect of the vanilloid for decreasing post-operative pain. We anticipate that through the long term blockade of pain specific fibers pre-operatively that there will be significant attenuation of post-operative pain development following surgery. This has significant implications for reducing pain and suffering, decreasing analgesic use, and reducing post-operative complications following surgery.
Diabetes is a very serious health problem that affects millions and it also leads to hypertension, heart disease and other[…]
There’s never been a product as unique as Text Your Ex Back in the relationship guidance niche. It’s truly one[…]
In a nutshell, what is Memester? Memester is a social media marketing tool that creates and syndicate viral videos that[…]
Recovering alcoholics and addicts gathered in salt lake for a big birthday bash. They’re celebrating the one year anniversary of ‘Fit to Recover’. A first of its kind gym and recovery center with one goal. Long term sobriety. One year ago, the program took over a vacant warehouse on the near west side. Immediately recovering addicts began to see the benefit of exercise. It’s the brainchild of Ian Acker.
Representative Trey Radel was a major proponent of Republican legislation to make food stamp recipients submit to drug tests before receiving assistance. The proposal for those on food stamps to urinate in cups to prove they’re not on drugs received widespread praise from Republicans. But only a month after he backed the proposal, police busted the Florida Republican on a charge of cocaine possession…That’s right, the Republican politician who wanted to drug test poor people – those tests incurring huge tax-payer expenses – was himself using drugs. “It’s really interesting it came on the heels of Republicans voting on everyone who had access to food stamps get drug tested,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said…”It’s like, what?”
Narcan … basically kicks the heroin off of the opioid receptors in the brain and attaches to the receptors itself. But Narcan has no effects other than blocking opioids – it does not produce euphoria or cause sleepiness, so it is not addictive and you cannot overdose from too much of the drug. Narcan simply temporarily replaces the heroin on the opioid receptor and thus stops the opioid from reacting, enabling the victim to resume breathing.
The Future of Mental Health Interview Series is in support of my new book The Future of Mental Health, Amazon’s No. 1 new release in mental health and No. 1 new release in psychiatry. Learn more about The Future of Mental Health here: The Future of Mental Health: Deconstructing the Mental Disorder Paradigm. Eric R. Maisel, Ph.D.
For too long, the benefits of journal writing have been lost behind stereotypes of girls with pink fluffy pens, scribbling “Dear Diary” under covers by torchlight. But journaling doesn’t have to only be for teenagers who doodle love hearts around their crush’s name. Journaling actually has many health and wellbeing benefits that you can take advantage of too.
For instance, journaling has been found to boost your mood, sharpen your memory, help you better regulate your emotions and reduce symptoms of serious mental health conditions, like depression, intrusive thoughts and PTSD. Journaling can even strengthen your immune function! Yep. As crazy as it sounds, the process of journal writing can literally boost your immune cells, reduce your risk of contracting disease and even speed up the physical healing process.
Journal writing is also incredibly valuable for psychological support and recovery. Writing expressively as part of your daily routine can help you identify behavioural patterns, recognise triggers and hold yourself accountable for your actions. Thus, journaling improves your confidence and self-trust, encourages you to look at life from a fresh perspective and strengthens your sense of self.
So, there you have it. Incorporating journal writing into your daily routine is a sure fire way to make positive change to your health and wellbeing. But remember to be patient with yourself. Rome wasn’t built in a day after all, and developing new habits is a lengthy process that requires time and consistency. Make a start with a TEA+ Do It planner and discover the true value of journaling for yourself.

This week the crew offers impressions of Joe Danger 2: The Movie, Mark of the Ninja, Zen Pinball 2, Double Dragon Neon, as well as examines the changes to the PlayStation 3 iteration of Anomaly Warzone Earth. Additionally, we also welcome Frima Studio’s J. C. Caron- who is on hand to discussion the company’s prodigious publisher output before offering our customary dose of gaming trivia and well as thoughtful responses to your questions.
Don’t forget to send your questions for our next mailbag, and subscribe to the Tech-Gaming Podcast on iTunes. Leaving a review would be an awesome thing to do and keep us from begging for feedback every show.
HIV management – an eight year experience at the Liverpool women's hospital | ADC Fetal & Neonatal Edition
HIV management – an eight year experience at the Liverpool women's hospital
It is estimated that approximately 83,000 people in the UK are HIV positive and of those over 30% are unaware of their infection. In 1999 guidelines were introduced to offer antenatal HIV testing to all women, with the aim to prevent vertical HIV transmission.
We retrospectively audited the care of all HIV positive pregnant patients at our Trust between 2003 & 2011, and describe the age, ethnicity, awareness of diagnosis prior to pregnancy, mode of delivery, response to HAART, complications and the neonatal outcomes over this period. Over 90% of the patient were from Sub-Saharan Africa and over 50% had acquired the infection when resident abroad. The viral load of patients at booking who were not aware of their diagnosis ranged from 4,100 up to 570, 000. We report a single case of vertical transmission, associated with poor maternal engagement with services antenatally, and several complications including two cases of toxoplasmosis, a case of trisomy 21, and an intrauterine death associated with severe hypertension. We also describe the change in pattern of care, with a shift towards vaginal deliveries with undetectable viral loads in those patients successfully managed with HAART.
Our findings reflect those in other parts of the UK, such as London with 70% of patients achieving undetectable viral loads at delivery. This, in light of the new nice guidelines, suggests that most women can achieve vaginal birth.
