Lipoma Removal Surgery - InfoBarrel
Lipoma is the medical term for the thin layers of fatty tissue that has been known to grow in various places on one's body. One person may have several areas that are subject to the growth of lipoma; in some cases the patient may only have one affected area. A sign of lipoma is generally an uncomfortable sensation when the deposit of fat is touched, or subject to some form of physical contact. Rare cases of lipoma have reported several severe symptoms that indicate a crucial need for lipoma removal by surgical means.
Location of Lipoma Removal Surgery
Removal of lipoma deposits may be performed at local hospitals, or specified facilities. The surgery is relatively easy and may be completed by nearly any qualified surgeon. Performed as an outpatient procedure, the patient is generally able to arrive for the procedure alone and leave the hospital in under two hours. Exceptions apply to severe cases and cases that consist of an affected patient with several lipoma deposits.
Anesthesia is injected locally at the site of the lipoma deposit, unless the lipoma is located in an area that is complicated for the surgeon to reach. In the event of inconveniently located lipoma, an anesthetic is applied through general means to provide the patient with a near pain free surgery. In addition, the patient is awake during every minute of the procedure allowing for the patient to be released from the hospital sooner than patients are typically released after surgeries requiring the patients to be put into an anesthetic induced sleep.
After administering the anesthetic to the patient, the surgeon begins removing the tissues the form the lipoma deposit. Removal of the tissue starts with a small incision in the affected area, followed by the extraction of fat tissues that make up the lipoma deposit. After the tissues are removed from the affected area, the surgeon proceeds to stitch up the incision with sutures. It is reported that the procedure usually takes no longer than twenty minutes, allowing for increased availability of scheduling for lipoma removal. In general, a patient may arrive for the surgery, receive the surgery and be released in approximately ninety minutes time.
Importance of Removing Lipoma
Removing lipoma is deemed unnecessary by specialist, as well as insurance companies. An exception is made in cases where the patient is affected by severe symptoms, symptoms severe enough for the patient to desire medical attention. The severe cases of lipoma show physical symptoms that consist of; occurrence of sensitivity that sends waves of pain through the affected area when subject to physical contact, emission of any pus or liquids that emit an unpleasant scent or signs of the lipoma deposit becoming infected. For the cases with severe symptoms, lipoma removal is critical and will be covered by any insurance company due to the severity of the symptoms.
Treatment and Special Instructions
After the surgery, the patient is provided with treatment instructions and options for relieving any side effects caused by the surgery. Given that the surgery is small and requires less incisions and procedures, the pain or soreness that occurs around the affected area after surgery may easily be relieved by pain medications that are available without a prescription.
3D PRINTING IN PHARMACEUTICAL TECHNOLOGY: A REVIEW | Semantic Scholar
DOI:10.7897/2230-8407.100234
Corpus ID: 116728597
3D PRINTING IN PHARMACEUTICAL TECHNOLOGY: A REVIEW
@article{Srinivas20193DPI,
title={3D PRINTING IN PHARMACEUTICAL TECHNOLOGY: A REVIEW},
author={Lakshmi Srinivas and M. Jaswitha and Veera Manikanta and B. B. Bhavya and B Deva Himavant},
journal={International Research Journal Of Pharmacy},
L. Srinivas, M. Jaswitha,
B. D. Himavant
Vanessa Domsta, A. Seidlitz
The current findings highlight the great potential of the manufacturing of drug-eluting implants via 3D-printing technology for advanced individualized medicine despite remaining challenges such as the regulatory approval of individualized implants.
Types of 3D Printers Applied in Industrial Pharmacy and Drug Delivery
Fatima Jalal Al-Gawhari, Ali A. Mohammed Ali
The promising technology depend on using 3D printers' machines (3DPs) might be considered a modern approach in drug industry and delivery. A 3D printer may define as a machine which…
3D PRINTING OF MEDICINES: A REVIEW
Anit Joji George, Fels Saju
3D Printing is an expeditious space of investigation in the pharmaceutical field, due to its flexibility and feasibility. This is an additive process of stacking materials in layers to form a solid…
3D PRINTING TECHNOLOGY & SHORT INTRODUCTION IN 3D BIO-PRINTED MATRICES FOR IN VITRO TUMOR MODEL
Pooja S Murkute, Mr. Radhesham G Gaikwad, Mr. Nakul P Kathar, D. G. Sanap, Mr. Roshan S. Raut, Ms. Aishwarya P Pimple
This review provides a summary of the SLS printing methodology, excipient necessities, method watching, quality defects, restrictive aspects, and potential pharmaceutical applications.
Guruprasad Kantilal Dhere, Punam Mahadev Gadade, Ms. Namrata Kathwate, Dr. Vishal, Babar
Three-dimensional printing is a revolutionary technique that uses computer aided design software and programming to create three dimensional objects by placing material on a substrate. 3D printing is…
Netta Beer, I. Hegger,
S. Kälvemark Sporrong
Nermeen A. Elkasabgy, Islam M. Adel, Mohamed F. Elmeligy
This review of inhaler devices discusses in detail dry powder inhalers highlighting different techniques utilized in preparation of dry powders with or without carrier to improve flowability and drug delivery to deep lungs.
Ravikumar Tamil Ponni, M. Swamivelmanickam, S. Sivakrishnan
The current review is an effort of briefing various methods, advantages, limitations, applications of 3D printing in pharmaceutical technology, which can include a very new possibilities to optimized medicine.
Gather-ed - Osteoarthritis and Pain: Intensive Training in Pain Management
Osteoarthritis and Pain: Intensive Training for Pain Management - Module 2
The pathophysiology of pain, the role of the nerve growth factor pathway in OA pain physiology, and the clinical trial experience about investigational treatments that target the pathway are covered in this second self-study module.
Julia: A Patient with OA
After reviewing the story of Julia, located on the resource page, the group will discuss the burden of OA on Julia. The group will discuss how pain affects Julia and will look at the overall quality of her life and how she now lacks independence and copes with the changes to her life.
Treatment choices for patients with OA
The group will discuss the use of common medications for OA, their mechanisms of action, and how effective they are in clinical practice. Additionally, the group will discuss what types of non-pharmacologic therapies they use for their patients and what techniques they use in shared decision-making.
Managing Pain in an Opioid-Tolerant Patient with OA
This activity will center on a new patient with long-term OA, who has been taking opioids for several years to treat his OA pain. Each member of the group will be assigned a different element of the process to address optimizing pain management.
Mr. Alberts: A 67 year old man with pain in his knees (Standardized Patient Simulation)
Participants will interact with the standardized patient and interview him about his perceptions of how OA has affected his life. Questions will be centered around his loss of functionality, decreased quality of life, and effects on his family life.
Clinical expertise in treating chronic pain, at least 5-10 years of experience, evidence based publications both articles and books and national presentations on the topic. Apply Now
Zen Pharmacy | Abbott Freestyle Lite Test Strips (50s)
Abbott Freestyle Lite Test Strips (50s)
RM68.80 RM99.00
Price	 RM68.80 RM99.00
Reg. No: IVDC1334046917
*BARCODE WILL BE REMOVED IN ORDER TO GET THE PROMO PRICE SHOWN*
Reg No : IVDC1334046917
With Abbott Freestyle Lite Test Strip, you can test anywhere with less pain and less time! No Coding Technology makes Abbott Freestyle Lite Test Strip more accurate and less confusing than many other brands available today. The world's smallest sample size of just 0.3 microliters is all the meter needs to get accurate blood glucose readings.
Abbott Freestyle Lite Test Strip support alternate site testing, so you can test from your fingertip, palm, forearm, upper arm, thigh, or calf. The meter's Coulometry system means that it is unaffected by many of the factors that can make testing problematic.
Free Style Lite Test Strips Features
No Coding Required: This makes it easier and more convenient to begin testing. Coding meters is a time-consuming and frustrating process, as any diabetic knows; without having to code your meter, you're on your way to accurate testing much more quickly.
You can test using your fingers, forearm, upper arm, hand, thigh, calf and palm. When testing for hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) or if you have hypoglycemia unawareness, it is recommended that you use your finger only. Hypoglycemia unawareness is when a patient feels few or no symptoms of initial low blood-glucose levels. This is especially common in those who frequently have such episodes, as the repetition can dull sensitivity to the signs.
A small sample size of just 0.3 microliters of blood is all that is required. Some other meters require samples of 1.0 or even 1.5 microliters—more than triple what the FreeStyle Lite requires.
Accurate blood glucose results are available in merely 5 seconds. When you aren't sure what your blood-glucose levels are, time is frequently of the essence, and a few seconds faster can mean a much better outcome for an acute problem—whether hyperglycemic or hypoglycemic.
To make a significant contribution to humanity through medical research by expanding our understanding of the secrets of life, and by improving life’s quality through innovative approaches to the causes, treatment and prevention of diseases.
The Stowers Institute for Medical Research was established in 1994 through the extraordinary generosity of the late James “Jim” E. Stowers Jr., the founder of American Century Investments, and his wife Virginia G. Stowers, who dedicated their personal fortune to improving human health through basic research.
Situated on the former campus of the Menorah Medical Center in Kansas City, Missouri, the 600,000-square-foot research facility was thoughtfully designed to provide state-of-the-art laboratory space, equipment and technical support—but above all—to encourage collaboration between scientists.
In the year 2000, three years after breaking ground, the Stowers Institute opened its laboratory doors to welcome the first generation of Stowers scientists. In 2009, the Institute added a 280,000-square-foot complex in South Kansas City to accommodate additional support functions and storage facilities.
Throughout the Institute’s history, from the earliest planning stages to the latest addition of new faculty members, an external Scientific Advisory Board, comprised of seven members of the National Academy of Sciences, has been providing independent advice and guidance on the scientific direction of the Institute.
Today, the Institute houses more than 20 independent research programs and several technology development programs. Of the nearly 550 Institute members, about 370 are scientific staff: principal investigators, technology center directors, postdoctoral research associates and fellows, pre-doctoral research associates, and technical support staff.
The research programs at the Stowers Institute focus on basic biomedical research in genetic model organisms as a way to understand how cells function and to decipher what goes wrong when they malfunction. Stowers investigators analyze how genes and proteins control virtually all biological processes; from cell division to cell differentiation; from processing smells to storing fat; from generating memories to regenerating missing body parts.
As strong believers in endowment-based scientific research, the Stowers family endowed the Institute with gifts totaling close to $2 billion. Their ultimate goal was to free scientists from the pressures of securing their own funding, allowing them to solely focus their talent and energy on scientific research.
In addition to thriving research programs and continued growth, the Institute launched a graduate training program in the fall of 2011.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are all effective for childhood anxiety, a new systematic review and meta-analysis suggests.
In light of these findings, study investigator Zhen Wang, PhD, of the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, told Medscape Medical News the choice of treatment for pediatric anxiety should be based on "values, preferences, availability of services, and adverse effect profile."
The study was published online August 31 in JAMA Pediatrics.
Childhood anxiety disorders are the most common mental health diagnoses, with prevalence rates of 15% to 20%. They are associated with significant impairment, the researchers note.
"Rates of anxiety and depression seem to be increasing in youth, although we don't know this with certainty. But it has been hypothesized to be related to the challenges of modern society, especially fewer opportunities to connect with others," said Dr Wang.
The investigators note that although multiple treatment options are available, existing guidelines provide inconsistent advice on which to use.
The meta-analysis and systematic review included 115 randomized as well as nonrandomized comparative trials. The trials included a total of 7719 patients with a diagnosis of an anxiety disorder who received CBT, pharmacotherapy, or a combination of the two. The mean age of the patients was 9.2 years, and 4290 (55.6%) were female.
Anxiety disorders included separation anxiety disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and social anxiety disorder. Other sources of childhood anxiety included panic disorder or a specific phobia.
Outcomes of interest were primary anxiety symptoms, treatment response, and clinical remission.
The investigators found that compared with placebo, SSRIs were significantly more effective at reducing primary anxiety symptoms, with increased remission (relative risk [RR], 2.04; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.37 - 3.04) and response (RR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.60 - 2.40).
They also found that SNRIs significantly reduced clinician-reported primary anxiety symptoms. In contrast, benzodiazepines and tricyclics had no significant effect on anxiety systems.
Compared to wait-list/no treatment, CBT significantly improved primary anxiety symptoms, remission, and response. Combination treatment with sertraline (Zoloft, Pfizer) and CBT significantly reduced clinician-reported primary anxiety symptoms and response more than either treatment alone.
In addition, the investigators found that CBT reduced primary anxiety symptoms more than fluoxetine did and improved remission more than sertraline did.
SSRIs and SNRIs were often associated with adverse events, but these events were generally not serious and typically did not lead to discontinuance of treatment. However, the investigators note that the studies were either too small or too short to allow assessment of suicidality that may have been associated with these medications.
Few adverse events were reported for CBT, but Dr Wang noted that most CBT studies did not evaluate the study participants for the occurrence of adverse events.
"Head-to-head comparisons between various medications and comparing with CBT represent a need for research in the field," the investigators conclude.
Full Remission Remains Elusive
In an accompanying editorial, Joan Rosenbaum Asarnow, PhD, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, and colleagues also note the high prevalence of anxiety in youth and the fact that these disorders can become more severe in adulthood.
"From a clinical perspective, the key issues are how many children will recover, how much recovery is expected, and how rapidly will recovery occur," the editorialists write.
The most rigorous of the randomized trials reviewed by Dr Wang and colleagues was the Child/Adolescent Anxiety Multimodal Study, which included patients aged 7 to 17 years who had been diagnosed with separation anxiety, generalized anxiety, or social phobia.
Among the cohort who received the combination of a SSRI and CBT, more than 80% showed "much or very much" clinical improvement at the end of 12 weeks of treatment, compared with 55% for those receiving an SSRI alone and 60% for those receiving CBT alone.
Patients treated with the SSRI plus CBT, as well as those treated with an SSRI alone, also improved more quickly, with patients showing signs of symptom alleviation relative to placebo by 4 weeks.
"Therefore, current evidence indicates that treatment with demonstrated efficacy in the reviewed trials can yield substantial improvements in anxiety symptoms within a relatively brief period," the editorialists write.
On the other hand, they also note that it is "equally and arguably more important" to take into account the effect treatment has on school attendance and overall social performance.
Dr Asarnow and colleagues point out that relatively few of the studies that were included in the meta-analysis provide any indication of the durability of the effects of treatment on anxiety symptoms.
"This important limitation is underscored by the Child/Adolescent Anxiety Multimodal Study findings that approximately half of youth receiving gold-standard CBT, SSRI, or CBT plus SSRI treatments experienced diagnostic recurrence within 6 years of initial treatment," they write.
"[T]his means that full remission is not expected for many children, even with our best treatments," they conclude.
The study was funded by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. The authors and editorialists have disclosed no relevant financial relationships.
Novartis launches FocalView app for trial participation
Novartis has launched the FocalView app, an ophthalmic digital research platform designed to allow researchers to track disease progression by collecting real-time data reported from consenting patients.
By adapting the design of clinical trials for patients' daily routines, the app may reduce barriers to study participation, the company said in a press release.
The app will help patients complete assessments and gain feedback on their visual function, including changes over time. It can also provide researchers with real-world, patient-reported data to create more flexible and accessible trial designs.
The app will be tested for efficacy and usability in assessing visual function, including visual acuity and contrast sensitivity, in a prospective, non-interventional study. Researchers will evaluate the app's ease of use, patient enrollment and ability to obtain documentation for future research, according to the release.
FocalView is available for download in the United States. User consent to contribute to research data will be required before interaction with the tool is allowed.
mens' health | DT - Your Daily Health News DT - Your Daily Health News > mens' health mens' health
mens' health 0
Tips For Choosing The Right Gynecomastia Surgeon
Even though Gynecomastia is not a life threatening situation, you still need to pay attention to it. Normally it will go away without needing any kind of treatment especially for men that are in their adolescence stage. But if you have had Gynecomastia for more than a year already, you might want to look at the possibility of undergoing the male breast reduction procedure. And just like any other procedures that you will go through, you need to make sure that you have the right professional to help you resolve it. You need to avail of the services of a surgeon that you can trust.
What should you be looking for in a surgeon? Here are the qualities that you should look at in your surgeon in order for you to have confidence in him or her.
Visit: gynecomastia.org for more information!
Board Certification. This is the best indicator of what particular surgical or medical specialty a surgeon has. People in the UK should look for a gynecomastia surgeon that has a certification with the General Medical Council (GMC).
Plastic surgeons that have a good amount of experience have done different kinds of cosmetic surgeries. As a patient, you need to ask the surgeon what kind of experience he has on a particular procedure.
Facility Accreditation. There are different places where cosmetic surgery can be successfully done. It can be done in hospitals, surgicenters and surgical centers that are based in the office. But you need to take note that a lot of office-based surgical facilities do not have accreditation.
Hospital Privileges. Check if the surgeon has the privilege to operate in the hospital where the procedure is going to be performed. Review committees of hospitals will evaluate the competency and training for particular procedures.
Reliable References. You can start by asking your general physician for recommendations. Your friends that have undergone the same procedure might also have recommendations. But what is important is you independently verify the board certification of the recommended doctor.
If you have any questions about your condition and the procedure then the best time to ask them would be during consultation. For a consultation o be thorough, your complete medical history should also be reviewed. Risks of the procedure should also be discussed along with the benefits. Customizing the operation based on these factors will ensure that the patient is getting what he needs.
No surgeon is right for every patient. Good patient-doctor relationships are developed when there is good communication between the two parties. So opt for a surgeon that you can talk to and discuss matters with you.
Follow-up Care. The care that you should get from your surgeon does not end when the surgery is finished. Typically, surgeons will want to monitor how you are doing and take a look at the result. So you need to ask the surgeon regarding follow-up check-ups and policies regarding revision of surgeries should you require it.
"So an EKG that would tell you the rhythm, what the heart rate variability is, what the heart rate response to exercise and stress is; how quickly your heart rate and rhythm return to normal after exercise.
"A non-invasive way to measure cardiac output in real time and continuously would be highly valuable too, as would a measure of vascular health that's meaningful and actionable."
And then there's stress, something that some wearable manufacturers are starting to look more carefully at. Being able to get an accurate measurement of physical and emotional stress over prolonged periods, along with accurate diet activity - another realm wearables are edging further into - would be beneficial also.
In order much of this data to start making sense for doctors a lot of things have to change, but whether it will come from tech companies or the industry itself is as yet untold.
When You Should Go to Urgent Care for Flu - MedHelp
Flu, also known as influenza, is a contagious virus that spreads through respiratory droplets. Two main types of flu - Flu A and Flu B - typically circulate in humans. Flu season in Alabama usually lasts from November to late May, and it peaks in the late winter months.
The prevalence of flu will change from season to season. The more cases of flu there are in your community, the more likely you are to be exposed to the flu. You can check the CDC Flu Tracker to monitor flu activity in your area.
There is an overlap of symptoms of flu with COVID-19 and other influenza-like illnesses. Symptoms of flu and influenza-like illnesses include:
Symptoms of flu typically appear 1 to 4 days after you've been infected, and you usually feel better from the flu in 7 to 10 days. Flu also comes on rapidly, while a cold or COVID-19 will come on a little more slowly. Because so many symptoms overlap, it's impossible to tell the difference between flu and COVID-19 without a test.
Before the onset of COVID-19, it was advisable to take a wait-and-see approach with the flu. If you have not had a previous COVID infection, you should get tested for both COVID and the flu if you have any flu-like symptoms.
Get tested as soon as you start to have symptoms. Knowing what has caused your illness will help you know how to mitigate spread and how best to treat your illness. You can get tested for both flu and COVID-19 at any MedHelp urgent care clinic.
Some cases of flu will be more severe. If you have any of the following symptoms, you should go to the nearest ER:
Difficulty breathing, especially when at rest
What your urgent care doctor can do for the flu
If your flu is detected early (usually within two days of getting sick), your urgent care doctor may prescribe antiviral treatment such as Tamiflu. Antiviral treatment can shorten the duration of your illness and possibly reduce the severity of your flu symptoms, but it is not a cure. Antiviral treatment isn't for everyone, and antivirals aren't the same as antibiotics. Your flu will resolve without an antiviral prescription.
Depending on your symptoms, your doctor may also recommend a steroid injection. When your immune system is weakened, you may develop secondary infections such as pneumonia, so your doctor may also recommend a chest x-ray.
What you can do for the flu
If you do get the flu, avoid contact with others for 5 to 7 days from the onset of symptoms. You can still be contagious without a fever.
While you're recovering from the flu, make sure to get plenty of rest and drink lots of fluids. You can also take over-the-counter medications such as ibuprofen and acetaminophen to reduce your fever and relieve aches and pains
Everyone over the age of six months old should get vaccinated for the flu each year. The annual flu vaccine is designed to protect against the most common flu strains circulating in a given year. The flu shot is the best way to protect yourself against the flu each year.
Research also indicates that the flu shot can also offer some unique benefits in the context of COVID-19, making it less likely that you'll contract COVID or develop severe complications from COVID-19 if you are infected.
