5 Techniques Pee Medication Testing Guards Your current Health care Exercise | Chotot Vinh Long
5 Techniques Pee Medication Testing Guards Your current Health care Exercise
If you have not observed, the US is going through a verifiable epidemic when it arrives to drug abuse. A CDC report previous 12 months showed that soreness reliever abuse has improved 111% in the previous 5 many years.
In addition, a new Institute of Drugs report showed that in excess of 100 million Individuals are working with persistent discomfort, at a price to the region of over $540 billion pounds a yr. Of course, that is not a typo! Twenty percent of physician workplace visits require a narcotic prescription.
Most doctors, when requested if they drug test their individuals, say "I know my individuals, they are not selling it or diverting it." This is a fallacy, as scientific studies have revealed that thirty% of patients divert their prescription drugs. This means they are possibly marketing it, giving it to someone, or buying and selling it for illicit substances. The culprits contain youthful sufferers who 1 would suspect all the way up to retired people hunting to complement their social stability.
Here are fake urine for a drug test why physicians should drug test their patients who they are prescribing narcotics.
1. Drug testing offers the clinician with an goal test documenting prescription adherence. With the quantities of individuals diverting their drugs in all age groups, screening will assist make confident that patients are using their medications and also not abusing illicit medications. How betrayed will a ache medical doctor feel if his patient is negative for the medications prescribed and optimistic for heroin and cocaine? It occurs more than you would think!
two. As states turn into much more controlled with narcotic prescriptions (e.g. Washington point out), drug testing your individuals will grow to be the common of treatment. Multiple medical boards now advise it for long-term narcotic clients. With its reduced price of undertaking the testing, instituting it now is an exceptional pre-emptive maneuver for compliance.
three. Shields your practice from legal concerns. If a client sells the medicine they are becoming recommended to a person who becomes impaired while driving and hurts somebody, the path of narcotic may possibly direct again to the prescribing medical professional. If a screening mechanism has been in location to detect prescription compliance, it will serve as a authorized deterrent to any individual who attempts to say that the prescribing physician was not effectively checking the affected person.
4. Spots the exercise on a level playing discipline. Screening on a random foundation is a very frequent ache management screening technique with urine cups. Nevertheless, it is not random if only the 18-fifteen yr outdated crowd is chosen. A "degree enjoying area" for screening would incorporate random testing for all age groups acquiring chronic discomfort prescription drugs.
5. Sufferers who phone in early for refills or are 1st time patients. Developing a baseline for patients' narcotic utilization or illicit material intake must be regular exercise for 1st time patients at the workplace. This will make certain that patients' final results correlate with what they write on their historical past and the health care information detail. Also if a affected person is calling in early for refills a smart technique would be to make the patient show up in person for a refill and find out what is actually likely on and execute a urine screening to make certain legitimacy with the request.
Prescribing narcotics is dangerous company these days, but with correct safeguards can be effectively monitored for diversion. A single of the best strategies at present is urine drug screening.
Standard Material Transfer Agreements 2 (SMTA2)
The SMTA 2 is one element of the PIP Benefit Sharing System. It is a legally-binding contract between WHO and a company, laboratory or other institution that receives PIP Biological Materials (PIP BM) from a laboratory which is part of the Global Influenza Surveillance and Response System (GISRS).
The SMTA 2 ensures that manufacturers and research institutions that receive PIP BM share with WHO some of the benefits arising from their access to these materials. Its main purpose is to establish a structured process for an efficient and equitable access to vaccines and other life-saving products by all countries at the time of a pandemic. Through this contract, the entity commits to provide to WHO specific items that can be used to prepare for (e.g. training, technology license) or respond to (e.g. vaccines, antivirals, diagnostic kits) pandemic influenza.
There are three different categories of entities that sign an SMTA 2:
Influenza vaccine and antiviral manufacturers
Manufacturers of other pandemic related products (e.g. diagnostic tests and materials)
All other recipients (universities, research institutions, bio-tech companies etc.)
The signatories, depending on their nature and capacity, may choose from a specific list of benefit options that are described in Annex 2 of the PIP Framework. Benefits include pandemic influenza vaccines, antiviral medicines and other pandemic related products or technologies.
A summary of the options available to each category of recipient of PIP Biological Materials can be found here:
Brazilian Journal of Pulmonology - Meeting the assumptions of statistical tests: an important and often forgotten step to reporting valid results
a Juliana Carvalho Ferreira1
Patino1 CM, 2 , Ferreira1 aJC, 3 , B . Meeting the assumptions of statistical tests: an important and often forgotten step to reporting valid results. J Bras Pneumol. 2018;44(5):353
Meeting the assumptions of statistical tests: an important and often forgotten step to reporting valid results
Atender as premissas dos testes estatísticos: um passo importante e muitas vezes negligenciado na comunicação de resultados válidos
Cecilia Maria Patino1; 2; a Juliana Carvalho Ferreira1; 3; b
A secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial was conducted to evaluate whether atopic status was associated with asthma severity and asthma control among inner-city adolescents in the USA.(1) To answer this question, the authors evaluated the differences between atopic and non-atopic patients, in terms of asthma control and asthma severity scores, using a t-test, and reported the results as means ± SDs. The results showed that the atopic patients, when compared with non-atopic patients, had similar asthma control scores (18.1 ± 4.2 vs. 18.2 ± 3.7; p = 0.95) but worse asthma severity scores (5.5 ± 2.9 vs. 4.7 ± 2.8; p = 0.04).
As part of the process of answering research questions using quantitative methods, investigators select a statistical analytical approach based on various characteristics of the study, such as the nature of the variables collected (e.g., continuous, categorical, time-to-event variables), as well as the study design. Once the analysis is completed, it is expected that investigators take an additional step in the analysis process to make sure that the a priori assumptions of the statistical test selected are met in the dataset assembled for the study.
All statistical tests have underlying assumptions that need to be met so that the test provides results that are valid (without unacceptable error) regarding the parameter the test is calculating (e.g., mean, proportion, odds ratio, etc.). In our example, the authors used a t-test to calculate the mean and the standard deviation of asthma control and severity asthma scores in atopic and non-atopic patients using data collected from the study population as a means to represent the truth in similar patients from the source population (adolescents with asthma in the USA). This process, called inference, is only valid if the assumptions of the statistical test are met (Table 1).
It is good practice, as investigators, to acknowledge that the assumptions of the statistical tests used to answer their research question have been evaluated and whether they were met or not. If the assumptions of the tests are met, which should be reported in the results section of the study, this assures the scientific community that the results of the study have met one of the important criteria related to their validity. However, it has been suggested that the assumptions of statistical techniques are often not checked(2) or reported. Reasons for not assessing assumptions include: 1. researchers being unaware of the assumptions of the statistical tests used in the study, such as a t-test, ANOVA, or regression analysis; 2. researchers being unaware of standard approaches used to check assumptions of statistical tests and evaluate if they are violated or not; 3. researchers being unaware of how to remedy violations of the assumptions of a statistical model or how to select a new test when violations cannot be remedied; and 4. researchers being confident in the robustness of the statistical test used and choosing not to check its assumptions.
As educators and investigators, we all need to contribute to the overall goal of reporting high quality research conducted among the populations we serve. Testing the assumptions of statistical tests or models used to answer our research questions is a good start!
1.	Arroyave WD, Rabito FA, Carlson JC, Sever ML, Lefante J. Asthma severity, not asthma control, is worse in atopic compared with nonatopic adolescents with asthma. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 2016;116(1):18-25. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.anai.2015.10.015
Hoekstra R, Kiers HA, Johnson A. Are assumptions of well-known statistical techniques checked, and why (not)? Front Psychol. 2012;3:137. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00137
Mauro Ferrari, Ph.D. is President and CEO of Houston Methodist Research Institute, where he directs more than 2,300 employees and credentialed clinicians engaged in basic science and over 1,000 clinical research protocols in cancer, cardiovascular diseases, neurology, and many others domains of medicine. He also serves as Executive Vice President of the Houston Methodist Hospital System, recently recognized by U.S. News and World Report as one of the top twenty hospitals in the USA. Concurrently, Dr. Ferrari serves as Senior Associate Dean and Professor of Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical School in Manhattan, New York. His laboratory develops new drugs for cancer. He is recognized as the pioneer of nanomedicine and transport oncophysics. He was the principal architect of the Cancer Nanotechnology Plan at the National Cancer Institute of the USA (2003-2005), which is the largest nanomedicine research program to date, worldwide. He has published over 500 scientific articles, 7 books, and is inventor of over 50 patents issued in the USA and internationally.
Dr. Ferrari is a Fellow of AIMBE, AAAS (Biological Sciences), and ASME. He has won numerous scientific awards and recognitions, including the Founders’ Award from the Controlled Release Society, the Blaise Pascal Medal from the European Academy of Sciences, the Aurel Stodola Medal from ETH Zurich. Dr. Ferrari is a Foreign Member of the Italian National Academy of Sciences (Accademia dei Quaranta), a Member of the European Academy of Sciences, and a Corresponding Member of the Pontifical Academy for Life, by appointment of Pope Francis. Born in Italy, Dr. Ferrari holds a degree in Mathematics from the Universita’ di Padova, Masters and Ph.D. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, and attended medical school at the Ohio State University. Dr. Ferrari holds honorary faculty positions at several universities in the USA and internationally. He has received honorary doctorates in biotechnology, electrical engineering, and letters (theology). His prior employment includes tenured faculty positions in Engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, in Engineering and Medicine at the Ohio State University, and the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center and Health Sciences Center in Houston, Texas.
SENSE - Research seminar Earth System Governance
Home>Courses>Research seminar Earth System Governance
Research seminar Earth System Governance
Frequency: Ongoing. Weekly research seminars held each Thursday 12-13 hrs.
Start date: 3 April 2014 (participants can enroll at any time)
Credits: 1-2 ECTS, depending on number of meetings attended
Enrollment in a related PhD programme at a SENSE partner institution
Fee: The Amsterdam Laboratory on Earth System Governance is free of charge.
Coordinator: Sandra van der Hel; sandra.vander.hel@vu.nl
Prof dr. Frank Biermann, Dr. Dave Huitema and Dr. Philipp Pattberg
Presentations by PhD students. All participating PhD students will be given the opportunity to present their research and receive valuable feedback on their work. During these meetings, two other PhD students will act as discussants. These student will read the paper in advance and prepare questions and suggestions for the speaker.
Presentations by Faculty Members. Faculty members of the IVM section Environmental Policy Analysis will present and discuss their current research.
Guest Presentations. Guests will be invited to present on a theme or research project related to earth system governance. We aim for about five guest presentation per year.
ESG Frontier Sessions. These sessions will be devoted to an in-depth discussion of new directions in earth system governance research. The sessions could for example explore the relevance of a new concepts in earth system governance, focus on a recent event and its implications for earth system governance, investigate the relationship of earth system governance to other research traditions or discuss the opportunities and challenges of a novel research method for earth system governance research. We aim at about four Frontier Sessions per year.
New 'malaria-in-a-dish' method to aid better treatment of disease | TheHealthSite.com
Home / Health News / New 'malaria-in-a-dish' method to aid better treatment of disease
By: Agencies | | Published: February 6, 2015 5:23 pm
Washington, February 6: A team of researchers has engineered a 'malaria-in-a-dish' method that paves the way for better treatments. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) researchers have come up with a way to use human liver cells, derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, to screen potential antimalarial drugs and vaccines for their ability to treat the liver stage of malaria infection. Also Read - New mutation in malaria parasite may resist drug used to prevent the disease: Study
The approach may offer new opportunities for personalized antimalarial drug testing and the development of more effective individually tailored drugs to combat the disease, which causes more than 500,000 deaths worldwide each year. Author Sangeeta Bhatia said that their platform can be used for testing candidate drugs that act against the parasite in the early liver stages, before it causes disease in the blood and spreads back to the mosquito vector and this is especially important given the increasing occurrence of drug-resistant strains of malaria in the field.(Read: How is malaria treated?) Also Read - NIH researchers find new target for malaria treatment: Know the best way to prevent the disease
However, current methods for modeling liver-stage malaria in a dish are limited by the small available pool of liver cells from human donors and the lack of genetic diversity of these donor cells and to overcome these hurdles, Bhatia and her team reprogrammed human skin cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), embryonic-like stem cells capable of turning into other specific cell types relevant for studying a particular disease. (Read: Chloroquine is now effective against malaria again!)
The researchers infected iPSC-derived liver cells with various malaria parasites to model liver-stage malaria in the lab. These cells were sensitive to an antimalarial drug called atovaquone; chemical maturation through exposure to small molecules also made the cells sensitive to another antimalarial drug called primaquine, demonstrating the value of this approach for testing new antimalarial drugs. Lead author Shengyong Ng said the use of iPSC-derived liver cells to model liver-stage malaria in a dish opens the door to study the influence of host genetics on antimalarial drug efficacy and lays the foundation for their use in antimalarial drug discovery. The study appears in the official journal of the International Society for Stem Cell Research. (Read: 6 common malaria symptoms)
NDEP | Si tiene diabetes cuide su corazón.
Si tiene diabetes cuide su corazón.
Campaign Overview: Understanding the Link between Diabetes and Heart Disease in Hispanic Americans
Diabetes is a growing epidemic for Hispanic Americans
Heart disease is the most common and deadly complication of diabetes
To reduce the risk of heart disease and other complications from diabetes, people at risk should...
Oprima aquí para ver esta página en español.
Diabetes is a growing epidemic for Hispanic Americans: ^ top
Of the 30 million Hispanic/Latinos living in the United States, about 2 million had been diagnosed with diabetes in 2000.
About 10.2 percent of all Hispanic Americans have diabetes.
On average, Hispanic Americans are 1.9 times more likely to have diabetes than non-Hispanic whites of similar age.
Diabetes is twice as common in Mexican American and Puerto Rican adults as in non-Hispanic whites. The prevalence of diabetes in Cuban Americans is lower, but still higher than that of non-Hispanic whites.
As in all populations, having risk factors for diabetes increases the chance that a Hispanic American will develop diabetes. Risk factors seem to be more common among Hispanics than non-Hispanic whites. These factors include: a family history of diabetes, gestational diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, obesity, and physical inactivity.
Heart disease is the most common and deadly complication of diabetes: ^ top
The San Antonio Heart Study found that for both Latinos and Latinas, those with diabetes had higher rates of heart disease deaths and all other deaths than those without diabetes.
A least 65 percent of people with diabetes die from heart disease or stroke. And yet, only one in four Hispanic/Latinos with diabetes know they are at risk for heart disease.
Adults with diabetes are two to four times more likely to have heart disease or suffer a stroke than people without diabetes.
Middle-aged people with type 2 diabetes have the same high risk for heart attack as people without diabetes who already have had a heart attack.
About 70 percent of people with diabetes also have high blood pressure.
To reduce the risk of heart disease and other complications from diabetes, people at risk should: ^ top
Eat a variety of healthy foods that are low in salt and fat, like fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Aim for 30 minutes of physical activity five days a week to stay at a healthy weight.
Take steps to control blood glucose levels, blood pressure and cholesterol to reduce the risks of complications from diabetes, especially heart disease. The recommended tests and target numbers for most people with diabetes are:
Innovations to increase healthcare efficiency
Economic progress throughout Asia is both transforming communities and vastly improving infrastructures. But sometimes the pressures of increased urbanisation, spiralling population demands and a lack of specialist medical experts can lead to societal problems that only digital technology could help to solve. Especially if that digital technology is designed to increase healthcare efficiency and cut costs.
In a country like China, the healthcare efficiency demands placed on individual doctors can be overwhelming, which is why Philips believes its digital technology has the ability to revolutionise the world of medicine and vastly improve hospital efficiency. Populations, especially in cities, are growing exponentially and more people are being diagnosed with health conditions such as asthma and heart disease, as well as many different types of cancers, including lung, breast and colon.
Thirty years ago, we didn't have nearly as many patients as we do now. Lung cancer cases have gone up, breast cancer cases have gone up, colon cancer cases have gone up".
Head of the Radiology Department, China-Japan Friendship Hospital
Professor Wang Wu, Head of Radiology at Beijing's China-Japan Friendship Hospital, has found his working life—and the health of his patients—transformed by the use of these Philips imaging machines: "The clearer the image is", he says, "the clearer my diagnosis is".
How much has China's urban population grown in the last three decades?
500 million. By 2030, China's cities will contain around a billion people — about 70% of China's population. Citation: The Economist
<iframe src="https://lup.lub.lu.se/search/publication?q=author%3D%22Andersson%2C+Kristina%22+or+(documentType+any+%22bookEditor+conferenceEditor%22+and+editor%3D%22Andersson%2C+Kristina%22)&embed=1&amp;hide_pagination=1&amp;hide_info=1&amp;hide_options=1"
Contribution to journal (11) Book/Report (1) Contribution to conference (1) Thesis (1)
2017 (1) 2013 (2) 2012 (4) 2011 (1) 2010 (4) 2009 (1) 2007 (1)
Nutrition and Dietetics (5) Basic Medicine (2) Pharmacology and Toxicology (2) Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (1) Production Engineering, Human Work Science and Ergonomics (1) Endocrinology and Diabetes (1) Cardiac and Cardiovascular Systems (1) Radiology, Nuclear Medicine and Medical Imaging (1) Food Science (1)
Faculty of Medicine (13) Faculty of Engineering, LTH (8) Faculty of Science (3)
V1000000 (14) Department of Experimental Medical Science (12) Lund University Research Groups (11) Vascular Physiology (10) Departments at LTH (8) Department of Food Technology (6) Cellular Biomechanics (4) Food Technology (3) Department of Chemistry (3) Center for Applied Life Sciences (3) University Specialised Centres (3) Food for Health Science Centre (3) Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö (2) Cardiovascular Research - Immunity and Athersosclerosis (2) Biotechnology (2) Strategic Research Areas (2) Department of Design Sciences (1) Ergonomics and Aerosol Technology (1) Airway Inflammation and Immunology (1) Molecular Endocrinology (1) Neural Plasticity and Repair (1) Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund (1) Division III (1) Division of Infection Medicine (BMC) (1) Department of Translational Medicine (1) Radiology Diagnostics, Malmö (1) Pure and Applied Biochemistry (1) Food for Health Science Centre, Kemicentrum (1) EXODIAB: Excellence in Diabetes Research in Sweden (1) MultiPark: Multidisciplinary research focused on Parkinson´s disease (1)
Understanding The Causes Of Childhood Obesity & How To Prevent It
HomeFamily Parenting Understanding The Causes Of Childhood Obesity & How To Prevent It
In the past 30 years, childhood obesity has more than doubled in children and quadrupled in adolescents. Childhood obesity directly results from caloric imbalance and is affected by genetic, behavioral, and environmental factors.
Obese children and adolescents are at an increased risk for bone and joint problems, heart disease, sleep apnea, and social and psychological problems, such as poor self-esteem and stigmatization. Obese children are also more likely to become obese as adults, which will put them at risk of different types of cancer, including cancer of the thyroid, gallbladder, kidney, and pancreas.
Children put on excessive weight for a variety of reasons. Genetic factors, unhealthy eating patterns, lack of exercise, or a combination of these could result in weight gain. Weight gain can also sometimes be caused by hormonal problems. Blood tests and a physical examination can help rule out the possibility of a medical condition as the cause for obesity.
Children whose siblings or parents are overweight are at an increased risk of becoming overweight. This could also be the result of shared family eating and activity behaviors.
A child's eating habits and level physical activity play a vital role in determining the child's weight. Many children spend an average of four hours watching television daily, making them inactive. The popularity of computer and video games can also make a child inactive.
Here is a video that explains the need for nutrition education in kids.
Parents can play a vital role in preventing childhood obesity by providing healthy meals and snacks, encouraging daily physical activity, and nutrition education. Healthy snacks and meals not only provide nutrition for growing bodies, but also model healthy eating behavior. An increase in physical activity can help control weight gain and reduce health risks. Nutrition education involves preparing nutritious foods with the kids and encouraging them to make healthier food choices.
Children can be taught to adopt healthy eating habits and to be physically active when the parents:
1. Focus on overall health and not just a specific weight goal. Include healthy, positive attitudes towards food, wellness, and physical activity without highlighting weight.
2. Do not set overweight children apart. Involve the entire family in making better food choices and work to gradually change the family's eating habits and physical activity.
3. Fix daily snack and meal times. Eat together as frequently as possible. Often, eating at irregular intervals. Since fast foods can be a primary reason for weight gain, home-cooked meals are in general a healthier choice, especially if you are cautious of the oil content and sugar used in foods.
4. Encourage your child to take part in outdoor sports. This will allow him to socialize and enjoy that much-needed workout.
