NASH Disease Market Examined in New Topical MP Advisors Report Now Available at MarketPublishers.com
LONDON – Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its progressive form – non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are the most rapidly growing liver diseases in the USA and Europe. NASH is estimated to affect 2 to 5% of the population of the USA. Europe and Japan also have a similar or higher incidence rate for NASH disease. Owing to the varying metabolism and physical traits in different geographies, the development of drug products for NASH is currently facing difficulty. In Japan, for instance, the prevalence of NASH is on the rise although the country's population is not commonly overweight. Countries such as China and India with a bigger population pool and lifestyles changes face a far greater risk of the disease alongside other lifestyle disorders like diabetes as well as complexities associated with cardiovascular diseases.
There has been growing interest in firms developing drugs for the treatment of NASH. In January 2015, Gilead Sciences acquired Phenex Pharma's Farnesoid X Receptor (FXR) programme consisting of small molecule FXR agonists to treat liver diseases encompassing NASH and others. Merck-NGM Biopharma and Boehringer Ingelheim - Pharmaxis also initiated an exclusive agreement for the pipeline products which are being developed for NASH with a prospective deal value of close to USD 450-600 million
New research report "Non-Alcoholic SteatoHepatitis (NASH): An Analysis of Disease Prevalence, Drugs in development, Regulatory guidelines and Market opportunity in Various Geographies" drawn up by MP Advisors provides a detailed analysis on NASH disease and drugs in development in the overall pharmaceutical market. The research publication presents detailed information on the etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis and present-day treatment of the disease. It offers a comprehensive listing of all the drugs undergoing clinical trials and their design and the population recruited, alongside discussing the pathways representing likely targets for NASH treatment. The report gives an analysis of the drivers of M&A and/or licensing deals in NASH; sheds light on top companies developing drug products to treat NASH; gives a detailed review of the repurposed drugs for NASH. The study keeps track of the opportunities in the NASH disease market up to 2025.
Fuciter 2 % Cream (10): Uses, Side Effects, Price, Dosage & Composition | PharmEasy
HomeFuciter Cream
Fuciter Cream
Fuciter Cream is an antibiotic consisting of fusidic acid, which belongs to the group of medicines called fusidanes. It is used for the local treatment of skin infection caused by bacteria. This Cream is meant for external use only. You should use this medicine exactly as directed by the doctor. Inform your doctor if you are pregnant or breastfeeding and about all the medicines, supplements or other topical preparations (Cream, lotion, etc.) you use and all the conditions or diseases you suffer from, before starting this medicine....
Contains same composition as Fuciter Cream
Uses of Fuciter 2 %
Fuciter Cream is used in the treatment of certain skin infections like impetigo (swollen patch of skin)
Contraindications of Fuciter 2 %
Side effects of Fuciter 2 %
Precautions and Warnings of Fuciter 2 %
Can I apply Fuciter Cream during pregnancy?
Can I apply Fuciter Cream while breastfeeding?
Can I drive if I have applied Fuciter Cream?
Can I consume alcohol with Fuciter Cream?
Mode of Action of Fuciter 2 %
The composition of Fuciter Cream works by interfering with the protein synthesis of the bacterial cells, thus resulting in a growth stop and ridding of the infection.
Directions for Use of Fuciter 2 %
Fuciter Cream should be used as directed by the doctor
Interactions of Fuciter 2 %
Since Fuciter Cream is to be used externally on the skin, it is less likely to interact with other medicines. However, you should always consult your doctor if you are taking other medicines for treating other health conditions....
Storage and disposal of Fuciter 2 %
Dosage of Fuciter 2 %
An overdose of the Cream is unlikely to be a life threat. However, you should consult a doctor in case of any irritation or reaction, skin irritation and symptoms of an allergic reaction, which are some of the side effects of Fuciter Cream due to overdose....
Q: What is Fuciter Cream used for?
A: Fuciter Cream is used for the local treatment of skin infection caused by bacteria, such as impetigo (swollen patch of skin), barber's itch (inflammation of the hair follicles, usually of the beard), erythrasma (bacterial skin infection causing brown, scaly patches), etc.
Central and Eastern Europe Building Clinical Trial Success | FierceBiotech
Feb 14, 2011 7:38am
Development Teams Benefit From Tougher Investigator Standards and Active Patient Populations, Finds Cutting Edge Information
RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, NC--(Marketwire - February 9, 2011) - Clinical trial sites in Central and Eastern Europe have high investigator standards and strong patient interest, making them a prime location for conducting clinical trials, according to a new study by Cutting Edge Information.
* Accelerate patient recruitment
* Increase patient retention
* Reduce costs based on comparative advantages
* Protect intellectual property
* Improve clinical trial data quality
Study information is available at http://www.cuttingedgeinfo.com/eastern-europe-clinical-trials/. A presentation of study findings is available at http://slidesha.re/clinical-trials-cee.
In its ongoing drive to streamline EMV terminal testing, Fime is launching the next generation of its market-leading terminal integration testing and certification solution, Savvi.
By connecting the host simulator and terminal testing, the solution automates the test project for all involved. This will save acquiring host managers and terminal integration testers significant time and money during product development and certification when conducting terminal integration testing for major payment systems.
Payment systems simulator – SAVVI Test Host – which immediately delivers acquirer host logs to remote testers. This enables instant test result analysis on SAVVI's Test Platform and removes the need for host administrators to manually search for this data and send to each tester.
A pocket-sized portable card emulator and reader – FIME Card Emulator – that enables card logs to be captured automatically and instantly uploaded to SAVVI's Test Platform, which in turn automatically analyzes the results. The tool has been recognized as a 2015 SESAME award finalist.
SAVVI is an automated test process and certification management solution for acquiring host managers and terminal integration testers seeking to deploy new or updated EMV payment terminals. It identifies the relevant test cases, provides test process guidance, analyzes and validates test results, offers immediate access to acquirer host logs and generates and submits test reports according to the brands' requirements. In addition to the FIME Card Emulator, SAVVI also supports physical and programmable test cards. The suite of tools is designed to support the unique needs of individual market players.
Anytime a patient is anesthetized and knocked out unconscious during a procedure, whether that procedure be a quick wisdom tooth extraction or a spinal fusion, the most important part of that surgery is maintaining an airway. This may seem obvious, but if you think about it, a patient is out unconscious and cannot tell the medical team that he or she cannot breath or is having trouble breathing. This means that the surgical team and medical tea needs to check constantly and ensure that the patient is able to breath and receiving oxygen.
When a patient is not receiving enough oxygen during a surgery, it can easily be medical malpractice. This is through the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur, which is a legal doctrine that states the mere happening is a finding of negligence against the defendant. To be entitled to res ipsa loquitur, or to prove that it applies, a victim must prove that 1) the defendant was in exclusive control of the instrumentality which caused the harm, 2) the act that occurs does not occur but for negligence, and 3) the victim did not cause the harm.
In cases where the anesthetized patient is injured or even killed by a failure to maintain an airway, res ipsa loquitur will almost always apply. Of the elements, the easiest to prove is that the victim did not cause the harm. This is because the victim was anesthetized so he or she could not cause the harm.
Next easiest is that the defendants were in exclusive control of the instrumentality. The instrumentality could mean the patient himself or herself, and the airway, or the apparatus providing the oxygen such as the mask, tanks, or incubation tube. Exclusive control does not mean the defendant is the only one, but it can be shared amongst the entire surgical team in the operating room.
EHA continues to dedicate its efforts to guiding hematologists in both clinical and research settings.
Although face-to-face interactions are an important aspect of any congress, the current pandemic severely limits the possibilities. A core objective of EHA is to provide a platform for networking and connecting hematologists and EHA2021 will be no different. We will strive to maximize opportunities to promote the social side of our congress for our participants.
The EHA2021 Virtual Congress will be a key moment to consolidate the knowledge and experience gained worldwide and bring together hematologists in a virtual environment.
Hosting a virtual congress brings challenges and at the same time opens new possibilities. You can expect an interactive program dedicated to clinical research and practice, basic and translational research, as well as the important collaborations with stakeholders beyond hematology.
EHA2021: Stay tuned to immerse yourself once again in the latest news in hematology and its subspecialties:
EHA2021 knows no bounds and is intended for medical professionals, national hematology societies, patient groups, medical industry, and media worldwide.
The EHA25 Virtual Congress evolved from a physical meeting at its conception to a fully-fledged Virtual Congress due to the ongoing pandemic. Head to this page to get an impression of the past EHA25. EHA2021 will build on the legacy of EHA25 and will continue to be hosted virtually, aiming to reach every corner of the world.
8 great tips for older adults to sleep better at night - After Fifty Living
8 great tips for older adults to sleep better at night
By AFL Staff on	 01/04/2019 No Comments	/ 1873 views
A good night's sleep is just as important as regular exercise and a healthy and balanced diet, especially as get older.
According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), well over a third of American adults sleep less than the recommended 7 hours per night. One reason is that most of us don't prioritize rest. We don't make room in our busy schedule for those necessary 7 to 9 hours of sleep required for a healthy brain and body. The second reason is that even when we do our best to sleep, things don't always go as planned and we don't sleep well.
Poor sleep habits can also cause weight gain and increase disease risk in both adults and children.
Here are 8 great tips to sleep better at night.
Set aside no more than eight hours for sleep. The recommended amount of sleep for a healthy adult is at least seven hours. Go to bed and get up at the same time every day. Try to limit the difference in your sleep schedule on weeknights and weekends to no more than one hour. Being consistent reinforces your body's sleep-wake cycle.
Reduce or Avoid Caffeine Late in the Day
When consumed late in the day, coffee stimulates your nervous system and may stop your body from naturally relaxing at night.
In one recent study, consuming caffeine up to six hours before bed significantly worsened sleep quality.
Make sure your bedroom is quiet, dark, and cool,
and your bed is comfortable. We often become more sensitive to noise as we age, and light and heat can also cause sleep problems. Using a sound machine, ear plugs, or a sleep mask can help.
Taking a bath, playing music, or practicing a relaxation technique such as meditation or deep breathing can help you wind down before bed.
Swimming/water exercises
drugs allow sleep but inhibit the deep sleep that we need. One exception is melatonin, an enzyme which lets the brain know that it's time to sleep. It aids in falling asleep but does not keep you in that state.
in natural sunlight for at least 30 minutes daily. Aim for morning sunlight. Turn down lights before bedtime, avoiding blue LED light.
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) - Official Text | Pushex.net
The GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) is a recent regulation for the EU, which is planning to replace the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive (DPD) in order to completely upgrade the security of individual information of EU citizens and increment the obligations of companies and organizations that gather and/or process individual information. GDPR will become effective on 25 May 2018 and will be valid to all member states
GDPR Compliance and Extent
While the present EU legislation (the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive) represents articles inside the EU, the regional extent of the GDPR is far more broad in that it will likewise apply to non-EU organizations who: 1) showcase their items to individuals in the EU or who 2) Track the conduct of individuals in the EU. At the end of the day, even if you are based outside of the EU and you control or process the information of EU individuals, the GDPR will apply to you.
Our dedication toward GDPR
We are completely dedicated to maintaining the protection and privileges of our clients and their customers. The quintessence of the GDPR is in complete sync with our core values of customer information security and trust. In light of that, we are currently moving in the direction of characterizing our guide for GDPR to redesign our frameworks and procedures in accordance with the standards. We are focused on accomplishing GDPR compliance by 25 May 2018.
Pushex Features Geared toward GDPR Compliance
Our Customer's information security remains our primary target. Our IT engineers work day and night to guarantee that our client information is secure yet effortlessly accessible. While we are always improving our security parameters to stay within the GDPR rules, Pushex also incorporates, the following capabilities for ensuring individual information and protection:
Anonymize IP address: By default, Pushex never catches the full IP address of your site guests. IP Retargeting has been disabled in order to guarantee that your site push-notification endorsers are completely anonymous.
Consent: By Default, Web Push Notifications require site guests to consent by permitting notifications to appear in browser.
Subscriber information: After accepting the notifications, the push notification administration of the browser generates a random ID for the client. This ID cannot be utilized in order to find a specific person.
Information rights of Pushex clients
Our clients can ask for access to information put away on the Pushex's servers. End-clients can likewise get in touch with us at info@pushex.io in the event that they require help with disabling Pushex notifications from a site they bought in to.
Get out the bug spray: Diseases carried by insect “vectors” such as ticks, fleas, and mosquitos are on the rise in the United States. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported this week that cases of vector-borne diseases tripled from 2004 to 2016. And over that time period, as global travel has increased, eight new diseases have emerged here, including Zika and chikungunya.
Although some of the spike is probably due to increased disease surveillance, the threat, the report’s authors note, is becoming increasingly urgent—even as funding to fight vector-borne diseases remains dangerously inadequate: Four-fifths of control agencies “lack critical prevention and control capacities,” according to the report.
Mostly, the work of controlling vector-borne infections falls on state and county health departments. In addition to running insect-control programs and educating the public about how best to avoid getting bitten, local public health officials must evaluate every reported case, says the New York Department of Health’s Bryon Backenson, an epidemiologist who has been studying tick-borne disease for 26 years. At the beginning of his career in the early 1990s, Backenson recalls, New York state had about 2,000 annual cases of Lyme disease, a tick-borne illness that can cause serious neurological damage if not treated promptly. Now the state averages 7,000 to 8,000 infections per year. “That’s where the burden comes in,” he says. “That volume is a substantial amount of work.” The CDC does provide some funding “for epidemiology and lab capacity,” but “the sheer number of cases is a concern.”
William K. Reisen, an emeritus medical entomology professor in the School of Veterinary Medicine at the University of California-Davis, points out that because insect control efforts are often funded by property taxes, sparsely populated areas are particularly hard hit. “For West Nile virus, some of the highest incidence is in the Dakotas—well, no one lives there hardly,” he says. “So it’s hard to get the money to control those mosquitoes.”
How to fight Alzheimer's with a brain health check | Health and Wellness | heraldextra.com
While deaths caused by heart disease are on the decline, those caused by Alzheimer's continue to rise. But, with early detection, you can treat the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias and live a happy life.
