In-home therapy is a proven method of treatment for families facing behavioral health issues. Learn more about this treatment type.
If your child or teen is experiencing issues such as low self-esteem or other behavioral issues, counselors are great resources for resolving these concerns.
Posted in Behavioral Healthcare | Tags: Behavioral Health Services, Community Support, drug abuse, mental health, Programs, school, teenagers, therapy

Faces of a city block and their extension between city blocks. Data Standards Catalogue. Real Betis Sevilla Hallein Saalfelden. Views Read Edit View history. Retrieved 26 September
What does PLZ stand for? List of 14 PLZ definitions. Top PLZ abbreviation meanings updated July Plz post screenshots of the Ctrl-ESC + power BIOS recovery? My Inspiron went dead after upgrading the bios to version The power LED would come on, but nothing else. Even the LCD diagnostic of pressing "D" and the power button did nothing. After trying many things, I discovered that when I remove the CMOS battery, and then put iot. Looking for the definition of PLZ? Find out what is the full meaning of PLZ on kepierhall-hls.com! 'Please' is one option -- get in to view more @ The Web's largest and most authoritative acronyms and abbreviations resource.
Home » Research Archive » 2009 Research Archive » Understanding and Preventing Teen Pregnancy
Recently, the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy profiled teen births using the National Vital Statistics Reports for 2006, the most recent data available. State-by-state rates, also calculated per 1,000 girls aged 15 to 19, ranged from a low of 18.7 in New Hampshire to a high of 68.4 in Mississippi. In 2006, the U.S. teen birth rate was 41.9, double the rates in England, Canada, and Wales, and eight times the rates in Japan and the Netherlands.
Experts are worried that the U.S. national rate may be ticking upward. Between 2005 and 2006, the teen birth rate increased for the first time in 15 years, moving up 3 percent, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. Would you like to continue reading? Subscribers please click here to continue reading. If you are not a subscriber, please click here to purchase this article or to obtain a subscription to ASBJ. Increase Font
Functional Analysis of Interferon Responsiveness in PBMC from SLE Donors Identifies Subgroups with Higher and Lower Disease Activity - ACR Meeting Abstracts
Keywords: anti-dsDNA, flow cytometry, interferons and toll-like receptors, SLE
Interferons (IFN) reportedly are central to SLE pathogenesis and increased expression of IFN regulated genes (the 'IFN signature') is associated with active disease. Clinical utility of the IFN signature is unclear, and refinement to define further patient subgroups may improve disease management. Toll-like receptor (TLR) activation leads to IFNα induction. To increase understanding of the role of IFNs in SLE pathobiology, and connectivity between IFN and TLR signaling, functional profiling of immune signaling downstream of IFNα, IFNγ and TLR modulators in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of SLE donors was performed and compared with signaling in healthy donors (HD).
Single Cell Network Profiling (SCNP) is a multiparametric flow cytometry based technology that enables simultaneous analysis of signaling networks in multiple immune cell subsets. PBMC from 60 SLE patients (meeting ACR criteria (2007), SELENA SLEDAI ≥6) and 59 HD were profiled by SCNP, interrogating IFN modulated JAK-STAT signaling and TLR modulated signaling relevant to SLE. CD4+/- CD45RA+/- T cells, CD20+ B cells, CD14+ monocytes and CD11b+ myeloid dendritic cells were profiled (see Table 1).
Intracellular Reads
Cell Subsets Analyzed
p-STAT1, p-STAT3, p-STAT5
Pam3CSK4 (TLR1/2)
p-ERK, p-p38, Ikb, p-c-Jun, p-CREB
LPS (TLR4)
R848 (TLR7/8)
B cells, Monocytes, mDCs
CpG-C (TLR9)
p-AKT, p-ERK, p-S6, IkB, p-STAT3
Table 1. Overview of nodes and cell subsets interrogated
IFNα and IFNγ modulated p-STAT1, -3 and -5 signaling was more heterogeneous in SLE vs HD. An SLE subgroup demonstrated low IFNα/high IFNγ signaling in lymphocytes and monocytes. Based on low IFNα->p-STAT5 /high IFNγ->p-STAT1 modulated signaling in B cells, the SLE-IFN subgroup was defined as outside the 95 percentile (z-score>+/-1.96) of HD, comprising 20 of 60 SLE samples.
The SLE-IFN subgroup was 9.4-fold more likely to be positive for anti-dsDNA antibodies (Fisher's exact test p-val<0.001), consistent with published data on the IFN signature and its link to disease activity, and supporting the clinical relevance of this observation. Significant associations with ANA Ab positivity (p=0.04), report of a new rash (p=0.03) and age (p=0.04) were also identified. No significant associations with other clinical or demographic parameters were identified.
Strikingly, the members of the SLE-IFN subgroup displayed higher TLR7/8 modulated signaling in B cells (Wilcoxon test p=0.003-0.03, depending on the intracellular readout), and dendritic cells (p=0.03), but not in monocytes. Moreover, TLR9 signaling was lower in B cells (p=0.02), and TLR1/2 and TLR4 modulated signaling was lower in monocytes (p=0.003-0.01).
These data identify potential connectivity in immune signaling across cell subsets and signaling pathways that underlie disease pathobiology and further define SLE donor subgroups. Refinement of the IFN signature in SLE through SCNP may facilitate the clinical applicability of the signature to better inform patient stratification for treatment options.
Nodality Inc.,
ACR Meeting Abstracts - https://acrabstracts.org/abstract/functional-analysis-of-interferon-responsiveness-in-pbmc-from-sle-donors-identifies-subgroups-with-higher-and-lower-disease-activity/
2017 state of the ACO value-based model and its market evolution
Successfully enabling an accountable care organization is extremely challenging: There isn't one standard ACO model; there isn't one single ACO national policy; there isn't one specific map to follow to build an ACO nor measure its success. There are few if any best practices readily available for healthcare organizations to adopt and make a successful transition to value-based care within an ACO model. READ MORE
Applications open for CMS' Next Generation ACO Model
CMS is now taking applications for participation in the 2018 Next Generation Accountable Care Organization Model, according to the American Hospital Association. Organizations seeking to participate must submit a non-binding letter of intent by May 4. Applications are then to be submitted in two stages. A narrative portion of the application is due May 18, followed by the proposed Next Generation Participant Provider lists and a list of Next Generation ACO Service Areas due June 9. READ MORE
Republican plan will give young people a break on health insurance
The left's latest complaint about House Republicans' plan to repeal and replace Obamacare is that it unfairly raises insurance premiums for older Americans. The GOP's draft bill, which leaked on February 24, would do away with Obamacare's community rating rule, which prevents insurers from charging older patients any more than three times what they charge younger ones. READ MORE
Having just left private practice as an OB/GYN, and fresh off the campaign trail, I have talked to thousands of people about healthcare issues. For more-than 25 years, the most common concern I've heard, and have tried to help solve, is from folks who have a preexisting health condition, and must get their health insurance outside of an employer. READ MORE
Nearly 20 percent of LinkedIn users name health insurance a primary factor in job hunt
Almost 1 in 5 U.S. LinkedIn members cited health insurance as the main reason for accepting, departing or remaining at their job, according to a monthly LinkedIn survey. Approximately 1,010 users across several industries took part in the company survey last month. The questionnaire included inquiries about health insurance plans and how differing benefits affected respondents' job outlook. READ MORE
Here's how to get your kids to eat well and avoid eating disorders
A friend's 8-year-old daughter packs her own lunch for school. One day, her dad noticed that lunch consisted of a single cherry tomato, one slice of apple and one spoonful of yogurt. When asked, the child replied that she didn't think she'd be hungry at school. My friend wanted to know: Was this the beginning of problem eating? READ MORE
Precision credulity: How specious genetic tests might motivate real behavior change
The ready availability of genetic testing has created a contradictory set of challenges. On the one hand, there are data suggesting that some patients don't modify their behavior even after genetic testing indicates they might be at increased risk for a condition, such as lung cancer or skin cancer, a risk that could be mitigated through deliberate behavior change. READ MORE
Until recently, genomics was a "read-only" science, but scientists have developed a tool for quick and easy deletion of DNA in living cells. This software will boost efforts to understand the vast regions of non-coding DNA, or "Dark Matter," in our DNA and may lead to discovery of new disease-causing genes and potential new drugs. READ MORE
University of California - Los Angeles via ScienceDaily
Head injuries can adversely affect hundreds of genes in the brain that put people at high risk for diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, post-traumatic stress disorder, stroke, ADHD, autism, depression and schizophrenia, life scientists report. The researchers have identified for the first time potential master genes which they believe control hundreds of other genes that are linked to many neurological and psychiatric disorders. READ MORE
Young people who spend a lot of time on social media — websites designed to bring people together — seem to be more isolated, new research suggests. Ironically, the researchers found that the heaviest users of social media had about twice the odds of feeling socially isolated compared to their less "web-connected" friends. The findings "remind us that social media is not a panacea for people who feel socially isolated," said study lead author Dr. Brian Primack. READ MORE
American Psychological Association via ScienceDaily
People seeking help for mental disorders are more likely to refuse or not complete the recommended treatment if it involves only psychotropic drugs, according to a review of research published by the American Psychological Association. Researchers conducted a meta-analysis of 186 studies of patients seeking help for mental health issues that examined whether they accepted the treatment that was recommended and if they did, whether they completed it. READ MORE
Cancer patients may ease fatigue more effectively with exercise and psychotherapy than with medication, a recent study suggests. Researchers examined data from 113 previously published studies involving more than 11,500 cancer patients with fatigue. Patients were randomly assigned to treat their exhaustion with exercise or psychotherapy, or both, or with drugs. READ MORE
Study: Soy doesn't worsen breast cancer and may prevent it
Breast cancer patients who eat the most soy foods are also less likely to die early, a new study finds. Researchers found women who ate the most soy foods were 21 percent less likely to die over 9.5 years than women who ate the least. And, contrary to some fears, soy had no bad effects on women with breast cancer fueled by the hormone estrogen, the study found. READ MORE
Noctiva approved for frequent urination at night
Noctiva nasal spray has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat frequent urination at night due to excess urine production. Norturia, the medical term for getting up at night to urinate, can be caused by factors such as congestive heart failure, diabetes, certain medications or diseases of the bladder or prostate, the agency said in a news release. READ MORE
Would Trump's FDA deregulation create an age of miracles? Don't bet on it
In his first address to a joint session of Congress, President Donald Trump made a dramatic appeal for lowering the hurdles new medicines face in gaining approval from the Food and Drug Administration. But Trump's promises – that reduced regulatory standards would result in more cures reaching the market and lower drug prices – may be hard to keep. READ MORE
The Mind-Body Connection - My Empowerment Place
by Barbra Hormann | Aug 31, 2016 | Uncategorized | 0 comments
Taking good care of yourself is a powerful way to get a hold on and maintain your emotional and mental health. Your mind and body have a strong connection; this is one of the reasons why when you develop your physical health, you will automatically experience greater emotional and mental well-being. Daily choices as well as the activities that you engage in can greatly affect the way you feel emotionally and physically. The following are some tips that will strengthen you mind-body connection and improve your overall health.
Get Adequate Rest- In order to maintain good emotional and mental health, the first thing that you need to do is to take good care of yourself, especially your body. Having enough rest and getting adequate hours of sleep is highly recommended, especially with teenagers. Individuals need 7-8 hours of sleep every night to function optimally. If you have enough hours of sleep, you can be sure that you are one step closer to your optimal health.
Eat Well- You need to learn how to have a well-balanced diet. Many people are unaware of how large of a role nutrition actually plays in our moods and our mental health. It may be difficult for you to follow this diet in the beginning but it will surely pay off in the long run.
Exercise- Regular exercise will not just strengthen your lungs and heart, it also has the potential to release endorphins within your body. Endorphins are powerful chemicals that are responsible for energizing the body as well as lifting the mood of people. According to studies, exercise is considered to be a powerful antidote for depression, anxiety and stress. You can look for simple ways that you can add exercise into your daily activities such as taking the stairs instead of using the elevator or you can also go on short walks. It only takes 30 minutes of daily exercise to see benefits.
Get a Small Dose of Sunlight- Sunlight has the ability to lift your mood. The best thing that you can do is to get a small dose of sunlight each day for about 10-15 minutes. This can also be done while you are socializing, gardening and exercising.
Limit Alcohol and Tobacco- Apart from drinking alcohol, it is also important to avoid using drugs and cigarettes. These are well known stimulants that have the ability to let your feel good for a short period of time, however they have long term negative effects, especially for your emotional health and mood.
Fast food is fat food – Trans-fat is a deadly fat. It is the very definition of unhealthy. Consuming foods that contains it increases the bad cholesterol in the body and it elevates greatly the chances of heart attack and diabetes
Eating high sodium foods makes you overeat – Research has found out that food that is high in salt, like French fries does not really make you thirsty, but hungry.
Eating fast foods can be a trigger for respiratory problems – When you eat fast foods, and lots of it you can easily become obese. Obesity is what makes our lungs fail because of the added pressure in our bodies which leads to shortness of breath and asthma.
Podcasts360 · Harrys A. Torres, MD, on Hepatitis C Screening for Patients With Cancer
Torres HA, Angelidakis G, Jiang Y, et al. Serologic vs. molecular testing for screening for hepatitis C virus infection in patients with hematologic malignancies with and without prior hematopoietic cell transplant recipients. Paper presented at: IDWeek 2020; October 21-25, 2020; Virtual. https://www.eventscribe.com/2020/IDWeek/fsPopup.asp?efp=VFhWUUpXVFA2ODg4&PosterID=292366&rnd=0.8516078&mode=posterinfo.
Harrys A. Torres, MD, is an infectious diseases physician at MD Anderson Cancer Center and an associate professor in the Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition at the University of Texas in Houston.
The prevalence of chronic hepatitis C virus infection among patients with cancer in the United States has been reported to be 1.5% overall and up to 10.6% in specific subgroups. Testing for hepatitis C virus antibody is a low-cost diagnostic method in widespread use worldwide. However, the optimal screening test for hepatitis C virus among patients with cancer has not been established. In a new study presented at IDWeek 2020, researchers sought to identify the optimal screening test for hepatitis C virus in this patient population.
We're joined today by the lead author on the study, Dr Harrys Torres, who is an infectious diseases physician at MD Anderson Cancer Center and an associate professor in the Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition at the University of Texas in Houston.
Thank you so much for joining me today, Dr Torres. To start, can you tell us more about your study and its findings?
Harrys Torres: Thank you for inviting me. It's very exciting opportunity. The study is about hepatitis C and how we test patients with cancer. I practice at MD Anderson, which is a major referral center in the United States.
What is still unclear is how do we screen these patients for hepatitis C. The title of the study is "Serologic vs molecular testing for screening for hepatitis C virus infection in patients with hematologic malignancies with and without prior hematopoietic cell transplant recipients."
And what we know is hepatitis C is carcinogenic, and it's associated with several types of malignancy, not only liver cancer. It also can cause some significant problems, including morbidity and mortality, in cancer patients. And it's estimated that the patients with cancer in the United States have a prevalence of hepatitis C between 1.5 and up to 10.6, as we have recently reported in [indecipherable 1:55] cancer patients.
This is of importance to multiple societies, including the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), because we know that these can affect cancer patients, and the reason ASCO recommendations and guidelines—I'm one of the authors there—what is recommended is to do a universal screening in cancer patients for 3 main reasons.
Number one is because we know that we're going to screen patients only based on the birth cohort or the risk-based screening; we're going to miss at least one-third of the patients.
The problem is when we miss hepatitis C, these patients may develop reactivation of the infection, interruption of cancer due to that progression of fibrosis and cirrhosis, and some of these patients may develop a second primary cancer.
We also know that direct-active antivirals (DAAs) can eradicate most of the infection in these patients. We know that up to 91% to 95% of these patients, even with cancer, can get virologic cure of hepatitis C.
Universal screening is now recommended by the 2020 USPSTF recommendations. So it's really recommended to screen all adults, and that's what we have been doing at MD Anderson, at least since 2016.
We also know that by treating these infections, we can improve different types of outcomes on these patients. We can normalize the liver function tests. A very important point for cancer patients is that we cannot increase access to clinical trials for cancer care.
We can also increase access to bone marrow transplant. We can prevent reactivation, and a very important point for our oncologists is that we can improve the overall survival—not only the liver-related survival but the overall survival under these [indecipherable 2:46] survival in these patients. So there are important oncologic end points that we can improve by treating the hepatitis C.
The challenge is what to use for that. And we know that there are 2 different types of assays approved for diagnosis of hepatitis C. One is a serologic assay that detects hepatitis C antibody, and the second is a molecular assay that detects the hepatitis C RNA quantitative.
The cost is completely different in most countries. For example, in the United States, we know that the cost of serologic assays is between $0.50 and $1.70 vs in the molecular essays, which is between $30 and $200—depends on where you're getting that test done.
And the US national guidelines recommend screening with antibody in both immunocompetent and immunocompromised patients. But they only immunocompromised patient population that is included on these recommendations is the HIV population. So we don't really know how these well as applicable to cancer patients, including bone marrow transplant patients.
The background of this study is trying to identify the most appropriate screening test for chronic hepatitis C in patients who have cancer, any type of cancer, and with or without transplant.
What we did here is we enrolled prospectively all patients coming to the hematologic clinic at MD Anderson, including the lymphoma clinic, myeloma, leukemia, stem cell transplant. We enrolled these patients between February 2019 and November 2019. They had to be adults with any type of malignancy with or without transplant.
What we did is, at the same time when the patients were coming for cancer care, we screened them simultaneously for hepatitis C RNA and hepatitis C antibody. The hepatitis C antibody was performed by using the ARCHITECT Anti-HCV assay by Abbot Laboratories, with a specificity of 99.6 and sensitivity of 99.1.
This is a commercially available assay, and we also used an older commercially available assay for hepatitis C quantitative. We used a hepatitis C RNA test called the cobas® HCV test by Roche Molecular Systems.
The quantitative range between 15 and 100 million international units or ML. The interpretation [indecipherable 5:20] If the patient has positive antibody and positive RNA, the patient is infected.
What we were looking for in particular were patients with seronegative infection, meaning that patients who have negative antibody and positive RNA. Those are specifically the ones we were looking for.
And what we did is we calculated the power of the study on the basis of the diagnostic performance of these 2 tests—the antibody and the RNA—in HCV-infected patients. Unfortunately, we didn't have data on any other immunocompromised population. So, we have to use the data on HIV-infected patients.
We have found in the literature that 6.9% of patients were tested negative for hepatitis C antibody. However, they were infected because they had detectable RNA. We used for a statistical analysis, the McNemar test where 214 patients were needed to enroll with a yield of 90% of power to detect significant difference.
The agreement between the 2 tests was [indecipherable 6:24] Cohen Kappa statistical analysis and the McNemar test. These tests were performed. The study was funded in part by Merck Inc. and also by the NCI (National Cancer Institute), partially for each of these 2 groups. This study sponsors have no role in study design, collection, analysis, or interpretation of the data.
We did 214 patients, as was requested for the enrollment. The median age was 64 years old, and year of age within range between 27 and 84 years.
Most patients were male, with a 69%. Most patients were Caucasian, with 84%. Eight percent of the patients were Black. Most patients had lymphoid malignancies, with 70% of them. Seven percent of the patients had bone marrow transplant.
And what we found is, in terms of the diagnostic performance, we identified of the 214 patients evaluated, 3 patients had positive hepatitis C antibodies and 2 patients had positive hepatitis C RNA test. The overall percentage agreement was 99.5%, with a confidence interval of 97.4 to 99.9.
Of the 3 patients with positive hepatitis C antibody test results, 2 had positive RNA and one had negative RNA. There were no cases, so seronegative hepatitis C infection. The positive agreement between the two tests was 66.7%, and the negative percentage agreement was 100%.
In brief, we identified in 3 patients with hepatitis C antibody, 2 patients with hepatitis C RNA, and the agreement was 99.5%. And the Cohen Kappa coefficient was 0.80, indicating substantial agreement between the hepatitis C antibody and the hepatitis C RNA.
Why is this important? This is important because this is the first prospective study comparing different methods for hepatitis C screening in cancer patients. We found that serologic and molecular testing have similar diagnostic performance in this patient population. We also found that there were no cases of seronegative hepatitis C infection, meaning false negative hepatitis C infection, if we use only hepatitis C antibody.
And this is important because seronegative hepC infection may have significant implications in cancer care, including [indecipherable 8:59] chronic hepC infection that may lead to multiple complications.
And why is this important? This is really important because WHO has set the goal to eliminate hepatitis might 2030. One of the most efficient strategies that WHO mentioned is to eliminate the hep C by 2030 is to expand hep C testing, that 90% of people can get screened and also offered treatment. So, our findings favor the use of hepatitis C antibody—a relatively affordable test to be used worldwide to screen hepatitis C, even in cancer patients.
Our study is limited by the power—that was low, 214 patients only. Unfortunately, the sample size, even though was based on the power we use for HIV-positive studies, is still a low power. That has to do probably with the fact that the individuals we used to calculate the power were HIV-infected patients.
We know that they are immunocompromised, but at the same time, they are patients at high risk for hepatitis C infection, which is not necessarily the case for cancer patients.
Also, we expect that different results may be expected if serologic and molecular assays are different from the one we used are used on different studies. Another detail from our study is that we were not able to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis. And the reason is that granted that with the special pricing for laboratory testing not reflect the true market price.
In conclusion, we know that the diagnostic yield for screening of hepatitis C in severely immunocompromised cancer patients is similar for serologic and molecular testing, and the use of diagnostic methods with low cost like hepatitis C antibody will contribute, even in cancer patients, to the long-term goal of eliminating hepC in the United States and globally.
Amanda Balbi: And what is the next step in this research?
Harrys Torres: The next step here is to take these to other institutions. So, we do have a consortium with other NCI cancer centers in the United States and also some other cancer centers globally, including in France, Canada, and Italy. The plan is now to expand this to other institutions as well, so they will know how to screen these patients and they will also apply to their own centers. And, certainly, that will allow us to validate our findings in the multinational setting.
Amanda Balbi: Thank you so much for speaking with me today and answering my questions.
Harrys Torres: Thank you, Amanda, for inviting me.
Harrys A. Torres, MD, on Hepatitis C Screening for Patients With Cancer https://consultant360.com/node/31969
Clinic Details: Outpatient Addiction Treatment provides a range of integrated services and offers recovering persons hope and support. Clients may come to outpatient services from a residential program, from tribes throughout the United States, and as referred by other local partners to participate in services matched to their specific recovery needs. Services are offered throughout the day and in the evenings to allow greater access.

Clinic Details: In 2004, residents of the neighborhoods of Pilsen and Little Village on Chicago’s southwest side joined administrators from nearby Saint Anthony Hospital to address the critical lack of accessible health services in the area. They opened a community health center on South California Avenue called Esperanza, the Spanish word for “hope.” Today, Esperanza provides bilingual, high quality primary care, behavioral health and wellness services to the community, regardless of immigration status, insurance status, or ability to pay. Esperanza’s three sites in Little Village (South Lawndale) and Marquette Park (Chicago Lawn) deliver care to over 20,000 patients each year from communities across the Southwest side.
Pediatric Services: Sick and well-child care visits, and school physicals; Immunizations; TB tests; Obesity and asthma counseling; After-hours pediatric services
Women's Health Services: Annual Exams; Pap Smears; Breast cancer screening and linkage to mammography; Pregnancy Testing; Prenatal Care; Breastfeeding Support; HIV and STI testing and counseling; Cervical Cancer prevention and early treatment; Family Planning
Summary of Day #1 of the Interdisciplinary Summerschool on Privacy // Jaap-Henk Hoepman
« De Privacy Maffia versus de Big Data Baronnen
Summary of Day #2 of the Interdisciplinary Summerschool on Privacy »
Also new are the right of erasure (the right to be forgotten) and the right to data portability. The latter right allows users to obtain a structured, machine readable copy of all the personal data stored by a service.
For example, this gives Facebook users the right to request a full copy of their personal profile, in order for them to move their profile to a different social network, like Diaspora!
Care robots appear, on first look, to be great to support disabled and aging people for living at home. But isn't this in reality 24/7 surveillance, because you keep all the data possible to train the robot and make the robot better?
How can smart cities, ambient environments be matched with the data protection ideal of privacy as individual rights to prior informed control of collection of data. If you move public/private environments (like smart cities) you don't have a contract regulating the collection and use of your personal data. The only choice you have is to withdraw from public life.
Do IoT systems collect personal data? Personal data (in GDPR terms) must relate to a natural person. But originally the Internet of Things was about RFID tags attached to things (not persons). Many systems therefore claim that the data is anonymised – but the risk of re-identification is quite real in many cases (see above) when several data streams are combined.
Companies prefer consent because of public perception: it is making them more trustful and reliable. But many objects you use, especially ones you use implicitly, don't have user interfaces that allow you to give explicit, informed, consent. Suppose a chair is collecting information about how long you were sitting on it. Then consent could (theoretically) be given by having a sign on the chair saying that by sitting down (an explicit action) you consent to this. But then the information given to you about the processing can only be very superficial and can hardly be called informed. (An approach could be to develop privacy icons that do convey most relevant information in a concise form.) And what if all objects around you become smart and require your explicit and informed consent? That would become quickly unmanageable!
Perhaps we need special rules for location data, because it is considered very sensitive. (But it is not classified as sensitive data in the GDPR, unfortunately.) There is law to regulate the use of location data collected by mobile phones (in the ePrivacy directive). But this does not regulate for example the collection of location data by Google Streetview (but this is not location data; and it is not collected by a terminal equipment of a user).
In general, the ePrivacy directive was not created to protect against risks associated with the Internet of Things. But in the context of location based services, consent is required to process location data. Question is, is an RFID tag 'terminal equipment' (which would make the ePrivacy directive applicable).
Scientific Qi Exploration-12 | Yang-Sheng.com
← Taiji: Life-Nurturing Martial Art
Santi Standing: Setting Up and Refining →
Part 12: Qigong and the Cardiovascular System
Marty Eisen Ph. D.
The effects of Qigong on blood pressure appear in Section 2. Section 3 presents studies on heart rate and rhythm. Cardiac output effects appear in Section 4. Some results for heart output and blood supply of the whole body appear in Section 5. Section 6 describes effects on the mic rocirculation. The alterations in the blood supply to the brain and its vessels are explored in Section 7. Finally, the effect on rapid, large changes in altitude appears in Section 8. These physiological effects depend on the type of Qigong, the intensity of practice, and the level of expertise of the practitioner.
2. Effects on Blood Pressure
Chinese researches have been treating hypertension using Qigong for about 50 years. Thirty-two patients, intolerant to anti-hypertensive drugs, were treated at the Shanghai Institute of Hypertension by practicing Qigong for 6 months. A 1959 report concluded that their symptoms were somewhat improved (1). Another study was conducted in 1962 on the effects of Qigong on 415 hypertensive subjects. The conclusion was that 80.5%, who practiced Qigong regularly, and 17% of those practicing irregularly maintained a stable blood pressure (1).
Another impressive study (2), because of its time extent and number of participants was also carried out at the Shanghai Institute of Hypertension. Subjects were randomly divided into a Qigong group (n = 122) and a control group (n = 120) of non-practitioners. Standard hypertensive drugs were given to both groups. The patients were observed for 30 years. At the end of this time, 47.76% of the control group had died, but only 25.41% of the Qigong group had died. The incidence of stroke in the Qigong and control groups was 20.49% and 40.83%, respectively. The incidence of death due to stroke in the Qigong and control groups was 15.57% and 32.50%, respectively. All of these results were statistically significant. Ultrasound diagnosis on 40 patients revealed that members of the Qigong group had stronger heart muscles and better left ventricular function.
A similar 6- year study with 204 hypertensive subjects was conducted at Xiamen University in Fujian Province. It concludes that a combination of hypertensive drugs and Qigong was 19% more effective than the drugs alone. The mortality rate from all causes was 17.33% and 32% in the Qigong and control groups, respectively. After 6 months of practice, the Qigong practitioners' blood contained higher levels of "good" high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and had less of a tendency to form clots than the control group's blood. The qigong group was also less reactive to stress, with more stable blood pressure (3).
A 1991 research concluded that Qigong practice didn't influence normal systolic pressure but could increase a low diastolic pressure to its normal value. Further research showed that Qigong had a homeostatic effect, restoring balance from either direction, by improving dysfunctions of the nervous system (1).
Another study on the blood pressure of 312 patients, using Health Qigong, was conducted in 2002. After six months, subjects were reported to have decreased blood pressure both while resting and practicing Qigong. These results were more pronounced in patients consistently practicing Qigong, compared to those who did not (1).
A combination of Qigong and biofeedback was used at the Research Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, to treat 639 primary hypertensive patients. Some patients had a significant drop in blood pressure after only one session. Most patients had a significant drop in blood pressure after 8 weeks. The combined therapy was effective for 85.13% of the patients. Most patients followed 3 years did not have access to the biofeedback equipment. However, those who still practiced Qigong, 97.7% had stable, lowered blood pressure (4).
Another modern method for lower blood pressure by squeezing a hand-held device is described in (5). Blood pressure can also be lowered by a simple breathing exercise, which can be aided by a timing device suitable for patients who can't concentrate (6).
The Dean of the Beijing Medical School reported in (7), that Tai chi students have lower blood pressure. Greater cardiac efficiency, as measured by a treadmill test and less abnormal EKG patterns than controls. Other research on the benefits of Tai Chi for the cardiovascular system can be found in (8).
Breath holding or inspiring longer for longer periods than expiring can raise ones blood pressure. This can be dangerous as shown by the following case study (9). A sixty-five year old woman was an avid Qigong practitioner to regulate her blood pressure. After practicing Qigong one morning, she had a stroke. She gradually improved in the hospital, stopped practicing Qigong, and eventually recovered. She wanted to practice Qigong again. For safety, her blood pressure was monitored every 3 minutes during one of her Qigong exercises. In the first three minutes of exercise, her blood pressure increased and remained at an unusually high level for approximately the next thirty-five minutes. It was thought that this was the result of the type of Qigong practiced, which consisted of many isometric elements while holding ones breath.
The study (8) suggests that patients with hypertension should only practice Qigong under the supervision of a physician. They also suggest that hypertensive patients should not practice breath holding while exercising.
3. Effect on Heart Rate and Rhythm
Qigong has a homeostatic effect on heart rhythm . Research (1) has shown that proper Qigong practice by patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia decreased their heart rate from 180-200 beats per minute (bpm) to 70-80 bpm. The heart rate of sinus bradycardia patients would rise to normal limits after practicing Qigong.
Research by Cao et al, published in 1989, studied the heart rate of Qigong practitioners on reaching tranquility (1). After 20 minutes their heart rate decreased statistically significant from an average of 83.5 bpm to 75.3 bpm, and decreased further to 71.2 bpm after 30 minutes. The hear rate decrease lasted for 20 minutes after stopping Qigong. The hear rate of the control group also decreased but was not statistically significant.
Proper Qigong practice can regulate cardiac dysrhythmias such as: premature ventricular contraction, bigeminy, trigeminy, pre-excitation, and conduction block (1). Premature ventricular contraction (PVC) is an early depolarization beginning in the ventricle instead of the usual place, the sinus node. They are very common, and are sometimes perceived as a palpitation. They often occur without the patient being aware of it at all. By themselves, PVC's do not present any problem. Ventricular bigeminy is the occurrence of a PVC every other beat; trigeminy is every third beat. The main point with these types is that the PVC's are more frequent, but are otherwise little different from PVC's. Ventricular tachycardia is defined as three or more consecutive PVC's. This may extend for hours. If it is prolonged and at a high enough rate, it can be serious. However, some people who have these frequently and tolerate them for years.
Normally, the atria and the ventricles are electrically isolated. The electrical contact between them exists only at the atrioventricular node. The normal electrical depolarization wave is delayed at the atrioventricular node to allow the atria to contract before the ventricles. In all pre-excitation syndromes, at least one more conductive pathway is present. There is no such delay in an abnormal pathway. Hence, the electrical stimulus passes to the ventricle by this tract faster than via normal atrioventricular system. Therefore, the ventricles are depolarized (excited) before (pre-) normal conduction system.
A simple breathing exercise may also alleviate arrhythmias (6).
4. Cardiac Output Effect
Cardiac output is the volume of blood ejected by the left ventricle into the aorta in one minute. During the practice of Relaxing Quiescent Qigong the cardiac output declines, probably because of the lower energy consumption. However, research shows that this effect may not be permanent. Once again, Qigong has a homeostatic effect. Cardiac output eventually decreases for those Qigong practitioners with previously high values and increases for those with previously low levels (1).
In a 2006 paper Du et al used an ultrasonic Doppler diagnostic device on 39 subjects practicing Muscle/Tendon Changing Qigong. After 6 months of practice, they discovered that the blood volume per heartbeat, ejection fraction (the percentage of blood ejected from the left ventricle with each heart beat), and cardiac output of the subjects increased in a statistically significant way (1).
5. Effect on Pulse and Total Blood Supply
Once of the first things beginners notice when first starting Qigong is that their fingertips pulsate. This blood flow phenomenon has been used to measure Qigong proficiency. Twenty-two Qigong practitioners and five controls had their fingertip blood flow measured by a laser microcirculation flow meter, while sitting quietly, at the Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics. There was a statistically significant increase in blood flow in the Qigong group, but no significant change in nth control group. When 10 subjects were given 5 sessions more of Qigong training, their new test results were much higher than previously (10).
While practicing Quiescent Qigong, there is a decrease in the pulsations of the temporal artery and an increase in the resistance of the cerebral vessels, besides the fingertip pulsations. This reduction in cerebral blood flow shows an alteration of blood flow in the body (1).
Hand warming often accompanies fingertip pulsations. Some individuals can learn to warm their hands at will. This technique can sometimes result in alleviating migraine headaches and other vascular diseases. Voluntary hand warming was also proposed to allow air force mechanics to work under frigid weather conditions.
The photoelectric earlobe sphygmograph measures blood volume by passing a light beam through the earlobe. Decreased light intensity results from increased blood volume and is displayed as a higher amplitude in the graph on the sphygmograph screen. This device was used in an experiment by researchers from 3 major Chinese laboratories (11). The peripheral blood flow was measured during 48 subjects' waking state and during Qigong meditation. The average amplitude of the sphygmograph wave increased significantly by 30% during Qigong practice, as compared to just being awake. In 8 subjects the amplitude increased over 100% and seemed associated with the ability to enter a deep state of Qigong tranquility.
TCM pulse diagnosis is done by palpating 3 locations on both wrists over the radial artery: Cun (Inch): distal or front at the wrist crease, Guan (Bar): middle, just medial to radial styloid, and Chi (Cubit): proximal or rear. An experienced practitioner can determine the state of the body and its organs, according to TCM theory. According to TCM theory "The slippery pulse comes as soon as Qi arrives and disappears as soon as Qi goes away." Research shows that during Qigong practice subjects usually had a slippery pulse.
The TCM pulses of 2 Qigong Masters were measured using an electropulsograph while one practiced Internal Nourishing Qigong and the other a hard, martial art type. They were asked to direct Qi to the chest, upper and lower abdomen and a variance in the related pulse locations was observed. The variances in the hard Qigong Master were more significant than those observed in the Internal Nourishing Qigong Master (1).
These results suggest a method of exploring the connection between qigong and TCM theory.
6. Effect on Microcirculation
Microcirculation is the blood flow between micro-arteries and micro-veins (capillaries). Studies show that Qigong practice can improve practitioners' microcirculation by changing blood viscosity, increasing elasticity of blood vessels, controlling platelet concentration, accelerating blood flow, raising skin temperature, and increasing the number of micro blood vessels. In 1966, Huang found that cancer patients practicing Guo Lin Qigong increased the microcirculation in their lungs (1).
Other research indicates that the percentage of hypertensive patients suffering from abnormal microcirculation via capillary loops in a nail bed is 67%, much higher than normal, but this abnormality is reduced to 31% after practicing Qigong. Qigong also reduces thickened artery vessels (1).
The change in nail microcirculation was observed for normal subjects after 30 days of Qigong training in another experiment. Before training, 42 out of 154 observed capillaries were crossed and 34 we deformed. After Qigong practice, the number of crossed and deformed capillaries was reduced by 14.3% and 11.2%, respectively. The speed of blood flow was also increased (1).
7. Effects on Elasticity of Cerebral Vessels and Blood Supply
The rheoencephalogram (REG) is a graphic registration of the changes in conductivity of tissue of the head caused by vascular factors. Qigong can improve both the elasticity of cerebral blood vessels and cerebral circulation as shown by REG measurements (1). This may be some of the reasons for Qigong's ability to improve memory, delay senility, prevent cerebral disorders and increase longevity. Brain cells may live longer if they have a better supply of oxygen.
Greater cerebral blood flow may also improve intelligence as shown by the following experiment. In a fourth grade, 85 boys and 85 girls were divided into 4 groups. Two groups did Qigong abdominal respiration while quietly sitting for 2 minutes before each class every day. The control groups were not given any Qigong training. After 6 months, the test scores in language mathematics, and geography increased by 11.95% in the Qigong groups, but did not change significantly in the control groups (12).
8. Effect on large, Rapid Changes in Altitude
Research (13) has been done to determine if Qigong would protect pilots from altitude stress. A group of 32 young men did Qiyuan Qigong for 4 weeks, while a control group of 34 young men did exercise to music. The two groups rapidly ascended into the Tibetan highlands from a low altitude. Before and after entering the highlands, symptoms of altitude sickness and physiological
Parameters were recorded. The Qigong group suffered less altitude stress according to measurements of blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen consumption, micro-circulation on the tongue tip and nail bed, and temperature at the left Laogong point (Pericardium 8).
1. Liu, T., Chen, K. et al., Eds. Chinese Medical Qigong. Singing Dragon, London, 2010.
2. Wong, C. et al. Effects of Qigong on preventing stroke and alleviating the multiple cerebro-cardiovascular risk factors – a follow-up report on 242 hypertensive cases for 30 years. Second World Conf. for Academic Exchange of Med. Qigong, Beijing, p. 123, 1993.
3. Xian, B.H. Clinical observation of 204 patients with hypertension treated with Chinese Qigong. Fifth International Congress of Chinese Medicine and the First International Congress of Qigong, Berkeley, CA, p. 101, 1990.
4. A group observation and experimental research of the prevention and treatment of hypertension by Qigong. First World Conf. for Academic Exchange of Med. Qigong, Beijing, China, p. 113, 1988.
5. Eisen, M. Mechanisms of Qigong and a Modern Blood Lowering Application. Qi Dao, July/Aug., 21- 22, 2007.
6. Eisen, M. Breathing Exercises for Hypertension, Enlarged Prostate and Arrhythmias. Qi Dao, Jan./Feb.,20, 2007.
7. Qu, M. Taijiquan – a medical assessment. Martial Arts of China Magazine.1;5, pp.203-304, 1990.
8. Eisen, M. Qigong and Taiji Application in Stress Management. Part 3: Tai Chi for Stress,
Qi Dao, March./April,14 – 19, 2008.
9. Leung, K. P. et al. Intracerebral Haemorrhage and Qigong. Hong Kong Medical Journal 7.3 , pp 315-318, 2001.
10. Chai, Z. and Wang, B. Influence of Qigong state on blood perfusion rate of human microcirculation. Third National Academic Conference on Qigong Science, Guangzhou, p 116, 1990.
11. Wang, B. The influence of Qigong state on the volume of human peripheral vascular blood flow. Ibid, pp 11-12.
12 Tong, S. and Xe, P. Qigong for increasing learning ability. Fifth Int. Congress of Chinese Medicine and First Int. Congress of Qigong, Berkeley, CA, p. 124, 1990.
13. Mo, F. et al. Study of prevention of cardiac function disorder due to immediate entry into the highlands by Qigong exercise. Proc. Second World Conf. on Academic Exchange of Medical Qigong, Beijing, China, p.76, 1993.
[Dr. Eisen is a retired scientist, who constructed mathematical models in medicine. He has studied and taught Judo, Shotokan Karate, Aikido, Qigong, Praying Mantis Kung Fu, and Tai Chi in different places. He took correspondence courses in Chinese herbology and studied other branches of Chinese medicine with a traditional Chinese medical doctor. He was the Director of Education of the Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture Institute in Upper Darby, PA.]
This entry was posted in Scientific Qi Exploration and tagged cardiovascular, Qigong, system. Bookmark the permalink.
5 Responses to Scientific Qi Exploration-12
Nice writing, in addition, if I may add.. Physical activity can reduce your chances of
contracting colon cancer by around 40%. This is because people who exercise regularly are usually in much better shape, are able to keep a healthier body weight and are also able to avoid cancer-increasing diseases like diabetes. Always work to remain active.
www.diettonya.com says:
I like this article, please allow me to input.
.. One of the most important parts of your skin care
routine after age 40, is gentle cleansing. As you age, the tissues of your face become more delicate.
Special care should be taken when washing your face
to avoid stretching the tissue. Use a small amount of
cleanser and use your fingertips to gentle spread the cleanser in a
circular motion over your face. Rinse with warm, not hot, water and pat dry.
My homepage – irish debs
sign of high blood pressure says:
If you are taking medicine for high blood pressure, but that does
not reduce continually and to better health level, a good reason why
is that there may be:. It's important that a sound, realistic,sustainable,
long-lasting treatment for obesity must be found or nothing
will ever work. These two interventions could lead to a more accurate reading of your blood pressure, and could
