Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP) | Council for Work & Health
OH Workforce group
Physiotherapy is a healthcare profession that works with people to identify & maximise their ability to move & function. Functional movement is a key part of what it means to be healthy and includes the potential to engage safely with work.
Area of occupational health work
Physiotherapists working in occupational health provide rehabilitation of employees with a wide range of health conditions, with a view to restoring individuals' fitness and capability to meet the demands of their job. They deliver services to individuals, groups and organisations on matters relating to occupational health and well-being. Work-based assessments and advice are related to an individuals' particular work activity and include advice regarding adjustments as well as work-hardening activities.
Allied Health Professionals (AHPs) including physiotherapists can complete an AHP Advisory Fitness for Work Report. This tool is available for physiotherapists on the CSP website. The completed AHP Fitness Report is given by a physiotherapist to a patient to discuss with their employer. It comprises tailored recommendations and advice to support decisions to help the employee remain in work or return to work following injury, illness or other intervention.
Practising physiotherapists registered with the Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC) may become members. Healthcare support workers may join as associates.
The CSP holds an annual scientific conference and a range of regional CPD events; mainly for physiotherapists and allied health professionals.
Quality Standards and Regulation
The CSP expects its members to comply with its Code of Professional Values and Behaviour (2012), which sets out the CSP's expectations of its members and the Quality Assurance Standards for the Provision of Physiotherapy Services (2012).
Chartered physiotherapists are regulated by the Health & Care Professions Council.
Promotion of research and service evaluation
Promoting research awareness
The CSP supports members in undertaking research through the Allied Health Professions Research Network, provision of a range of research grants and bursaries, and through close working with HEI's.
Published evidence-based material
The CSP supports high quality research through rigorous review and assessment of contributions to its scientific journal, 'Physiotherapy'.
An information paper on the training needs for AHP Occupational Health advanced practitioners can be found at:
http://www.councilforworkandhealth.org.uk/images/uploads/library/OH%20Advanced%20practitioner%20paper%20final%20August%202011[1].pdf
For more information contact Natalie Beswetherick by email: beswetherickn@csp.org.uk or visit the CSP website.
Honorary President of the Council for Work and Health
The Council for Work and Health is delighted to announce that Professor Diana Kloss has been appointed as Honorary President of The Council for Work and Health.
The drug lamotrigine can reduce the pain that affects some stroke patients, according to a study in the January 23 issue of Neurology, the scientific journal of the American Academy of Neurology. Central post-stroke pain occurs in eight percent of stroke patients and is difficult to treat. The only current treatment, amitriptyline, doesn't work for many patients, and has many side effects.
The pain is felt in areas of the body that have sensory loss from the stroke. Researchers think the pain occurs when the stroke damages the fibers in the brain or in the spinal cord that lead to the thalamus area of the brain. The loss of sensory information to the brain creates a hyperexcitability, or excessive response to stimuli, in that area of the brain.
"Lamotrigine, which has mainly been used for epilepsy patients, reduces hyperexcitability in brain cells, so we wanted to see if it would help people with central post-stroke pain," said study author and neurologist Troels Staehelin Jensen, MD, PhD, of Aarhus University Hospital in Aarhus, Denmark.
For the study, 30 people with central post-stroke pain were given lamotrigine in a randomized, double-blind study. The participants took lamotrigine for eight weeks, waited two weeks with no medication and then took a placebo for eight weeks, or vice versa.
Taking lamotrigine reduced the pain patients felt by an average of 30 percent. Twelve patients' responses were considered clinically significant improvements, with those patients reporting reductions of two or more points on a scale of 0-10 while taking the drug.
While taking lamotrigine, patients had few side effects, including mild rashes and headaches.
"The current treatment for this type of pain -- the antidepressant amitriptyline -- can cause side effects including sedation, low blood pressure and cardiac arrhythmia, so this new treatment is a good option for people who cannot tolerate amitriptyline or don't respond to it," Jensen said.
The study was supported by grants from the Danish Medical Research Council and the Danish Pain Research Center. Glaxo Wellcome, which manufactures lamotrigine, provided the drugs, technical support and covered patients' transportation expenses. A neurologist is a medical doctor with specialized training in diagnosing, treating and managing disorders of the brain and nervous system.
For more information about the American Academy of Neurology, visit its Web site at www.aan.com. For online neurological health and wellness information, visit NeuroVista at www.aan.com/neurovista
The immune system’s tendency to overreact to a harmless substance is thought to be genetic. The term ‘atopy’ describes this genetic tendency. Doctors describe a person who has an allergy as being ‘atopic’ – such people usually have raised levels of IgE in their blood.
What is allergy?, 2015, The Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy. More information here.

Low or persistently high blood glucose levels mean your diabetes treatment needs to be adjusted. Speak to your doctor or registered diabetes healthcare professional.
Prevention is always the best strategy. If it is a while since you have had diabetes education, make an appointment with your diabetes educator for a review.
Diabetes mellitus is a condition characterised by high blood glucose (sugar) levels. Uncontrolled diabetes may lead to a diabetic coma or unconsciousness. The three types of coma associated with diabetes are diabetic ketoacidosis coma, hyperosmolar coma and hypoglycaemic coma.
Diabetic ketoacidosis typically occurs in people with type 1 diabetes, which was previously known as juvenile diabetes or insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), though it can occasionally occur in type 2 diabetes. This type of coma is triggered by the build-up of chemicals called ketones. Ketones are strongly acidic and cause the blood to become too acidic.
When there is not enough insulin circulating, the body cannot use glucose for energy. Instead, fat is broken down and then converted to ketones in the liver. The ketones can build up excessively when insulin levels remain too low.
Common causes of ketoacidosis include a missed dose of insulin or an acute infection in a person with type 1 diabetes. Ketoacidosis may be the first sign that a person has developed type 1 diabetes.
In order to pick up the earliest signs of ketoacidosis, people with type 1 diabetes whose blood glucose levels are particularly high require more frequent monitoring of blood glucose. Checking of ketone levels is also recommended. If available, blood ketone testing is preferred. If blood ketone testing is not available, urine testing may be used.
A diabetic hyperosmolar coma is caused by severe dehydration and very high blood glucose levels (hyperglycaemia).
Those at most risk of this type of coma are people with type 2 diabetes, who have an infection or acute illness and have reduced their intake of fluids.
Mario Strazzabosco | MediFind
About Dr. Mario Strazzabosco
Mario Strazzabosco is a General Practice specialist and an Internal Medicine doctor in New Haven, Connecticut. Dr. Strazzabosco has been practicing medicine for over 39 years and is highly rated in 14 conditions, according to our data. His top areas of expertise are Cholangiocarcinoma, Congenital Hepatic Fibrosis, Caroli Disease, and Primary Biliary Cholangitis. He is board certified in Internal Medicine and licensed to treat patients in Connecticut.
MediFind strives to display the most accurate insurance information for every doctor. If you do not see your insurance listed for Dr. Mario Strazzabosco it is best to call his office and ask if your insurance is accepted.
35 Park St New Haven, CT 06519, US
Published —February 24, 2021
Dr. Walter N. Kernan
Walter Kernan is an Internal Medicine specialist and a General Practice specialist in New Haven, Connecticut. He has been an author on 71 peer reviewed articles and participated in 41 clinical trials in the past 15 years. He is licensed to treat patients in CT.
General Surgery | General Practice
Aurora Pryor is a General Surgeon and a General Practice specialist in East Setauket, New York. She has been an author on 174 peer reviewed articles and participated in 30 clinical trials in the past 15 years. She is licensed to treat patients in NY and NC.
RCEIS - Helmholtz-Centre for Environmental Research
RCEIS study areas in China
Project title: Helmholtz – CAS Research Centre for Environmental Information Science
The Research Centre for Environmental Information Sciences became a Sino-German/international competence centre and research platform of environmental information science for Earth system observation and prediction by combining expertise in the fields of natural and computer sciences using modern information technology.
The scientific goal of RCEIS was the development of novel concepts and infrastructures for Earth system observation and analysis in order to better understand the evolution and dynamics of environmental systems under global change and globalisation (anthropogenic pressure). An important prerequisite was the further development and combination of different infrastructures for Earth system observation, e. g. combining information from remote sensing (satellites and airborne) and "ground-truth" measurements. Moreover, monitoring (remote sensing and "ground-truth") and modelling platforms (multi-sphere/compartment, cycle-oriented) were combined.
A large variety of tools for data processing and environmental modelling is available from different sources as commercial, scientific or open source software. For optimal and efficient use of acquired data provided by novel observation and exploration strategies, linking those tools is a challenging task. For this purpose, the next generation of data and modelling tools – Environmental Information Systems (EIS) - must be embedded into entire continuous workflows, incorporating data acquisition, data management, integrative modelling and visualisation instruments to prevent bottlenecks for data streams. In order to achieve this objective, common purpose interface protocols and new methods for heterogeneous data integration have been developed.
Project duration: 03/14 – 06/17
Funding organisation: Helmholtz Association of German Research Centers
Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) Institute for Geographical Sciences and Natural Resources Research (IGSNRR)
Prevalence of Causes of Symptom: Missing teeth - RightDiagnosis.com
Symptoms » Missing teeth » Prevalence of Causes
Prevalence of Causes of Symptom: Missing teeth
About prevalence data for causes of Missing teeth: Important! The data below does not indicate the most likely diagnosis for any symptom. Always seek prompt professional diagnosis of any symptoms. This information combines possible causes of symptom Missing teeth as noted in various sources, with overall disease prevalence or incidence data from other sources. Hence, this only provides statistical information of a general nature. The likelihood of any disease causing a particular symptom does not strongly depend on the overall disease prevalence, but is affected by numerous other factors including other concurrent symptoms, patient details, and so on. Furthermore, this computer-generated list and data may be incorrect, erroneous, or misleading.
List of causes of symptom Missing teeth: Below is a list of possible diseases or medical conditions that have been identified as possible causes of symptom Missing teeth in various sources. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate, out-dated, or incorrect.
Symptoms related to Missing teeth: Aarskog Syndrome, Acrofacial dysostosis, Palagonia type, Amelogenesis Imperfecta, Anauxetic dysplasia, Anodontia, Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome
Missing teeth type of: Tooth loss (150 causes), Tooth symptoms (838 causes), Mouth symptoms (7039 causes), Head symptoms (9978 causes), Throat symptoms (3370 causes), Respiratory symptoms (4957 causes), Breathing symptoms (3301 causes), Breath symptoms (2958 causes), Face symptoms (8039 causes), Deformity symptoms (1785 causes)
Asthma Case Study Scenario - VinesProWriters
Asthma Case Study Scenario
• Write an academic essay where you critically examine the impact of hospitalization on a patient and/or their family, who is experiencing an acute exacerbation of their chronic illness. Scenario 1 selected, 6 year old boy with Asthma.
• Select only one scenario provided in your allocated cohort group
• The impact for both the patient and family have been provided for you.
Choose 1 impact on your patient and 1 impact on the family
1. Provide a detailed and comprehensive explanation on how hospitalisation can impact the
2. Suggest a coping strategy or strategies (could be 1 or 2) for each effect that could
support a more positive experience. The number of provided strategies is not a focus but rather, a well justified and developed arguments validated by current academic sources to support your discussion is expected.
APA 6 reference style, references no older than 5 years.
To assist with the marking, the body of your paper must include the following headings:
Chosen impact on a patient
Chosen impact on the family
Impacts ON PATIENT (CHAZ)
Fear being in hospital, Unfamiliar environment, Afraid of being left alone, May be come withdrawn or act out aggressively, Refusal to treatment and be uncooperative.
Worry and distress, Stress of managing responsibilities, Helplessness, financial impacts, Guilt, Educational concerns for their child, Fatigue.
Please see attached documents to use as a guide especially the rubic as this is what is used to grade the paper
https://vinesprowriters.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/logo-300x75.png 0 0 https://vinesprowriters.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/logo-300x75.png 2020-08-11 16:41:432020-08-11 16:41:43Asthma Case Study Scenario
Cameron should apologise to Wales over the NHS | Left Foot Forward
Cameron should apologise to Wales over the NHS
Cameron has fallen into the trap of measuring NHS success by how much is spent on treating people
Week after week, David Cameron has stood up at Prime Minister's Questions and accused Ed Miliband of seeking to 'weaponise' the NHS as a political issue.
With recent polling conducted jointly by the Health Service Journal and FTI consulting finding that voters are ranking the NHS as a top priority and trusting Labour most to run it, the sense of desperation in Conservative ranks has been palpable.
Politicians playing political football with the health service is nothing new. That the prime minister, however, has the cheek to accuse Labour of weaponising the health service for political gain cannot be tolerated, given the assault that he continues to launch on the health service in Wales.
Welsh Labour, so the Tories argue, is cutting the NHS budget to a point at which the health service is somehow at breaking point.
Such a crude analysis simplifies beyond all belief a matter that rightly deserves serious analysis rather than political pot shots.
The plain and simple reality is that you can ring fence health service spending as much as you like, but if you don't do the same with social care it becomes almost meaningless.
David Cameron et al have fallen into the trap that too many governments have, namely measuring success in the health service by the amount spent on treating people, rather than efforts to prevent admissions to hospitals and other health services.
That is why Andy Burnham's calls for a single health and social care system are so important.
For too long, the country has erected a virtual iron wall between health and social care, giving the impression that the two are somehow not linked. It's time to change that and change it fast.
It is for this reason that David Cameron should now apologise to Wales for his continued weaponising of the health service.
He should publicly acknowledge the recent research by the Institute for Fiscal Studies showing that social care budgets in Wales have been protected more than they have been in England.
Figures also show that, in Wales, in the words of the BBC's Health Editor, Hugh Pym:
"The proportion of cancer patients whose treatment began within 62 days of being referred by a GP rose to 88 per cent in the final three months of 2014. That compares with 83.8 per cent of patients in England."
Will David Cameron admit this? I somehow doubt it.
That the health service in Wales, as in all four nations of the UK, is facing considerable challenges is undeniable. It is time however for David Cameron to recognise that his selective use of the facts and political bashing serves only to make him look increasingly desperate when it comes to health service policy.
As the Guardian today concludes in its editorial:
"If the NHS is struggling in England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, that is ultimately a cause for shared concern rather than chauvinist or partisan rivalries.
"Mr Cameron, who has got so much wrong about Scotland, should be more wary of where his approach is heading. The deeper concern is that it both reflects and encourages a wider decline of solidarity between England and Wales, especially among Conservatives."
All our signs, available in a range of shapes and sizes, are made from durable, top quality fire rated plastics and come with strong acrylic adhesives on the back for simple, effective fitting.

An elegant long pile cotton velvet with a subtle shine inspired in the concept of the Eternal City as an eternal resting place for the Emperors, a symbol of power and magnanimity. Eternal is available in 26 colours among which sumptuous marsalas, night blues, snow whites, mustards and powdered greens stand out.

Millions of Americans suffer from food allergies. Their allergic reactions can range from itching and a slight rash to rapid swelling and deadly anaphylactic shock. Common food allergens are cow’s milk, peanuts, tree nuts, shellfish, eggs, wheat and soy.
Food allergies often begin in childhood. In fact, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 8 percent of children have a food allergy. Nearly half of these children will end up in the emergency room for food allergy treatment at some point.
There is no cure for food allergies. Over-the-counter antihistamines can help treat minor symptoms. Severe reactions require an emergency epinephrine injection and physician evaluation. Recent studies show that oral immunotherapy, where patients receive small doses of the food they are allergic to, may be promising.
Researchers at La Jolla Institute for Immunology (LJI) study the root causes of food allergies with the goal of guiding novel therapeutics.
LJI Professor Toshiaki Kawakami, M.D., Ph.D., and his team study the activity of specific cells found in mucosal and connective tissues, called mast cells, in response to allergens from food. Mast cells can respond to allergens by triggering a range of symptoms and signs—from itching, wheezing, and sneezing to life-threatening anaphylaxis.
Dr. Kawakami and his colleagues have made progress in dissecting the complex network of signaling molecules involved in the early phase of mast cell activation. During allergic reactions, mast cells can be activated by an immune molecule called immunoglobulin E (IgE). For a long time, scientists believed that allergens ramp up levels of antibodies called immunoglobulin E (or IgE), which then bind to mast cells. They thought that when an allergen touches IgE, mast cells release histamine, the chemical that then drives inflammation and itching.
Dr. Kawakami’s work suggests that allergen levels are often too low to activate mast cells through this pathway. Instead, a 2017 study from his lab shows an important role for a small protein named histamine-releasing factor (HRF). This research confirms that HRF is triggered by allergens to bind to IgE. The two molecules then work together to activate mast cells and boost inflammation.
InformationWeek | Healthcare | Read coverage about CPOE
healthcare: CPOE = Member Content
By Rebecca Armato Anyone who deploys tech "solutions" without reconsidering workflows and policies -- and doing other heavy lifting -- is in for a rude awakening.	| Read Article » Healthcare IT: Savior Or Sinkhole?
By Paul Cerrato Latest RAND report suggests we might be throwing taxpayer dollars away on EHRs and other healthcare IT systems.	| Read Article » 5 Healthcare IT Resolutions For 2013
By Paul Cerrato America's patient safety record is a source of embarrassment that angers both clinicians and patients. The right IT tools can help mitigate the...	| Read Article » Accountable Care: IT Gets Us Only Halfway There
By Paul Cerrato Accountable care organizations rely on software tools to deliver cost-effective care. But ACOs may be built on a shaky foundation.	| Read Article » 5 Trends Will Reshape Health IT In 2013
| Read Article » How To Break Into Healthcare IT
By Paul Cerrato University degrees and certificate training both are valuable, but you must think strategically when choosing between them.	| Read Article » Health IT Faces Eventful Summer
Meaningful Use Stage 2 final rules add up to a heated summer for healthcare IT execs.	| Read Article » E-Prescribing Systems Still Finding Their Mojo
By Paul Cerrato Latest stats suggest doctors are smitten with e-prescribing, but training and clinical decision support still needed.	| Read Article » Compromise On Health Data Access May Be Ugly
By Marianne Kolbasuk McGee Some hospitals and doctors oppose giving patients electronic data as quickly as required by proposed Meaningful Use Stage 2 regulations. Consumer...	| Read Article » Interoperability Nirvana Nowhere In Sight
By Marianne Kolbasuk McGee Personalized medicine programs can find better treatments based on patients' genetics. Why can't the same tools be used to predict--and...	| Read Article » What To See At HIMSS12
By Paul Cerrato Why spend all that money on an office-based electronic health record system and not take full advantage of its features?	| Read Article » Turbocharge Your EHR With Additional Data Sources
By Paul Cerrato Chances are your clinical information systems are starved for data. Consider adding EMBASE, Micromedix, and other sources.	| Read Article » Is Your Clinical Database Up to Speed? Jan 05, 2012
By Paul Cerrato If the scientific data going into these repositories is flawed, so are your clinicians' decisions. | Read Article » Why Doctors Won't Like ACOs
By Paul Cerrato Accountable Care Organizations require hard data to support treatment decisions. IT's job is to build that evidence into your organization's systems.	| Read Article » Accountable Care Lives Or Dies On Performance Data
By Paul Cerrato If your organization hopes to get a piece of the ACO pie, not only will your clinicians need to perform, but your IT team must crunch their...	| Read Article » Trinity Health Cuts Mortality Rate With New App Platform
By Paul Cerrato Genesis integrates 28 applications to save lives of 2,600 patients annually. | Read Article » IT Best Practices Can Sidestep EHR Snafus
By Paul Cerrato This guide to electronic health record basics isn't rocket science, but it's required reading for healthcare IT pros.	| Read Article » Smart Ways To Deal With Dumb Clinical Alerts
By Paul Cerrato Clinical alerts may help reduce dangerous drug interactions, but sometimes they cause more problems than they solve. Experts describe best...	| Read Article » When A Flawed EHR Threatens Patients
By Paul Cerrato When Harvard investigators tried to figure out why a patient nearly died, they discovered that even a sophisticated system of e-reminders and...	| Read Article » Best Practices For Selecting An EHR
By Paul Cerrato An in-depth analysis and exhaustive checklist from Huntington Memorial Hospital's Rebecca Armato.	| Read Article » More >>
20 Health IT Leaders Who Are Driving Change May 13, 2013
Surescripts annual report shows 38% growth in electronic prescribing in 2012, plus growing use of online medication histories and benefit data.	University of Kentucky HealthCare Revamps Order Sets May 07, 2013
Kentucky health system beta-tests Elsevier authoring tool as it streamlines a decade of CPOE history.	Health IT In 2018: Crystal Ball Predictions April 05, 2013
Near-universal EHR adoption, genetics in clinical decision support and widespread Internet medicine are all around the corner, says study.	Medical Device, EHR Integration Could Save $30B: Study March 22, 2013
Interfaces must be standardized before hospitals can achieve financial, patient safety benefits, says West Health Institute report.	First Speech-Enabled Mobile CPOE Lacks Decision Support March 18, 2013
Mobile computerized physician order entry (CPOE) app turns dictation into system entries, but alerts to prevent errors won't be added until a...	Technology Alone Isn't Healthcare's Savior March 14, 2013
Anyone who deploys tech "solutions" without reconsidering workflows and policies -- and doing other heavy lifting -- is in for a rude awakening.	Informatics Pioneer Says Healthcare Needs Better Systems March 11, 2013
Dr. Lawrence Weed continues his longstanding advocacy for computer-aided healthcare and revamping medical education.	Bill Clinton Stumps For Health IT At HIMSS March 08, 2013
Former president touts IT's potential to empower small players in a massive system, as HIMSS pledges $2.5 million to further Clinton Global...	HIMSS: Hospitals Making Progress On Meaningful Use March 05, 2013
Survey of healthcare CIOs reveals good progress toward fully functional EHRs, but questions about ACOs, staffing, interoperability loom.	More
