How to build up immunity to fight with corona virus - themediblogs.com
Home Blogs How to build up immunity to fight with corona virus
How to build up immunity to fight with corona virus
#themediblogs
Themediblogs will not tell you the way to build up the immunity in the the scientific language but in a scientific way . In a normal language if we have to tell you then immunity here means to build up your body with inner power to fight with infection going to be in future . As this is the way to protect your body from being sick. So read the ways you can build up self immunity and can fight with viruses , bacteria or others.
Low fats and plant based diet may help you to build up a strong immune system . But Vegetarians always found to have strong immune system than non vegetarian because of plant based diets with vitamins and low fats .
Researches have shown that low fat diet helps to strengthen the white blood cells but food containing high fats impair white blood cells to regulate their functions and thus decrease the capability to fight with harmful microorganism . But those humans found to be more sick and more prone to have viral infection like influenza .
Therefore a proper diet plays a important role for the immune system .
For proper diet ,a person should start taking fruits , green salads but less intake of milk and dairy products . fibre diet should always be there like cucumber etc.
Vitamins , Minerals and Antioxidants
As studies have shown that fruits and vegetables provide nutrients like beta carotene , vitamin C , vitamin E , vitamin A which help to build up immune system .
But there is a very important factor which is known as anti oxidants which helps to reduce the oxidative stress and decreases the harmful products form in our body during energy production. So this factor is also present in the vegetarian diet . It acts with vitamins .
Beta carotene is a strong anti oxidant which helps to reduce the inflammation and decreases the inflammatory products . But it acts like anti inflammatory fighter in our body . This is mostly found in carrot , sweet potato , and green leafy vegetables .
Vitamin C and E also acts like anti oxidants . But they help to reduce the free radicals formed in our body. On the other side , skin diseases , eyes related issues, hair problem or many others factors are also resolved by building up a proper level of vitamins in our body .
Vitamin D may reduce the risk of viral infection . But it also help to prevent from cardiovascular diseases , respiratory tract infection like tuberculosis . Vitamin D is found in fortified cereals , milk and healthy as early morning sunshine.
Sound sleep is directly proportional to calm and peaceful mind . But our body need sleep to rest and recharge . Most problems like heart related diseases , Alzheimer's, dementia , migraine , is linked with inadequate sleep .
One study found that one who sleeps fewer than 5 hours per night are more likely to suffer from cold than who sleep more .But healthy person need 6 to 8 hours sound sleep.
According to mythology , person Should sleep before 10 pm and wake up early by 4 am in the morning . But because of all these busy and rusty life, people have to work overnight and many more .
But at last, a stage come when a person actually realize that he has to live for him and for his family . And actually this is the truth . So why there is need to hurt yourself ?
TheMediBlogs want to say that person should do each and every work he wants but it should not be against humanity .
Factors which decrease Immunity
3. fatty diets
5. polluted environment
6. Low nutrition diet
8. Genetic factors
9. Abuse of drugs
10. Poor livelihood
Factors which Increase Immunity
If a person is able to remove all his or her bad habits then no one can stop him or her to build a strong immune system .But exercise should be done daily early morning . Aerobic exercise is the best to build a immune system like –
6. Swimming etc.
If a person want to build up a strong immune system then it is possible . But he or she can easily fight with corona virus . So stay tune with TheMediBlogs.
If you like the blog then please press the bless icon . Comment please .
1. Malter M, Schriever G, Eilber U. Natural killer cells, vitamins, and other blood components of vegetarian and omnivorous men. Nutr Cancer. 1989;12:271-278; Carddock JC, Neale EP, People GE, Probst YC. Vegetarian-based dietary patterns and their relation with inflammatory and immune biomarkers: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Adv Nutr. 2019;10:433-451.
2. Rinninella E, Cintoni M, Raoul P, et al. Food components and dietary habits: keys for a healthy gut microbiota composition. Nutrients. Published online October 7, 2019; Soldati L, Di Renzo L, Jirillo E, Ascierto PA, Marincola FM, De Lorenzo A.
The influence of diet on anti-cancer immune responsiveness. J Transl Med. 2018;16:75-93; Wood LG, Attia J, Mcelduff P, Mcevoy M, Gibson PG. Assessment of dietary fat intake and innate immune activation as risk factors for impaired lung function.
Eur J Clin Nutr. 2010;64:818-825; Rasmussen LB, Kiens B, Pedersen BK, Richter EA. Effect of diet and plasma fatty acid composition on immune status in elderly men. Am J Clin Nutr. 1994;59:572-577.
3. Alwarawrah Y, Kiernan K, MacIver NJ. Changes in nutritional status impact immune cell metabolism and function. Front Immunol. 2018;9:1055-1069.
4. Haddad EH, Berk LS, Kettering JD, Hubbard RW, Peters WR. Dietary intake and biochemical, hematologic, and immune status of vegans compared with nonvegetarians. Am J Clin Nutr. 1999;70(3 Suppl):586S-593S.
5. Eichelmann F , Schwingshackl L, Fedirko V, Aleksandrova K. Effect of plant-based diets on obesity-related inflammatory profiles: a systematic review and meta-analysis of intervention trials. Obes Rev. 2016;17:1067-1079.
6. Barnard ND, Goldman DM, Loomis JF, et al. Plant-based diets for cardiovascular safety and performance in endurance sports. Nutrients. 2019;11(1). pii: E130.
7. Grant WB, Lahore H, McDonnell SL, et al. Evidence that vitamin D supplementation could reduce risk of influenza and COVID-19 infections and deaths. Nutrients. 2020;12:988; Chung C, Silwal P, Kim I, Modlin RL, Jo EK. Vitamin D-cathelicidin axis: at the crossroads between protective immunity and pathological inflammation during infection. Immune Netw. 2020;20:e12-38.
What's it like: To be treated for a tick-borne illness | News OK
What's it like: To be treated for a tick-borne illness
Jaclyn Cosgrove Published: June 16, 2013
This photograph depicts a deer tick, or blacklegged tick, Ixodes scapularis, as it was questing on a blade of grass. The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Centers for Disease Control and Not every tick bite results in illness. But when you do get sick after getting a tick bite, it's important to see a doctor, for it could escalate quickly.
There are a few types of tick-borne illnesses seen in Oklahoma.
Lyme disease is well known as a tick-borne illness, but it's not common in the state. Since 1999, the state Health Department has reported fewer than eight cases of Lyme disease each year.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever, however, is more common, and Oklahoma reports one of the highest rates of spotted fever cases in the United States. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is a tick-borne disease caused by the bacterium Rickettsia rickettsii. About 80 percent of people who have Rocky Mountain spotted fever will develop a rash. However, some patients might never develop a rash, and a person might have other symptoms before the rash develops.
These symptoms include fever, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting and muscle pain. Rocky Mountain spotted fever can be severe or even deadly if not treated in the first few days of symptoms.
Ehrlichiosis is the general name used to describe several bacterial diseases that are spread to a person through the bite of an infected tick. In 2010, Oklahoma saw 107 cases of ehrlichiosis. It is not a subtle illness. People will look sick and are sick. Symptoms include high fever, chills, a terrible headache and fatigue within five to 10 days after a tick bite. The symptoms of ehrlichiosis are similar to Rocky Mountain spotted fever, but a rash is not as common. Half of the people who contract ehrlichiosis are hospitalized.
Other tick-borne illnesses include Southern Tick-Associated Rash Illness, which is similar to Lyme disease, and Tularemia, which has symptoms similar to the flu and can progress into one of more of the seven different forms of tularemia.
What happens when you're treated?
Your treatment will depend on your symptoms and illness. For Rocky Mountain spotted fever, it has been found that the antibiotic doxycycline is effective if started before the fifth day of symptoms. Doxycycline also is used to treat ehrlichiosis.
If you have contracted Lyme disease, and it's early in your symptoms, you might be treated with an antibiotic, such as doxycycline, amoxicillin or cefuroxime. Untreated, Lyme disease can cause a variety of serious symptoms, including loss of muscle tone in your face, severe headaches and swelling in large joints. There is some controversy about "chronic" Lyme disease and whether it exists and, if it does, how to best treat it.
Your recovery time will depend on how severe your illness was. If you're treated quickly, you usually can recover quickly. However, if people with tick-borne illnesses aren't treated early, they sometimes can develop serious symptoms and, at times, they do not survive.
It's important to take preventive measures when spending time outdoors, including wearing insect repellent, checking yourself often for ticks and checking your pets, which can bring ticks into the home.
Source: Dr. John Harkess, Mercy Hospital Oklahoma City; Oklahoma State Department of Health; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Northern New Mexico College history of medicine
Get the facts about Northern New Mexico College history of medicine, and registering for elective seminars. Which college degrees give you the best chances of finding employment after graduation? Completion of an accredited nursing program or other medical training can qualify you to start working in a private hospital immediately. Concentrating on Northern New Mexico College history of medicine, for example, you may gain an advantage in corporate job recruiting on-campus. Check with the public health department for course registration deadlines, and global health program requirements. Please use the form above to request admissions info for Northern New Mexico College.
In addition to administering Medicare and Medicaid, which together provide health insurance to one in four Americans, HHS also oversees the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Centers for Disease Control. The Secretary of Health and Human Services oversees a budget of approximately $700 billion and approximately 65,000 employees. The Department's programs are administered by 11 operating divisions, including 8 agencies in the U.S. Public Health Service and 3 human services agencies. Beyond major requirements within the public health department, you may consider Misericordia University medical laboratory technology as a complementary elective to your primary course of study.
Stem cells may develop into many different cell types in the body during early life and growth. In addition, in many tissues stem cells serve as a sort of internal repair system, like Neosporin, dividing essentially without limit to replenish other cells. When a stem cell divides, each new cell has the potential to develop into a more specialized structure, such as a muscle cell, a red blood cell, or a nerve cell. Unlike muscle cells or nerve cells, however, stem cells may replicate many times. A starting population of stem cells that proliferates for many months in the laboratory can yield millions of cells. If the resulting cells continue to be unspecialized, the cells are said to be capable of long-term growth. Going on to nursing study via Edgewood College nursing assistant program, for example, can help you find a rewarding position in the medical services field.
Research on adult stem cells has generated a great deal of excitement. While embryonic stem cells can be grown relatively easily in culture, adult stem cells are rare in mature tissues, so isolating these cells from an adult tissue is more challenging. Scientists now know that stem cells exist in the brain and the heart, two locations where adult stem cells were not expected. If the differentiation of adult stem cells can be controlled in a biological laboratory, these cells may become the basis of organ transplantation surgery. Some important treatments include regenerating bone using cells derived from bone marrow stroma, developing insulin-producing cells for type 1 diabetes, and repairing damaged heart muscle after a heart attack. In order to complete the stem cell research program, Armstrong Atlantic State University downloads information may be used in order to fulfill computing breadth requirements.
Technical programs are a low-cost alternative to attending a regular four-year university, and you can earn good money as a highly-skilled, technical specialist. By remaining true to your career interests, your overall job earnings will increase as you gain experience. If you're currently employed in a technical field, you may consider Ellsworth Community College engineering lab as an option to advance your career. Massive open online courses are known as MOOCs, utilizing interactive platforms such as Blackboard, and mobile apps. For example, Khan Academy now offers free lecture videos served through YouTube. Then there's Reinhardt University biotechnology program, with enrolled students from around the world.
Most colleges accept either the SAT or ACT, and have formulas for converting raw test scores. SAT test questions can be trickier and harder to understand, while ACT questions are longer on average, and take more time. Other college admissions information sources, like Onondaga Community College online degree major, make use of standardized tests in admissions decisions because there are substantial differences in course requirements, high school GPA, and grade curve difficulty among US schools. You can also explore Northeastern State University ACT exam dates, in order to further target your academic interests.
The overall time that students spend in college is getting longer, with undergraduate study increasingly leading onwards to graduate school. High school grades are the most important factor in gaining admission to the college of your choice, along with letters of recommendation and test scores. According to data on Fresno City College registration deadline pages, an ideal academic record consists of a high GPA in courses of progressive difficulty. About half of colleges use placement tests and a waiting list, and many community colleges have transfer agreements in place with bachelor programs at four-year universities. You may compare Lakeshore Technical College tutoring center with other schools that you're considering.
According to the US Department of Education, nearly 45 million Americans incurred student debt during their college career. Loan programs may issue loans based on the credit scores of the applicant and any co-signers. This is in contrast to federal loan programs that focus exclusively on need-based criteria. Financial aid may be administered via Murray State University resident tuition or through academic departments. Alternatively, student credit cards may seem like a good short-term solution, but the interest rates are high, and credit cards often carry an annual fee. FastWeb.com is one of the leading scholarship services online, with a large resource database. While local churches may not have the funding to provide scholarships, their headquarters may have limited scholarship funds available.
As the economy improves, many hospitals and other medical facilities are beginning to hire additional nursing staff. Whether you already work in medical services, or are a recent nursing school graduate, this may be a good time to seek a new position. Healthcare jobs such as Registered Nurses, LPN's, LVN's and related medical technicians provide over 15 million jobs in the USA alone, and ten of the 20 fastest growing occupations are healthcare-related. Finding out about Dowling College dining hall hours, on the other hand, may broaden your education in order to appeal to a wider variety of employers. The Department of Commerce offers salary data though the Occupational Outlook Handbook.
Apply to several colleges and universities simultaneously, and if you have the grades and test scores, give yourself a fighting chance to get into an accredited public health program by doing something outstanding in either high school or community college. Northern New Mexico College applications may be submitted by using the contact form at the top of this page. It may be possible to complete some of your required degree courses online, thus saving money on tuition fees. Alternatively, if you're currently employed, you can study part-time. It isn't as hard as you might think to find US News articles written about Central Wyoming College verification in your local newspaper. An advanced nursing degree will stick with you for a long time, so apply yourself and work hard for a few years, graduating from the best school that you can get into.
Northern New Mexico College history of medicine contact info
Northern New Mexico College › history of medicine
Biomedical engineers combine biological research with instrument design to fabricate medical equipment and surgical devices used in healthcare facilities. Reviewing Mount Wachusett Community College weekend courses can help you to choose elective subjects. The field of biomedical engineering requires a bachelor's degree in bioengineering or life science, with electives in mechanical design and surgical practices. Coursework relating to Pamlico Community College mathematics courses online may include lab courses such as organic chemistry, biomechanics, or molecular engineering. Finally, a hospital or pharmaceutical internship may be required to gain exposure to medical applications. The median salary in biomedical engineering was $85,620 in May 2017, based on US labor statistics.
On our pages, there are links to certificate programs and continuing education courseware. By pursuing an engineering internship, you can improve your career prospects, and potentially find a rewarding job as a professional engineer. This website is not affiliated with Northern New Mexico College history of medicine, and all trademarks are the exclusive property of their respective owners. College Inspector is the work of a group of Thai students in Bangkok, using info from the US Department of Education, Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS). If any stats on EIU restaurant management are incorrect, please contact us with the right data.
White Paper – GDPR Marketing for ConsentSteven Zozula2019-03-28T18:45:51+00:00
How to Make GDPR Marketing & Compliance Work for&nbspYou
Now that the May 25th, 2018, deadline has come and gone, you've read all the reports, downloaded all the checklists, and lost sleep over all the dire predictions about the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). You have all your consent and data collection ducks in a row, so it's the perfect time to read our white paper and shift your mindset, start seeing GDPR marketing compliance as a positive, for both you and your customers.
GDPR compliance isn't about curtailing your initiatives to avoid huge penalties; it's an adjustment in approach that represents a huge opportunity to improve the customer experience.
In addition to an overview of the basic principles of GDPR marketing, we'll show you how to:
Implement strategies to earn your customers' trust and encourage them to share the data you&nbspneed
And that's just a brief summary.
The white paper also covers the reasons it's important you don't forget about your non-EU customers. With high-profile security breaches on this side of the Atlantic – (we're looking at you, Facebook) – similar legislation has already been passed in California, with other US states sure to follow. But even without any legislative imperative, your North American customers both expect and deserve the same level of data privacy and protection as their EU counterparts.
Learn how GDPR compliance helps you get a jump on the competition.
Complete the form below to download your copy&nbsptoday.
Dyspatch is a cloud-based communications management platform that helps Enterprise organizations centralize the creation, approval, and publishing processes for transactional and triggered email. The powerful API, visual editor, and built-in device testing allow for cutting-edge email strategy and execution while helping establish consistency in both branding and legal compliance across multiple&nbspteams.
Could VOIP, online backup and hosted DR be the perfect recovery solutions for SME and mid-size businesses? - Online backup| DR solution provider Ireland
Skip to content
FacebookLinkedInTwitter
Call Us Now 353 1 524 1155 |info@backupvault.ie
Search for:
Home
Services
Online Backup
Disaster Recovery Ireland
Business Continuity
Technology
Download Free Trial
Partners
Resources
Online V’s Offline Backup
Compliance
Contact Us
Search for:
Could VOIP, online backup and hosted DR be the perfect recovery solutions for SME and mid-size businesses?
Previous Next
Could VOIP, online backup and hosted DR be the perfect recovery solutions for SME and mid-size businesses?
Setting up a new business can be exhilarating – finding the right location, hiring the best staff, developing your product, finding clients, seeing the business plan take shape. If all goes well you are on your way to fame and fortune. Sad to say, all does not go well all the time. Poorly planned businesses seldom succeed, and one of the areas frequently overlooked in the planning is what to do if disaster strikes. How will you keep your business running with the least possible interruption of service? The physical part of the business should be covered by insurance, but how will you recover damaged records?
Let’s imagine that your company relies heavily on computers for inventory tracking, customer relations management and accounting, plus you have an extensive phone network in constant use. You back up your data daily and store the tapes in a safe location.
Then, suppose, there is a massive storm, resulting in the power being off for three days, or – as one headline put it – “Mating frogs spark major Irish power outage”. Your telephones go off, your computers crash, and business comes to a standstill until power is restored. Even then, it is going to take time to restore the data from the backup tapes, and you will never get back what happened between the time of the last backup and the time the lights went off.
Now suppose that, instead of tapes, your data was backed up with an online service. You take your laptop to the nearest unaffected area, log on to your account and download the most essential data, stuff which will allow you to keep operating, up to a point. You are limited by the capacity of your laptop which may not be able to handle the complex software used to run your core functions.
You can use your mobile phone for essential calls, and so the outage does not cause a complete catastrophe, especially if other key staff members can do the same. Also, suppose that instead of using landlines, your telephone system was also based on the internet, that is, a VoIP system. Voice over Internet Protocol, also known as IP telephony or broadband phone, can provide all the services of line-based systems, including voice mail, music while holding, and direct inward and extension dialling, and many other features.
Finally, suppose that not just your data was stored online, but that you had wisely invested in a hosted disaster recovery system. This can be a rented, dedicated server housed in a location protected by every safeguard imaginable, which is loaded with all your software, and which handles all your computing. Alternatively, the backup system consists of duplicating everything that happens on your server, so that it is not only your data files that are backed up; it is the entire contents of the server, including your VoIP phones. This can be accessed from any computer, anywhere, and – hey presto – it’s as if disaster never struck.
So, yes, a combination of VOIP,online backup and hosted DR probably is the perfect solution for SMEs.
By backup|2020-12-10T16:50:27+00:00July 23rd, 2012|Uncategorized|0 Comments
Share This Story, Choose Your Platform!
FacebookTwitterLinkedInRedditWhatsAppTumblrPinterestVkXingEmail
About the Author: backup
Related Posts
Disaster recovery in the cloud: how cloud services are making effective DR solutions easier than ever to deploy and maintain
Disaster recovery in the cloud: how cloud services are making effective DR solutions easier than ever to deploy and maintain
Hosted disaster recovery services Vs Single location disaster recovery solutions
Hosted disaster recovery services Vs Single location disaster recovery solutions
Hello world!
Hello world!
Services
Online Backup
Disaster Recovery
Business Continuity
Payment
< div>
< div>
< div>
< div>
Company
About
Contact
Partners
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Twitter Feed
Latest Tweets
Its all over the news with plenty of hype to boot! loads of "Experts" coming out of the woodwork all of a sudden. https://t.co/b8QFXtcuVF
6 years ago
How It Works
Technology
Benefits
Online Backup V's Offline
Resources
News
Blog
Twitter
LinkedIn
Facebook
Newsletter
© Backupvault 2014| Host-it Limited, CRO No.: 374245 | Data Protection Commissioner registration number 10763/A |
Website Privacy Policy | Aspro, Inc.
ASPRO, INC. HAS CREATED THIS STATEMENT IN ORDER TO DEMONSTRATE OUR FIRM COMMITMENT TO PRIVACY.
Aspro, Inc. believes that strong electronic privacy is crucial. Therefore, unless you designate otherwise, any information you enter within these publications will be known only to you and Aspro, Inc..
We pledge that Aspro, Inc. will not release your personal data to anyone else without your consent - period. Contact information may be used occasionally by Aspro, Inc. to notify users of new services, events or the like, but will not be given or sold to third parties.
Our site contains links to other sites. Aspro, Inc. is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such websites.
Home - AOSW
Skip to main content Loading Twitter
Sign In- Cart Call Us: (847) 480-6343 - Email: info@aosw.org
Join UsBoard Section
Conference Call + Meeting Reports
Member LoginRetrieve Username and PasswordChange PasswordView/Edit AOSW ProfileVerify Your Membership (formerly Membership Card)Renew AOSW MembershipMembership DirectorySpecial Interest GroupsSocial NetworkingSocial Work Oncology Network (SWON)Research Committee (formerly SWORG)
Patient Navigation ResourcesAOSW Cancer Survivors Network (ACSN)Regional NewsHelp with CoC StandardsAOSW Member Resources
Mission and GoalsPeople
Board of DirectorsCommittees & State RepresentativesState RepresentativesStaff
Conferences+Programs
2015 Annual Conference AbstractsHotel & Travel Information
Future Conferences2014 AOSW Conference
RecipientsPrivacy Policy
Projects+Partnerships
Partners+SponsorsAOSW NewsAOSW ProjectsResearch
Standards of PracticeScope of PracticePosition PapersJournal of Psychosocial OncologyOncology Social Work Specialty CertificationSpecial Interest Groups (SIG)GrantsResources and Links
Tips on Cancer and CaregivingResources and Links
Welcome to AOSW
The Association of Oncology Social Work (AOSW) is a non-profit, international 501(c) 3 organization dedicated to the enhancement of psychosocial services to people with cancer and their families. People Affected by Cancer
AOSW is committed to providing information about
resources to help with the challenges that cancer
presents to you and your family. Partnerships
AOSW thanks those companies and organizations for their financial support. AOSW greatly appreciate their support of our work with patients living with cancer. Membership
Resources to assist you in networking, information seeking, issue identification, leadership access, professional news, and finding resources provided by other members. Welcome to AOSW
2015 Annual Conference Abstract Submission Now Open
AOSW is now accepting abstract proposals for its 31st Annual Conference, being held May 20-22, 2015 in Seattle, Washington, USA. The theme for the 2015 conference is "Leading With Skill and Passion: Oncology Social Workers at the Forefront of Cancer Care." Learn more…
AOSW Collaborates to Address Disparities
AOSW, represented by Membership Director Kim Day, participated in a multidisciplinary planning group, in collaboration with representatives from ten other organizations, to guide an important new program that was launched December 11 and is available online. Read more...
A guide to shopping for insurance on the Marketplace/Exchange if you
have cancer, a history of cancer, or are at risk for cancer. Download the checklist. Read more…
NEW! Spanish language version, Guía de Cobertura Médica para Personas con Cáncer, now available. Education
Inform clients, their families and caregivers with information about our profession and resources to empower them.
Oncology Social Workers Flier (download)
Oncology Social Workers Brochure
(view) (purchase printed copies)
ACS Quality of Life Award Lecture
Roeliena L. VanZanten, MSW delivered Quality of Life for Oncology Social Workers: "Who Cares?" at the AOSW 30th Annual Conference in Baltimore, Maryland, on May 29, 2014. This presentation explores specific quality of life issues that relate to themes and paradigms that oncology social workers face in their work. Contextual challenges include the ever changing medical landscape, increased professionalization at the academic level and sociopolitical changes with the recent implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA).
Roeliena L. VanZanten, MSW worked as an oncology social worker in a variety of settings and roles. She worked in specialty cancer centers, in-patient hospice, skilled nursing facility, non-profit organizations and a private practice geared toward people living with cancer, MS, and eldercare challenges. Be a part of AOSW
Oncology social workers and other psychosocial oncology professionals provide direct services to people with cancer and their families in public and private health care institutions and agencies. Some are consultants to community service agencies or private industry. Administration, education and research are valued roles for others as is the provision of private cancer counseling services. AOSW works to unify and support psychosocial oncology practitioners as related to the common mission of improved psychosocial support services for patients and families facing cancer. Join today!
DONATE TODAY! Support Oncology Social Work
The Association of Oncology Social Work is able to provide its
excellent programs and resources to promote psychosocial care for cancer
patients and their caregivers through donations from supporters just
like you. Just as oncology social workers advocate for patients and
their caregivers, AOSW advocates for you.
As a nonprofit organization, we need your help to continue to provide
our services and promoting excellence in psychosocial care of cancer
patients. Please take a moment and consider a donation which will help
ensure AOSW continues to lead the fight in providing comprehensive care
and support for those affected by cancer.
Making your tax-deductible donation online is easy with a few simple clicks.
Read news articles about Oncology Social Work.
Knowledge is power. Whether you are a person with cancer, or an
oncology social worker, finding the right resources is critical. AOSW
members are leaders in the field of psychosocial oncology. As an
organization, AOSW is also involved in collaborating with other patient
advocacy groups and national and international oncology organizations
whose primary focus is access to quality care for cancer patients.
Click here for resources…
111 Deer Lake Rd, Suite 100 Deerfield, IL 60015 Phone: (847) 480-6343
Fax: (847) 480-9282 General questions: info@aosw.org
AOSW Administrator
Carlie Cody
(847) 480-6343, ext. 363
AOSW Conference, Exhibits and Support Administrator
(847) 480-6343, ext. 249
AOSW News
Member Spotlight: Jennifer Hill Buehrer, LMSW
Jennifer Hill Buehrer, LMSW
Interviewed by Jean Rowe, LCSW, OSW-C
How long have you been an oncology social worker? About 12 years; before that I worked in the disability field for 12 years as an advocate and educator.
Where do you currently work? What is your position? How long have you been there? Include prior oncology social work. I am the sole SW in the inpatient palliative care consultation service at St. Joseph Mercy Hospital in Ann Arbor. I have been here now for eight and a half years. Prior to this position, I was the sole SW in a small, private gynecologic oncology practice for two and a half years. That was my introduction to OSW, which I got into after my mother died from ovarian cancer. That was my introduction to cancer.
Where did you earn your degree(s)? My MSW came from Michigan State University. I also have a BA in Psychology from Albion College.
How long have you been a member of AOSW?
I discovered AOSW at my last job, which was approximately 10 years ago. I think I've been a member ever since.
Have you attended the AOSW conference? When/where? I have attended three AOSW conferences: 2006 in Minneapolis, 2009 in Savannah, and 2011 in St. Louis.
Other professional affiliations? I am a member of SWHPN (Social Work in Hospice & Palliative Care Network).
In your role as an oncology social worker/clinician, what is one of your favorite resources to share with clients? Why? I am a big fan of the Cancer Support Community (formerly Wellness Community), and we have a great one here in Ann Arbor. CSC is one of my favorite things to tell cancer patients about as there is so much support, education, distraction, and growth that happens there. Because I work in palliative care rather than strictly oncology, I don't often see patients at the time of diagnosis. In your experience with survivors, would you share a memorable story with us? One that moved you? Through my palliative care work, I met a young woman (in her mid 40s) with a rare sarcoma that spread into her CSF. She had chemo infused directly into her head and experienced terrible side effects from it. When I met her, she was bedbound, painful, and miserable, and decided she'd had enough. She didn't want to spend the rest of her life in the hospital and didn't want any more chemo. Even her oncologist felt it was likely she would not live more than a week or two. We made arrangements for her to go to a nice hospice home in the area. On the day of her discharge, she told me she was going to "beat this" and walk again. Her mother told me the same thing. I listened and supported them but never believed that would really happen. Now, three years later, she's not only graduated from hospice, she was admitted into our inpatient rehab unit and learned to walk again. She's back living at home with her mother and getting on with her life. And no one can explain it.
In that "little something more" section, what is one thing you might share with us about you personally, one that is outside of your work life? Some people who were at the AOSW conference in St. Louis already know that I sing. My husband is a musician; he plays and teaches guitar, and writes and performs rock music. We've been in two different rock bands together and continue to play in one of them for fun (and occasionally a measly fee). I'm now taking bass guitar lessons, and even played a few songs on it at our last gig! I feel very fortunate to be able to share a hobby like that with my husband. We have a great time doing it.
Anything more you'd like to tell us? Three years ago my brother was diagnosed with poorly differentiated head and neck cancer. The course of his illness has been incredibly strange, unpredictable, and, so far, more positive than anyone would have imagined, though we know what the eventual outcome will be. My background in oncology has been both good and bad for me in this situation. I know what to expect. I know some things and my brother doesn't want to hear any of them. It is challenging to separate my role as a loving sister from my training in the oncology field. But my work and my connection to AOSW are immensely helpful to me in coping with my brother's illness. And the privilege of working with so many survivors of cancer has helped me learn to focus on what is in front of me today, and not look too far ahead. In turn, that personal experience helps me understand my patients' approaches to their diseases. What I used to consider denial I now know is merely survival.
Member contact: buehrerj@trinity-health.org
Author contact: jrowe@youngsurvival.org
Kudos to These AOSW Members
By Donald Rolfe
By Kim Day, LISW-S, OSW-C, ACHP-SW
Membership Director As an organization, AOSW takes great pride in its members. AOSW members continue to inspire us with stories of achievement and success. Please join me in congratulating the following members who demonstrate expertise, skill, and passion in their jobs every day.
Larmender Davis, MSW, LMSW, OSW-C, was selected as Wayne State University School of Social Work Alumnus of the Year. Larmender is the Director of Supportive Oncology Services at Karmanos Cancer Center in Detroit, MI.
Congratulations to Abigale Hassel, MSW, LCSW, OSW-C, for reaching her goal of establishing a private therapy practice. Abigale works full-time as an oncology social worker at the Kennedy Cancer Center in Sewall, NJ, and carves out time for her private practice. The Gathering Place in Cleveland, OH, is a community for those touched by cancer. The talented and caring staff includes Susan Marinac, LISW-S, MT, a clinical social worker and board-certified music therapist. Susan sees individuals and couples for counseling and leads support groups. She recently gave a talk entitled "The Impact of Cancer on the Grief Experience" to the Central Ohio Conference on Grief.
Being recognized by peers is always gratifying. Congratulations to Paula McCarthy, ACSW, LCSW, from St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, TN, who was named Social Worker of the Year by the Association of Pediatric Oncology Social Workers.
Many of our members have attended ExCEL training including Kristin Scheeler, MSSW, APSW. Kristin won an Award of Excellence from ExCEL for developing a distress screening protocol for the bone marrow transplant population at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics. She also received a competitive Ambulatory Care Innovation Grant from the University of Wisconsin Health and Physicians Plus insurance group to help her achieve the goals of her project. Congratulations on both counts, Kristin.
Alison Snow, PhD, LCSW-R, OSW-C, led the effort that resulted in all of the outpatient oncology social workers at Continuum Cancer Centers of New York attaining the OSW-C certification. Alison is the Coordinator of Social Work Services at Beth Israel Comprehensive Cancer Center, East Campus Continuum Cancer Centers of New York.
Wendy Walters, LCSW, OSW-C, achieved the distinction of being the first non-physician appointed to the position of Vice-Chair of the Ethics Committee at the UAB Hospital-University Health Systems, Birmingham, AL. Well done, Wendy!
Author contact: Kim.Day@UHHospitals.org
2015 Conference Planning Update - You Asked, We Answered
2015 Conference Planning Update:
By Catherine Credeur, LMSW, OSW-C 2015 Annual Conference Committee Member
The 2015 Annual Conference Committee is incorporating several changes into this year's submissions and review process in response to your input from the 2014 conference. We recognize the significant financial and time commitment it takes to attend a national conference. The committee's focus is on using the unique advantage of a mass of oncology social workers to create networking and synergistic learning that is difficult to achieve in more independent learning formats. We want you to return to work with new information and networking that strengthens your leadership. We are tweaking steps from the conference planning to the formats of our presentation to maximize the collective power of our presence.
The next step in creating a high-quality conference involves you. The AOSW Annual Conference Committee encourages you to submit an abstract proposal for AOSW's 31st Annual Conference, to be held May 20-22, 2015 in Seattle, Washington. The deadline for submitting abstract proposals is Monday, September 8th, 2014. We heard you when you were struggling with the upload process at the 11th hour of last year's abstract submissions deadline. Our new abstract management system will facilitate the technical ease of uploading an abstract and supporting documentation. It will also allow the Conference Committee to respond to every submitter by mid-November. You asked for more opportunities for emerging leaders. Our expanded abstract mentorship program is supporting the professional development of our emerging leaders and current leaders, in keeping with the conference theme "Leading With Skill and Passion: Oncology Social Workers at the Forefront of Cancer Care." Our hope is that mentoring these emerging leaders will bring more oncology social workers into positions to influence cancer care. A call for mentor volunteers was followed by a call for people wanting support through the submission of their first abstract. The intent is to provide coaching that improves the quality of abstract submission and therefore increases the likelihood of a first-timer's abstract being accepted for presentation. Our "Match Day" to introduce mentoring pairs took place on August 8. We appreciate these mentor volunteers who are lending their skill and experience with a national presentation to encourage a potential new presenter. Our first-time presenters will bring their passion and fresh approach to our conference. This ongoing process of "do one, teach one" mentorship builds a professional legacy for our longtime members and sustains the availability of strong social workers for future patients. Our conference surveys included both calls for more presentations and regrets about not being able to attend everything you found interesting. We know that a longer and more expensive conference is not feasible for most attendees. A panel format is a new feature that will allow the conference to accommodate a greater number of presentations while keeping the length of our conference days manageable for optimal learning. The panel format also stimulates ongoing networking among members with similar interests. You won't have to choose among presentations with a shared focus in the same time slot. Some presentations with common concerns will be combined to share the narrative of the problem and spend more time focused on innovative solutions. We want you to leave the conference with a collegial body that tackles common problems and synergizes substantial improvements in oncology care. Still pondering an idea or program you might share at our Seattle conference? Proposals for the following session types are being accepted:
• Workshop (100-minute session) Provides specific skill-building techniques, program review, supporting research, case examples, panel discussions, group exercises, discussion, demonstration, and Q & A.
• Panel For each session, three papers that are thematically linked will be presented for 10 minutes each, followed by a 20-minute Q&A session. The Program Committee will group these together when submissions are finalized.
• Paper (50-minute session)
Overview of presented topic with background, supporting research, suggestions for implementing change/projects, discussion, and Q&A.
• Poster A poster presentation is an opportunity to discuss your topic with peers in an informal setting. Posters typically focus on one main theme, present useful information and research results, and stimulate discussion. A poster presentation allows viewers to study and restudy information and discuss it with the presenter one-on-one.
We hope you were energized by the 2014 conference experience and are anticipating the networking and learning we will have in Seattle. You can find details of the 2015 learning objectives and links to the abstract submission portal here. The Annual Conference Committee is looking forward to reading your abstract submissions and building the content for our conference. We will continue to give you updates via this blog and broadcast email to help you engage in the conference experience. See you in Seattle.
Other Annual Conference Committee members:
Chelsea Kroll, AL, Chair
Christina Bach, PA, Co-chair
Fran Becker, CT
Kristin Scheeler, WI
Sandi Johnson, WA Author contact: Catherine.credeur@utsouthwestern.edu
Brain Tumor SIG - Social Work Was My Calling
Brain Tumor SIG
Social Work Was My Calling
By Jillann Demes, MSW, LSW, OSW-C
Senior Program Manager
When my mother was diagnosed with cancer, my life changed. I left
college in order to care for her. With no one to count on for help, I
had to figure things out myself. I coordinated doctors' appointments,
prepared meals, paid bills, and managed everything else at home. Taking on additional responsibilities made me grow up fast. My attention
was no longer on my long-term future, so it was very difficult to focus
on school. It was only when I started my classes in social work that my
life really started coming together. After graduating with a social
work degree, I knew I had landed in the right place. Over the Years
When I first started my career, it was easy to connect people looking
for help with the many resources available. I found transportation,
wigs, prescription assistance, and much more. The financial resources
were very plentiful as well. As resources dried out over time, it has been a tougher road. At times,
it was agonizing because I knew it was not easy for people to ask for
help, so when I couldn't provide it, it was heartbreaking. However, I
learned a critical lesson. I realized that I could serve as a very
valuable emotional resource. American Brain Tumor Association
I have had the privilege of working at the American Brain Tumor
Association (ABTA) for more than 17 years. When people contact us it is
clear they feel that so much has been taken away. It is our priority to
give them back a sense of control. I may not be able to provide them
with a quick fix, but I can partner with them and talk about tools they
can use to better their lives. Here are some of the resources the ABTA provides:
Personal and confidential support from licensed healthcare
professionals via ABTA's CareLine at 1.800.886.ABTA (2282) or email at abtacares@abta.org.
The ABTA website is a digital hub of information—from caregiver help, to tumor and treatment information, to local support group listings. An informational publication series
covering tumor types, treatment options, and related resources. These
publications can be downloaded or ordered from the ABTA website.
An annual Patient and Family Conference,
held each summer in Chicago, featuring sessions led by brain tumor
experts from across the United States. The 2014 conference focuses on
research, treatment, and care.
I envision technology will play a key role in the future of social work.
The ABTA offers an online support community, called Connections, and
recently launched a webinar series. The ABTA also offers a full spectrum
of support services online, from teleconference support groups to an
online tool to help patients find clinical trials, called TrialConnect™.
I believe technology is helpful; however, I will always believe that
offline support will never lose its value. Sometimes hearing a voice
provides the deepest comfort. Full Circle
Now, at the ABTA, I am there for those in need and never take it for
granted because I have shared their journey. I am grateful that my line
of work allows me to make a significant impact on people's lives. At the
ABTA I strive to provide heartfelt, helpful, and meaningful support–on
or offline. Author contact: jdemes@ABTA.org
Blog Maintenance By Donald Rolfe
Blog Maintenance We apologize for the inconvenience, but we are currently performing a maintenance function on the Blog. Some entries will temporarily appear out of chronological order. Thank you for your patience!
Kudos to AOSW Members By Donald Rolfe
Kudos to AOSW Members By Kim Day, MSSA, LISW-S, OSW-C, ACHP-SW AOSW Membership Director John Quincy Adams said, "If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader." Please join me in congratulating our AOSW colleagues who exemplify leadership in myriad ways. • Tracie Barberi, MSW, LCSW, OSW-C, CCIT, clinical oncology social worker at Barnabas-Health in New Jersey, was recently promoted to Assistant Professor in the social work program at Georgian Court University, Lakewood, NJ; she had been an adjunct professor for 12 years. It is a pleasure to congratulate, you, Traci.
• It is interesting to note the various roles oncology social workers can fill. Loreen Brown, MSW, has recently transitioned to a new job as the senior Vice President of Product Strategy for the Lash Group. This group works with pharmaceutical and biotech companies to strategically design, deliver, and continuously improve patient access and adherence programs to ensure cancer patients receive the best possible care. The Lash Group, an AmeriSource Bergen Corp. company, has locations in Charlotte, Dallas, San Francisco, Rockville, MD; and Monroeville, PA.
• Penny Damaskos, PhD, LCSW, OSW-C, represents leadership in many ways. In addition to recently being voted President–Elect of AOSW, Penny has also been promoted to the position of Director of the Department of Social Work at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.
• Larmender A. Davis, MSW, LMSW, OSW-C, Director of Social Work and Supportive Services at Karmanos Center Center in Detroit, MI and Bradley Zebrack, PhD , MSW, Associate Professor of Social Work, University of Michigan, have been selected to participate in the NCI-supported "Implementing Comprehensive Biopsychosocial Screening Training Program." Sponsored through the City of Hope in Duarte, CA, this training will teach participants how to successfully implement, maintain, and evaluate biopsychosocial screening programs of ExCELlence within their organizations. This was a competitive application process, and Larmender and Brad were selected as one of 40 teams across the nation to participate.
• Alisha Eastman, MSW, took what she learned at the last AOSW conference and put it into practice. She attended the CLIMB training and then started a CLIMB program at Halvorson Cancer Center at Evergreen Health Hospital in Kirkland, WA. Alisha stated that both the children's group as well as the parent group received great reviews and she is excited about growing the program.
• Katherine Easton, LCSW, OSW-C, wrote "The Art of Living in the Present." This article was published in the January/February 2014 issue of Coping with Cancer magazine. Katherine is an oncology social worker at Atlanta Cancer Care, which is affiliated with Northside Hospital Cancer Institute, in Atlanta, GA.
• As if Penny Damaskos was not busy enough, she and Susan Gerbino, PhD, LCSW, from the Zelda Foster Studies Program in Palliative and End-of-Life Care, New York University Silver School of Social Work, organized a special issue of the journal, Social Work in Health Care. The special edition, called "Coping With Chronic Cancer: Clinical Approaches for Oncology Social Work Practice," featured articles written by staff at MSKCC, most of whom are also members of AOSW. Authors published in this special edition include; Melissa Stewart, LCSW-R, on spirituality; Roz Kleban, LCSW, on metastatic disease; Kimarie Boerger-Knowles, LCSW, and Tashi Ridley, LCSW, on aspects of chronicity; Barbara Golby, LCSW, on parenting with cancer; and Susan Gerbino, PhD, on bringing palliative care into the discussion. This is an amazing body of work.
• Collaborating as a husband and wife team, AOSW member Chris Frey, LCSW, and his wife, DiAnne Muller, presented a workshop at the national Lifespan Respite Conference in Boston in October 2013. The workshop, "Collaborative Respite Care: A Team Approach for Children and Adults Coping with Serious Illness," drew on their professional and personal experience. Chris is a psychotherapist and cancer survivor in private practice at Frey and Tobin Counseling Associates in St. Louis, MO. Of note, Chris recently wrote an article for Coping with Cancer magazine entitled "Masculinity and Cancer: Tradition and Beyond."
• Sending congratulations to Sara Goldberger, LCSW-R, on her recognition as an MPN (myeloproliferative neoplasm) Hero. This award, sponsored by CURE magazine and Incyte honored Sara for her outstanding capacity to increase an individual's ability to access better care and treatment and for her tireless efforts in providing compassionate support and hope for those living with this rare blood cancer. Sara is the past AOSW Education Director and Senior Director of Programs for the Cancer Support Community. Sara is from Larchmont, NY.
• Kathy Gurland, LCSW, Director and Founder of PEG'S Group LLC, an independent group of cancer navigation consultants in the New York City area, recently published an article on hospice in A Woman's Health ( http://awomanshealth.com/insights-into-hospice/). The article is a thoughtful and concise explanation of hospice care and carries a message of empowerment for the lay public. Well done, Kathy.
• Ethics Committees are important sources of guidance in the complex world of medicine, and it is cause to celebrate when an oncology social worker is appointed to chair such a prestigious committee. Please join me in congratulating Kelly C. Markham, LCSW, Palliative Care Coordinator at Baptist Hospital in Pensacola, Fl, on her appointment as Chair of the Medical Ethics Committee for Baptist and Gulf Breeze Hospitals, Pensacola. Kelly served on the committee for 10 years prior to her appointment as Chair.
• Kudos to Sophia Smith, PhD, MSW, editor of the AOSW News Blog, Research Section, on being named an Associate Professor in the Duke University School of Nursing. Sophia earned a PhD in 2007 and an MSW in 2001 from the University of North Carolina's School of Social Work. Her research has focused on innovative health and psychosocial care solutions to improve health outcomes for cancer survivors.
• Phyllis Tell, MSW, is the Director of Community Programs for Tower Cancer Research Foundation, a nonprofit organization that provides grants for clinical trials, innovative research, and patient support and community education programs in Southern California. Phyllis's recent accomplishments include serving on a professional advisory task force to put together a Survivorship Best Practice Forum for providers in the underserved cancer community of Los Angeles; convincing a celebrity patient to include Tower Cancer Research Foundation as a partner with the Actors Fund to benefit from a fund raising concert in New York City in October, and creating a free community patient support program that includes workshops on mindfulness meditation, reiki, acupressure massage, and hypnotherapy/tapping. Clearly, there are some great organizational skills at work here. Kudos, Phyllis,
• Brad Zebrack, PhD, from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor and the AOSW Director of Research, was invited to represent oncology social work at an event entitled "Social Work and The Affordable Care Act: Maximizing the Profession's Contribution to Health Care Reform." The meeting, a Society for Social Work Research event, was held in Februray 7 in Chicago and sponsored by the Brown School at Washington University, the University of Chicago's Center for Health Administration Studies, and the University of South Carolina's College of Social Work.
Author contact: kday4@roadrunner.com 0 replies
Around AOSW
Around AOSW By Iris Cohen Fineberg, PhD, MSW, OSW-C
AOSW President
Thirty years ago, the founders of AOSW looked to the future with imagination, innovation, and optimism. As an AOSW member for more than two decades, I am grateful they did. Now, as president of AOSW, I hope our imagination, innovation, and optimism will continue and strengthen the association that was started 30 years ago.
This year has begun with great promise for AOSW. We have a new management company to take us forward into the future. Our annual conference and 30th celebration in Baltimore are looking great. Colleagues in the field of cancer care seek our clinical expertise, and our research expertise is recognized and supported by our partners. In honor of our 30th anniversary, the Journal of Social Work in End-Of-Life & Palliative Care is publishing a special issue focused on oncology. Our members are taking on volunteer leadership opportunities in AOSW and bringing great ideas and enthusiasm to what they do. We are grateful for all the exciting contributions and opportunities that we are experiencing as an organization.
The vision of AOSW is a global society in which oncology care meets the physical, emotional, social, and spiritual needs of all people affected by cancer. I hope you come to our annual meeting in Baltimore so we can TRULY mark and celebrate what we do, who we are, and how we have grown as a group of skilled and dedicated professionals pursuing this vision. We work toward it every day. I look forward to seeing you at the harbor in May!
Contact: president@aosw.org
Becoming a Social Work Professor By Donald Rolfe
Becoming a Social Work Professor
By Tracie Barberi-Mathews, MSW, LCSW, OSW-C
Psychosocial Services Coordinator J. Phillip Citta Regional Cancer Center
Toms River, New Jersey Social work, by far, is an all-encompassing profession. Many social workers initially choose this field because of their desire to help the less fortunate, the oppressed, the disadvantaged, and/or other vulnerable populations. Along the journey social workers acquire diverse skills, knowledge, and opportunities that allow them to serve in many areas including: hospice/palliative care, mental health, gerontology, families, schools, child abuse, domestic violence, the justice system, research, healthcare, social policy, and higher education.
Quite often social workers are propelled further into these specialty areas where they find their so-called professional niche or preferred path of service. They may remain in these areas for many years or even until retirement. The various paths one pursues, as is often the case with other occupations, are dependent upon a multitude of variables such as geography, interests, ethnicity and race, socioeconomics, education, networks, gender, past experiences. The variables are endless, as are the paths. At times, the chosen career path can open doors to "sidebar opportunities" such as consulting for other organizations, mentoring, coaching, private practice, writing, teaching, research.
Academia and Social Work Practice
Teaching social work students can be a welcome and needed change or complimentary to a full-time practice position. Social work educators who are simultaneously employed in the field are often credited with having relevant and up-to-date working knowledge of the field regarding available resources, services, and current issues and trends relating to social work practice as well as sustained relationships with programs and community organizations. These qualities are viewed as not just beneficial but also as invaluable to students' learning.
Often a social worker who wishes to teach obtains a PhD. However, one does not have to have a PhD or be a researcher in order to teach in social work schools. Many graduate programs do require a PhD, but some don't. A social worker with a MSW or LCSW with experience teaching and supervising, or having specialized certification and experience in an area, can obtain an adjunct or even a permanent teaching position. The MSW is usually considered a terminal degree in the practice setting. Social workers who are employed in academic settings, whether adjunct or full time or whether PhD or MSW, will have the opportunity to engage in research, present at national conferences, and publish. The difference between a professor with a PhD or an MSW is often that the MSW has strong roots in practice and the PhD is rooted in research and knowledge development. Both have valuable places in social work education (Brownstein, 1985).
Teaching and Supervision There is a close affinity between social work supervision of staff and/or students in the field and teaching in a school of social work. Certainly part of supervision is teaching. However, the supervisor/supervisee relationship is very different from the professor/student. Supervision is in itself a unique opportunity to share your expertise, skills, and experience with a student or staff member; whereas the teacher has the opportunity to enlighten, introduce, impart knowledge and applications. Sometimes experience as a supervisor will springboard to a teaching position. As a supervisor, the universities your students come from know you. You develop relationships with people in the Social Work Department, and they may hire you if an adjunct position becomes available. Sometimes your alma mater or a university that is affiliated with your hospital or clinic will present an opportunity for you to become involved by working on projects together. This can become the start of a relationship where the university faculty and administrators get to know you and your work, and you get an opportunity to network, which may lead eventually to a position. Teaching is not what most social workers aspire toward when they are considering their career. However, it can be extraordinarily rewarding while working in the field or doing research in academia.
One cannot speak of professional development as a social work professor without mentioning the prominent role of research. Social workers, no matter what area of practice they are in, must recognize that research is integral. Evidence-based practice has been around for quite a while, but not all social workers in the field have been involved in research other than when they were in college. Now is the time for all social workers to recognize the absolute need for evidence to inform their practice and to engage in research to further the knowledge base of social work.
Additionally, engaging in evidenced- based research provides the groundwork for potential innovative policies and programs that positively affect the populations we serve; more specifically, programs and policies that enhance well-being. Such programs include holistic-based/stress management therapies such as aromatherapy, art therapy, music therapy, massage therapy, pet therapy, Reiki therapy, and yoga therapy. Research is imperative in order to gain knowledge on the benefits, costs, and safety issues that accompany such programs. Institutions rely significantly on research results to implement effective programs to better serve their clientele.
Moreover, social workers are at the forefront for conducting research, as we possess strong skills in cultural competence, "grassroots experience," and share an ethical commitment to enhancing the lives of those we serve.
Social work professors have a mandate to teach their students to evaluate, criticize, and utilize research. They also teach students how to do research, and all master's level students must conduct a research project as part of their program. For the most part, if anyone wishes to pursue a career as a social work professor, they must have a strong interest in research, be well versed in research, and have a commitment to do research.
Brownstein, C. (1985). Notes on social word education. Social Service Review, 59, 496-504.
tbarberi@sbhcs.com
My Foundational Learning Began at ExCEL
By Stephanie Taylor, MSW Intern
This past summer, I had the privilege of attending ExCEL in Social Work: ExCELlence in Cancer Education & Leadership before beginning my internship at City of Hope. ExCEL in Social Work gave me the opportunity to begin my internship with a strong foundation in cancer education as I enter the field of social work. Attending ExCEL offered me the opportunity to get to know many social workers in the field of oncology. These colleagues are concerned with providing the best form of clinical care to their patients and being change agents within their institutions.
Connecting the information I learned at ExCEL in Social Work to my social work practice has been hugely beneficial to my internship experience during my second year of graduate school. In the conference I felt more empowered as a social worker and a change agent. There were a couple of core skills I was able to practice while at the course that have already proven foundational in my practice. I was fortunate to have Stacy Remke as my breakout group leader. She worked with our group to empower us to strengthen our commitment to advocacy and leadership as professionals in our institutions through the development of our goals. Writing this newsletter article is progress toward my goal of publishing and contributing to social work literature. I have been able to commit to being a leader by developing a seminar for social work interns that educates about the importance of evidence-informed practice in clinical social work.
As we strengthen our commitment to advocacy and leadership, we contribute and support all aspects of dignity for patients throughout their cancer treatment. We advocate by building a bridge for patients to receive services and lead through professional collaboration in order to provide patient-centered treatment. This year I have had the opportunity to join an interdisciplinary team in a cancer study and further develop the skills of advocacy, leadership and professional collaboration that I learned while at ExCEL in Social Work.
This focus on advocacy, leadership, and professional collaboration has given me a strong foundation and the confidence to join in contributing to the field of social work research. I plan to spend this year collaborating with colleagues in the research and writing of a manuscript on the educational gaps and opportunities within oncology social work. This year at City of Hope offers me the opportunity to develop a foundation to be a change agent in the field of social work. I challenge you to join me in the ExCEL community in its last year and become a part of this elite cohort of professionals!
Author contact: STaylor@coh.org
The last ExCEL in Social Work courses will be offered in Philadelphia, PA (April 21-22, 2014) and Baltimore, MD (May 26-27, 2014) immediately preceding the APOSW and the AOSW Annual Conferences. For further information, browse the ExCEL in Social Work website and complete an application. Please email ExCEL@coh.org with any questions.
2014 Annual Conference Update By Donald Rolfe
2014 Annual Conference Update "What So Proudly We Hail:" Celebrating 30 Years of Oncology Social Work
By Lynsay Landry, MSW, LCSW, OSW-C
As this time of year brings cooler weather, holidays, and time with those we care about, I am reminded of how rapidly time goes by and that our 2014 conference is just around the corner. The Conference Planning Committee has been reflecting on our associations during the past 30 years and our future. We spent time in Philadelphia planning and preparing for an exceptional conference experience in Baltimore this coming May. While I have attended past AOSW conferences, I am so excited to contribute to our profession as a member of the Conference planning Committee. Like many of you, I look forward to networking and learning from fellow colleagues this spring.
We received more than 100 abstracts and we selected speakers who are recognized leaders in oncology social work, AOSW, or first-time presenters. Diverse course offerings will be available¾some for experienced social workers and some for those new to oncology social work. It was enriching to read about the quality services many of you are providing in a variety of practice settings. I am reminded that as oncology social workers we are instrumental in the future of health care and the social work profession.
Moreover, there will be two preconference workshops offered this year. The ExCEL program will be offered again and focus on delivering ExCELlent psychosocial care and building leadership skills. Living Beyond Breast Cancer will offer the second preconference. Additional information will be available on the AOSW website soon!
We are so excited Annie Parker will be the opening keynote speaker. Annie is a cancer survivor and advocate who lost her mother and sister to cancer, underwent genetic testing in 1998, and learned she carries a BRCA1 mutation. Director Steven Bernstein has adapted her life story in the movie Decoding Annie Parker, released this fall. Annie shares her story with others to help raise awareness.
The closing keynote speaker will be AOSW's own Dr. Grace Christ, Professor Emerita of Social Work, Columbia University. She is a co-founder of the Social Work Hospice and Palliative Care Network (SWHPN) and was formerly the director of social work at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City. As a founding and past president of AOSW, Grace will help us reflect on our past, present, and future as oncology social workers.
The conference hotel, Renaissance Baltimore Harborplace, is located in downtown Baltimore near attractions including Camden Yards and Inner Harbor. There will also be time to explore sites like the Maryland Science Center, National Aquarium, American Visionary Art Museum, Baltimore Zoo, and more. So, start preparing now to get ready for beneficial learning, relationship building, boundless opportunities for growth and a great time. The planning committee looks forward to you joining us in beautiful downtown Baltimore at AOSW 2014, May 28-30.
Survival over single-line treatment improved with use of combo drug cancer therapy
December 14, 2010 By Caitlin Jenney
A combination therapy for treating cancer discovered at the University of Colorado Cancer Center showed improved survival rates in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), according to results from a double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial run by Syndax Pharmaceuticals.
The phase 2 results show that the combination of entinostat (Syndax's SNDX-275) and erlotinib was more effective in treating NSCLC in patients with elevated levels of the molecular cancer marker E-cadherin than using erlotinib alone. University of Colorado Cancer Center researchers, who are faculty at the University of Colorado School of Medicine, were the first to identify elevated E-cadherin as a targetable cancer marker, the first to develop the biomarker tumor testing process for elevated E-cadherin and the first to test the combined therapy.
"The outcome of patients with advanced lung cancer has been disappointing historically but the identification of new molecular features and new therapies directed at these molecular features has markedly improved outcome for some patients," said Paul Bunn, MD, professor of medical oncology at the CU medical school and principal investigator of the University of Colorado Cancer Center's Specialized Program of Research Excellence in Lung Cancer, funded by the National Cancer Institute.
"Unfortunately, some of the molecular changes are quite rare," said Bunn. "A more common molecular change is the high expression of epithelial markers such as Ecadherin. HDAC inhibitors such as etinostat can increase the expression of epithelial markers and can delay the development of resistance to EGFR inhibitors such as erlotinib. In this study, the combination of erlotinib and the HDAC inhibitor etinostat lead to a small but not statistically significant improvement in survival in unselected patients but a large and statistically significant improvement in survival in patients with high expression of Ecadherin ( 9.4 months vs.5.4 months). While extremely promising, these results will need to be confirmed in a larger randomized phase III trial."
Data from the phase 2 trial, led by Robert Jotte, MD, PhD, of Denver's Rocky Mountain Cancer Center, was presented recently at the ASTRO 2010 Chicago Multidisciplinary Symposium in Thoracic Oncology, co-sponsored by the American Society for Radiation Oncology, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer and The University of Chicago.
"The data presented suggest that NSCLC patients with elevated E-cadherin levels can do better when treated with entinostat and erlotinib," said Joanna Horobin, MD, president and chief executive officer of Syndax, the company that holds worldwide rights to entinostat.
"Syndax has been a model commercial partner for the University, and we are both encouraged and excited by the Phase 2 results," said David Poticha, senior licensing manager at the CU Technology Transfer Office.
For more information regarding the presentation please visit www.thoracicsymposium.org/. Provided by:
This session examines the impact of the recession on health delivery and health outcomes in Ireland. Speakers will discuss not only the professional challenges faced by Doctors in Ireland, but just how much the recession has and will continue to impact on the health of the Irish population. Finally, the session will conclude with a look at the socio-economic determinants of health and asks are more equal societies healthier?
Dr Ronan Boland – Chair IMO GP Committee
Practicing Medicine with Reduced Resources
Dr Ronan Boland is a graduate of University College Cork. He trained as a General Practitioner on the Cork Vocational Training Scheme. After spells working as a GP in Cavan and Westmeath he was appointed in 1995 to take over the care of a large medical card panel of patients in the Northside of Cork City, where he still practices. He has served as a representative of the Irish Medical Organisation for many years and has served as the Chair of its GP Committee for the last two years.
Professor Charles Normand, Edward Kennedy Chair in Health Policy and Management, TCD
Mapping the Impact of Recession
Charles Normand is Edward Kennedy Professor of Health Policy and Management at Trinity College Dublin. He is also on the Board of St James’s Hospital and is Chair of the WHO European Observatory on Health Systems and Policy. He trained as an economist, and has worked for 25 years on the economics of health and health care.
He has a particular interest in understanding the ways in which ageing impacts on use of health and social care, and on financing of services for older people. His research is mainly on health care finance, equity and access to services, management of chronic diseases, screening policies and end of life care. He is an author of a leading textbook on health economics and the WHO guidebook on social health insurance.
Dr Jane Wilde, Chief Executive of the Institute of Public Health
Are More Equal Societies Healthier?
In 1998 Jane Wilde was appointed Chief Executive of the Institute of Public Health in Ireland (IPH) which aims to promote cooperation between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland in research and information, capacity building and policy advice. Its focus is on health inequalities and building links between research and policy.
Jane is a consultant in public health with over 30 years experience. Her experience has focused on public health policy, particularly prevention of NCDs, social determinants of health and action to tackle health inequalities. She has contributed to a wide range of cross government committees ranging from housing, agriculture and food safety to consumer affairs and poverty. She co-directed the WHO CINDI chronic disease prevention programme and initiated the WHO Healthy Cities Programme in Belfast.
Jane is committed to all-Ireland and international working and has a long term commitment to action to promote health equity. She is an honorary professor at QUB and visiting professor at the University of Ulster. In 1997 she was awarded the annual Alwyn Smith medal by the Faculty of Public Health (UK) and in 2007 she was awarded the CBE for services to public health.
The First Breast & Bowel Cancer Screening Center Now Open | Breast & Bowel Screening
Under the patronage of His Excellency Abdullah bin Khalid Al Qahtani, Minister of Public Health, HE Ahmed bin Abdullah Al-Khulaifi, Assistant Secretary General for Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of Public Health, along with other high-ranking health officials from the public healthcare sector, have formally inaugurated Al Wakra Breast & Bowel Cancer Screening Center.
Among those present at the opening ceremony were officials from the Ministry of Public Health, the National Cancer Program (NCP), the Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) and the Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC).
The opening of the Al Wakra facility signals the formal start of the Breast & Bowel Cancer Screening Program, a population-based cancer screening program also known as 'Screen for Life.' The Al Wakra facility will be further complemented by two more centers located in Leabaib and Rawdat Al Khail, as well as a Mobile Unit van. This will further enable PHCC to effectively and efficiently deliver cancer screening procedures to everyone across the country.
"The opening of the Al Wakra Breast & Bowel Cancer Screening Center marks a significant milestone in the country's efforts towards ensuring the health and well-being of its citizens and residents," said Mariam Ali Abdulmalik, M.D., Managing Director of PHCC. "As a key component of the 'Screen for Life' program, it is manned by highly skilled healthcare professionals who have all been trained to efficiently operate the facility's state-of-the-art equipment.
"We therefore look forward to welcoming people into this facility and delivering a best in class cancer screening service to everyone," she added. "We also wish to extend sincere thanks to His Excellency the Minister of Health for his support and guidance that have made the opening of this facility a reality."
Upon entry of the patient, reception personnel will immediately make visitors feel welcome. There will also be nurses who are capable of providing vital information and responses to all questions from patients about the examination process. Technicians who are not only experts in operating cutting-edge equipment but also in handling patients with care will also be on hand, as well as radiologists who are capable of undertaking the most accurate reading of images.
Nurses will conclude the visit to PHCC or refer patients to HMC depending on the outcome of the exam. The relaxing and spa-like environment makes cancer screening comfortable rather than a burden.
PHCC, a provider of a wide range of primary healthcare services across the State of Qatar, has been given the authority to lead the program under Qatar's National Cancer Program (NCP), which was initiated by the Ministry of Public Health (SCH) upon review of international best practices on excellent cancer care. The program is also consistent with the National Cancer Strategy's key recommendation 5.2, which states the need for a population-based cancer screening program in the country.
The Al Wakra Cancer Screening Center was preceded by the launch of the program's 800 1112 Call Center, where highly trained and qualified English- and Arabic-speaking staff and medical professionals will be on hand to receive cancer screening booking requests, respond to enquiries from the public on cancer screening and proactively reach out to individuals.
