6 Rare Clinical and Radiologic Case of Cholangiocarcinoma Mimicking Pyogenic Abscess, Hepatic Echinococcal Cysts, and Metastases
7 Analysis of Nurses' Work Experience in Comprehensive Nursing Care Units of Small and Medium-sized Hospitals
8 Predictors of Psychiatric Outpatient Adherence after an Emergency Room Visit for a Suicide Attempt
11 Frequency of Depressive Disorders According to Cognitive Continuum in the Elderly Living in the Community
12 Visceral Artery Pseudoaneurysm Rupture after Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography
13 Psychosocial Correlates of Suicidal Attempts
14 Low Diastolic Blood Pressure and Cognitive Decline in Korean Elderly People: The Korean Longitudinal Study on Cognitive Aging and Dementia
15 A study of job stress, suicidal ideation and suicide attempts in display manufacturing workers: a crosssectional study
16 Metabolomics approach to serum biomarker for laxative effects of red Liriope platyphylla in loperamide-induced constipation of SD rats
17 Anhedonia and Dysphoria Are Differentially Associated with the Risk of Dementia in the Cognitively Normal Elderly Individuals: A Prospective Cohort Study
19 Mature Defense Mechanisms Affect Successful Adjustment in Young Adulthood-Adjustment to Military Service in South Korea
Guest Article: GDPR and the US - navigating data protection | Business & Finance
Business, Guest Blog | Thu 27 Sep | Author – Business & Finance
Illustration by Keith Dalton.
Steven Roberts investigates how Irish businesses expanding into the US navigate two data protection cultures
This year has been challenging for businesses as they seek to comply with new data protection rules under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). A recent survey showed that 96% of companies had begun their compliance journey, with 74% expecting to be fully GDPR compliant by the end of the year.
The landscape is particularly demanding for Irish firms operating within the USA as they seek to align two different data protection cultures. In this article, I outline some of the current and upcoming data protection and privacy challenges facing businesses as they start planning for 2019.
The contrast between EU and US approaches to data protection is significant. In the EU, data protection is considered to be about fundamental human rights to privacy and protection. Consumers in the US have traditionally had a more relaxed view of the transfer of personal data in exchange for service delivery.
This is reflected in US legislation, where federal laws are supported by a range of fragmented sectoral and state-oriented approaches. The most recent of these is the California Consumer Privacy Act. Passed in July and providing a host of new privacy rights for Californian residents, it will come into force in 2020. Irish firms operating in the US must ensure they are regularly monitoring the data protection landscape for changes at both a federal and state level.
Given the complexities involved, many international firms have chosen to use GDPR as their default data protection standard. While setting a higher bar for compliance, it removes the operational implications of trying to maintain separate data regimes for EU and non-EU residents.
While GDPR has taken the majority of media coverage recently, firms must not lose sight of another important piece of European legislation in the pipeline. The upcoming ePrivacy Regulation, now likely to be introduced at some point in 2019, will have wide-ranging impact on the area of electronic communications and the same territorial scope as GDPR.
The Regulation will replace the existing 2002 Directive and is part of the EU's strategy for a digital single market. While GDPR seeks to align data protection rules across EU member states, the core focus of the ePrivacy Regulation is to harmonise rules around electronic communications.
It seeks to ensure providers of communication services handle data so that data subjects' privacy and rights are always protected and will impact businesses in a range of ways.
– Streamlining Cookie Rules. Adopting GDPR's principle of privacy by design, web browsers will be required under ePrivacy to provide users with a range of cookie options and tracking controls.
– Content and Metadata. The Regulation will seek to guarantee the privacy of the content of a communication (voice, text, video, image) as well as the meta data associated with it such as location, time and device-related information.
– Direct Marketing. It will be prohibited to send any unsolicited electronic direct mail where consent has not been given, except in the case where email details have been obtained in the context of a sale or service. Postal direct marketing falls outside of the remit of the ePrivacy Regulation, but comes within the scope of GDPR.
– Legal persons are also covered. While GDPR is focused on protecting individuals' personal data, the ePrivacy Regulation also applies to data relating to businesses. The Regulation seeks 'to ensure an equivalent level of protection for natural and legal persons'.
– Tracking walls will no longer be permitted. This will stop companies from requiring consumers to accept being tracked in exchange for accessing online content, posing significant challenges for media, technology and advertising firms in particular.
– Substantial fines. Fines under the new Regulation will be at the same potential levels as GDPR, with a maximum fine of 4% of global turnover or €20 million, whichever is the greater.
An end to Privacy Shield?
Since 2016, many firms transferring data to the US have relied on the Privacy Shield. This is an annually reviewed agreement between the EU and the US. It provides a mechanism to comply with EU data protection requirements when transferring personal data from the European Union to the United States. The agreement is now under threat following a vote by the European Parliament on 5th July of this year, calling for its suspension.
While it is unclear as to how this situation will play out, firms reliant on Privacy Shield would be prudent to explore other GDPR compliant options potentially available to them, such as Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs).
Data protection and privacy legislation will remain high on the agenda for firms over the coming year as ongoing GDPR compliance is implemented. While considerable uncertainty remains with regard to Privacy Shield and the ePrivacy Regulation, Irish businesses who take a watchful approach and seek to put in place early implementation plans will be well placed to prosper in the years ahead.
Steven Roberts is Head of Marketing at Griffith College and a certified data protection officer. He writes on marketing, GDPR and data protection issues. The opinions expressed are the author's. They are not intended as a substitute for seeking professional legal advice.
3E Company Announces Availability of New Chemical Approval Module for its Industry Leading MSDS Management System | Environmental XPRT
3E Company Announces Availability of New Chemical Approval ...
3E Company Announces Availability of New Chemical Approval Module for its Industry Leading MSDS Management System
Module enables customers using 3E Online-MSDS Standard and Expert Editions to streamline chemical request and approval process
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 — 3E Company®, the leading provider of Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) compliance and information management services, today announced the availability of a new Chemical Approval module for use with 3E Online-MSDS Standard Edition and 3E Online-MSDS Expert Edition, the two latest versions of 3E Company's industry-leading Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) management system. The Chemical Approval module streamlines chemical requests and approvals for customers using and storing chemicals.
The module is provided via the 3E Online platform, 3E Company's secure, online hazardous materials information management system. For Chemical Approval module customers, the 3E Online platform enables secure feedback between the requesters of the chemical and the chemical approval managers, which improves collaboration, simplifies the decision-making process and offers immediate access to decision support data. The module is backed by 3E Company's unparalleled regulatory content, which spans more than 700 regulatory lists, 330,000 substances and 75 countries throughout the world.
The Chemical Approval module enables chemical approval managers to perform a hazard assessment of their MSDSs by offering them the opportunity to review main hazard information and fire code classification provided by 3E Company (i.e. carcinogenicity, NFPA, PPE, etc.) along with other EH&S regulatory reports necessary to safely use and store hazardous materials onsite. The customer can also evaluate this data to determine if there is an opportunity to substitute a safer alternative or reduce the number of items in their chemical inventory.
The Chemical Approval module also offers the following features:
• Allows the customer to define which locations require chemical approval.
• Enables the customer to define which users have permission to approve and deny items for specific locations within their facility tree.
• Automatic emails can be sent to requesters and approvers notifying them of any chemical approval status updates.
'Employers that bring hazardous materials into the workplace are responsible for maintaining an accurate chemical inventory and making relevant MSDSs readily available to employees,' said Amber Dumas, associate product manager, 3E Company. 'As new materials are added to a customer's inventory, potential hazards must be evaluated and necessary employee training performed. 3E's comprehensive Chemical Approval module simplifies this process and helps ensure hazardous chemicals are used in a safe and environmentally responsible manner.'
The Chemical Approval module is available immediately for use with 3E Online-MSDS Standard Edition and 3E Online-MSDS Expert Edition. Pricing is based on an annual program fee and the number of products managed in the user's inventory.
No comments were found for 3E Company Announces Availability of New Chemical Approval Module for its Industry Leading MSDS Management System. Be the first to comment!
Work ethics research paper, Essay Service
Essay on work ethics - let us take care of your master thesis qualified writers working in the company will do your paper within the deadline writing a custom essay. Boundaries and rules is paramount to ensuring your work and 4 elsevier | ethics in research interferes with their ability to carry out the research or paper. Free research paper ethics in the workplace this paper is about employees,national,semiconductor,case,company,responsibility,ethics,government.
The journal of social work values and ethics examines the ethical and values issues that impact and are interwoven with social work practice, research, and theory. Work ethics research paper essay writing work from home home / i stopped doing my homework / work ethics research paper. Columbia nurse anesthesia admissions essay caleb beasts of england and comrade napoleon comparison essay presentation on research paper. Ethics and morality the concept that superior and objective systems of morality and ethics can be derived by studying human human embryo & stem cell research. Ethics at work overview research suggests that most regular churchgoers only exhibit ethical click here to return to.
Within philosophy, ethics is a major field of study that tries to define morality in the complex world that we live in the following sample research paper explores. Learn what students have to address in ethics research papers unveil some guidelines that will help you in coming up with an effective thesis statement for your. How to write a research paper on ethics in the workplace this page is designed to show you how to write a research project on the topic you see to the left.
Outline of ethics the following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to or the use of human embryos in research ethics of cloning. Economics research paper a 10 page paper assignment: the best business topics reasons that corporate ethics policies do not work and offer ways. Work ethics research paper marie curie research paper pdf argumentative essay on fast food journal austin prep admissions essay essay politicians oil spill gulf of.
Read this essay on work ethics paper come browse our large digital warehouse of free sample essays get the knowledge you need in order to pass your classes and more. 100 technology topics for research papers updated on what kind of a research paper has your do digital tools make us more or less productive at work. Type of service: writing from scratch work type: follow the instructions deadline: n/a academic level: college (1-2 years: freshman, sophomore) subject or.
Work ethics essay - custom student writing assistance - purchase custom essays, term papers, reports and theses for an affordable price top-quality student writing. Business ethics research paper two primary focuses will be making this a great place to work and developing a strong presence as a company that is good for the. Policies for authors on copyright, article withdrawal, open access and research data, ethics. Esrc research ethics framework working paper – for discussion only not for quotation without permission of the authors discussion paper 4.
From: Early mobilization of mechanically ventilated patients in the intensive care unit
Days between intubation and onset of
[2] 104 Exercise and mobilization Standard care 1.5 7.4 Primary: number of patients returning to independent functional status (ability to perform 6 daily activities and walking independently) at time of discharge from hospital.
Secondary: (1) number of hospital days with delirium
(2) number of ventilator-free days during first 28 days of hospitalization
(3) length of stay in ICU and in hospital
[3] 90 Usual care + bicycle ergometer, 20 min/day, at an intensity level adjusted individually ×5 days/week Respiratory therapy adjusted to the individual needs + standardized sessions of upper and lower extremities mobilization 5 days/week 14 10 Primary: distance covered in 6 min at time of discharge from the hospital
Secondary: isometric quadriceps strength and functional status
[4] 150 Mechanically ventilated patient: physical therapy 15 min/day
Non-mechanically ventilated patients: physical therapy 2 × 15 min
Exercises: walking in place, moving from sitting to standing, arm and leg active and active resistance motion Physical therapists provided respiratory and mobility management, based upon individual patient assessment according to unit protocols
Usual care was available 7 days/week, 12 h/day 5 5 Primary: distance covered in 6 min at 12 months
Secondary: Timed Up and Go Test, physical function in ICU test, assessment of QOL
Instrument utility and short form 36 health survey
[5] 120 Delivered for 30 min/day, 7 days/week, while in ICU.
Intensive physical therapy program included:
1. Proper breathing techniques during exercise
2. Progressive range of motion;
4. Exercises to increase core mobility and strength
5. Retraining of functional mobility Standard of care physical therapy programs based on national survey
Range of motion exercises, positioning, and functional mobility retraining 3 days/week for 20 min in ICU 8 8 Primary: short form of the continuous scale physical functional performance test at 4 weeks
Secondary: number of ICU- and hospital-free days on day 28; discharged home, all-cause mortality on day 28, and institution-free days on days 90 and 180
[6] 50 Early goal-directed mobilization comprised functional rehabilitation treatment at the highest level of activity possible for that patient assessed by the ICU mobility scale while receiving mechanical ventilation. Not based on protocol
All usual unit practices were continued, without restrictions to physical therapy or sedation practice 3 3 Primary: higher maximum level of activity measured using the ICU mobility scale, increased duration of activity measured in min/day during the ICU stay compared with standard care
Secondary: time from admission to first mobilization; duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU and hospital length of stay, and overall duration of hospitalization; serious adverse events, number of ventilator- and ICU-free days on day 28; measurement of physical function with the physical function in ICU, the functional status score in ICU, and the Medical Research Council Manual Muscle Tests; ICU-acquired weakness
[7] 300 Standardized rehabilitation therapy
7 days a week from enrollment through hospital discharge
protocol contained 3 exercise types: passive range of motion, physical therapy, and progressive resistance exercises Usual care; received routine care as dictated by the patient's attending physician from Monday through Friday 1 7 Primary: hospital length of stay
Secondary: Short Performance Physical Battery score, muscular strength, short form Functional Performance Inventory score, 36-Item Short Form Health Survey physical health survey and mental health survey, mini-mental state examination score (measure of physical function were obtained at ICU discharge, hospital discharge and 2, 4, and 6 months after enrollment, health-related quality-of-life measures were obtained at hospital discharge and 2,4, and 6 months after enrollment)
Footprints Carolina Inc Recovery Services in Gastonia NC
Footprints Carolina Inc Inpatient Rehab Programs with a primary focus on Mental health services and drug rehab. Specializing in Outpatient Substance Abuse Treatment and Drug Rehab Program Gastonia North Carolina area.
Heroin use in Tennessee | WBNS-10TV Columbus, Ohio
Heroin use in Tennessee Saturday April 5, 2014 10:15 AM
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Some states, including Tennessee, are reporting a rise in heroin use as prescription drug addicts shift from more costly and increasingly harder-to-come-by pain pills to this cheaper alternative. Here's a look at what's happening in Tennessee:
Police and health officials say that abuse of prescription painkillers is still the biggest drug problem in Tennessee, but it's also linked to the resurgence of heroin in the state. Tennessee has historically had one of the highest prescription drug abuse rates in the country.
"I think, unfortunately, until we get a handle on the pill issue we're going to have this heroin issue," said Michael Stanfill, assistant special agent in charge of the Tennessee office of the federal Drug Enforcement Agency. "They go hand in hand. You can't say, 'Hey, let's go out and attack this heroin issue without looking at the pill issue.' "
The supply of heroin, which is mainly coming from the Mexican cartels, is on the rise across the state, Stanfill said.
Mexican cartels are well aware that Tennessee has been plagued with prescription drug abuse, and they are targeting pill addicts specifically by selling heroin that is far cheaper, the DEA agent said.
Numbers in Tennessee are hard to come by. State Health Department Officials say overdose deaths from heroin and painkillers are lumped into the same category, so it's impossible to tell if there is an increase in the number of people who are dying because of the heroin. Limited state figures, however, point to more demand for heroin addiction treatment.
Records show that from fiscal year 2011 to fiscal year 2013 there was an increase from 217 to 396 people seeking state-funded treatment for heroin. The records don't reflect demand for treatment at private drug rehabilitation facilities across the state. A spokesman for the Tennessee Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse said in an email to The Associated Press that records of requests for addiction treatment at state-funded centers only go back to 2011.
Police worry that resurgence in the use of heroin is going to lead to more overdose deaths, higher crimes rates, more children sent to foster care because of addicted parents and the rise of more babies born dependent on heroin. Nashville police have said that a rise in heroin in Music City has been fueling property crimes and thefts as heroin addicts steal to get the money to pay for their high. ©2016 by The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Currently in Columbus
MedicalResearch.com | Hemophilia: New Fusion Protein Allows For Less Frequent Dosing To Prevent Bleeding
11 Dec Hemophilia: New Fusion Protein Allows For Less Frequent Dosing To Prevent Bleeding
Posted at 15:57h in Author Interviews, Hematology by Marie Benz MD FAAD
Dr. Elena Santagostino, MD PhD
Ca' Granda Foundation
Maggiore Hospital Policlinico, Milan, Italy
Dr. Santagostino: Two of our abstracts presented at the 57th ASH Annual Meeting are part of the PROLONG-9FP clinical program evaluating the efficacy and safety of CSL Behring's investigational long-acting fusion protein linking recombinant coagulation factor IX with recombinant albumin (rIX-FP). The first is an oral presentation on results from two Phase III studies and an ongoing extension study of rIX-FP for routine prophylaxis in previously-treated people with hemophilia B.
The two Phase III studies included adolescents and adults (ages 12 to 61) treated with dosing intervals of up to 14 days for 12 to 18 months, and children (ages 1 to 11) who received seven-day prophylaxis treatment for approximately 12 months. Overall, the median annualized spontaneous bleeding rate (AsBR) was 0.00 for all treatment intervals. The extension study is examining longer treatment intervals, including 10- and 14-day intervals in patients younger than 12 and more prolonged treatment intervals in patients older than 18, and so far has reported favorable long-term tolerability with no serious adverse reactions such as the development of inhibitors to factor IX or antibodies to rIX-FP.
A second abstract reported on a surgical sub-study in these trials found that a single pre-operative dose of rIX-FP maintained hemostasis during surgery with responses rated by investigators as "excellent" or "good." Oven a 14-day perioperative period, patients needed six or seven infusions, and none developed inhibitors to factor IX or antibodies to rIX-FP.
Dr. Santagostino: These latest results are promising and confirm the data we saw in our pivotal studies, with prolonged dosing intervals of up to 14 days with rIX-FP for routine prophylaxis. This is an important attribute for patients who require a prophylactic regimen but don't want treatment to disrupt their active lives.
Dr. Santagostino: rIX-FP has been developed with a pharmacokinetic profile that allows for less frequent dosing. Through the ongoing extension study, we are continuing to evaluate longer treatment intervals and the potential impact on preventing bleeding in select patients.
Citation: Abstracts Presented at the 57th American Society of Hematology
Efficacy and safety of rIX-FP in previously-treated children, adolescents, and adults and
rIX-FP in previously-treated patients undergoing surgery
548 Efficacy and Safety Results of Prolong-9FP Clinical Program of Recombinant Fusion Protein Linking Coagulation Factor IX with Albumin (rIX-FP) in Previously Treated Patients with Hemophilia B
Session: 322. Disorders of Coagulation or Fibrinolysis: Novel Treatment Strategies in Hemophilia Monday, December 7, 2015: 10:45 AM
W311ABCD, Level 3 (Orange County Convention Center)
Elena Santagostino, MD, PhD1, Christine Voigt, PhD2*, Denise Wolko2*, Grace Cole2*, Yanyan Li, PhD2* and Iris C. Jacobs, MD2
1Centro Emofilia e Trombosi, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy
2CRD, CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA
2304 Successful Use of rFVIII, Turoctocog Alfa, during Orthopedic and Nonorthopedic Surgery in Patients with Severe Hemophilia A
Luigi Solimeno, MD1*, Steven R. Lentz, MD, PhD2, Irina Matytsina, MD3*, Niels Zeuthen4*, Faraizah Abdul Karim, MD5*and Elena Santagostino, MD, PhD6
1Department of Orthopedic Surgery and Traumatology, Ca' Grande Foundation, Maggiore Hosptial Policlinico, Milan, Italy
2University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA
3Novo Nordisk A/S, Soeborg, Denmark
5National Blood Center, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
6Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, Ca' Granda Foundation, Maggiore Hospital Policlinico, Milan, Italy
Dr. Elena Santagostino, MD PhD (2015). Hemophilia: New Fusion Protein Allows For Less Frequent Dosing To Prevent Bleeding MedicalResearch.com
Neonatal Encephalopathy | Tampa General Hospital
Neonatal encephalopathy is a syndrome characterized by neurological dysfunction in newborns.
Neonatal encephalopathy describes central nervous system dysfunction related to brain injuries in babies born at 35 weeks of gestation or later. It is an uncommon syndrome that is sometimes associated with cerebral palsy, hydrocephalus, brain damage and seizure disorders. Still, when promptly identified and treated, it's possible for babies with neonatal encephalopathy to live healthy lives with no long-term brain damage or medical complications.
The most common cause of neonatal encephalopathy is a shortage of oxygen to the baby during birth or pregnancy. When oxygen deficiency is to blame for neonatal encephalopathy, this syndrome may be referred to as hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE).
Other possible causes of neonatal encephalopathy include:
A congenital brain abnormality
An infection in the mother's womb during pregnancy
A metabolic disorder, such as phenylketonuria
Intracranial or extracranial hemorrhaging (brain bleeding)
The signs and symptoms of neonatal encephalopathy may be mild or severe depending on each baby's unique case. Most babies with this syndrome present one or more of the following symptoms immediately after birth:
An absent or quiet cry
Additional signs and symptoms of neonatal encephalopathy include:
Neck stiffness related to meningitis
Spastic or stiff muscles (hypertonia)
Unusually floppy arms or legs (hypotonia)
Poor Apgar scores (a test used to summarize risk of infant mortality)
Neonatal Encephalopathy Diagnosis
The signs of neonatal encephalopathy are often recognized shortly after birth during a routine medical examination. In these instances, the baby is transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) for specialized evaluation and treatment. In other cases, children may not be diagnosed until later in childhood when key developmental milestones are missed.
Diagnosing neonatal encephalopathy typically involves a combination of neuroimaging tests, physical examinations and clinical labs.
Neonatal Encephalopathy Treatments
A full scope of diagnostics and treatment for neonatal encephalopathy is available at Tampa General Hospital's Women's Institute. Each child's unique care plan will vary, but common treatment approaches to this syndrome include therapeutic hypothermia (brain cooling) immediately following birth and med
What Is Consider To Low For Blood Pressure? - Blurtit
Blood pressure readings use the systolic pressure at the beginning, followed by the diastolic blood pressure - so a low blood pressure would be when the systolic pressure is less than 90 and the diastolic pressure is below 60. A normal and healthy blood pressure reading, according to the American Heart Association, is around the 120/80 mark. You should be aiming for this but obviously not everybody will be bang on this mark.
Experts in this field don't use the one number to define a dangerously low blood pressure, however. Blood pressure readings for different people will mean different things, and what is too low for one person may be sufficient for another -given that everyone's bodies are different. Low blood pressure can be really dangerous, the Mayo Clinic points out. If the blood pressure goes low suddenly and unexpectedly then it will produce noticeable and unpleasant symptoms.
There are three general kinds of low blood pressure that cause noticeable and unpleasant symptoms, and these three can be dangerous. There is the neutrally mediated hypotension, or NMH, which is low blood pressure that drops soon after standing up for a long period of time, or because of extreme emotional distress in a person.
Then there is orthostatic hypotension. This is low blood pressure that can occur in a person when they are rising from a sitting or lying position. Many people experience this if they sit up or stand up too quickly after having been sat down or lay down for a long period of time.
Then there is severe hypotension, which is low blood pressure that can ultimately lead to shock. It is a potentially fatal condition whereby blood pressure is that low that vital organs like the kidneys and the brain do not get enough blood to be able to keep the body running the way that it should do.
If the blood pressure reading that is lower than 90 systolic or 60 diastolic is consider as low blood pressure reading. Even the one reading is lower than normal it is considered as low blood pressure.
It certainly doesn't sound as if you're having a problem with your blood pressure. 100 over 50 is getting a little low. You should consult your doctor. He might want to adjust your blood pressure meds.
What about when it get to 89 over 44 with a very low pluse rate
Usually 120/80 is the one we all aim for but yours sounds too low. If you are taking blood pressure meds, you doc may want to reevaulate the dosage.
