Posted on 25 February 2011. Tags: Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Cancer, health, Montefiore, nanotechnology, research
By: Mehroz Baig
Ron, a 79-year-old Bronx man, remembers the day a CAT scan revealed something was seriously wrong with his health.
“While the tech was doing the scan, she had this look on her face,” he said. “She said, ‘excuse me,’ and went and got the doctor.” The scan eventually showed he had developed pancreatic cancer.
Ron asked for his last name to be withheld because he hasn’t told much of his family or his friends that he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in August 2010 and he doesn’t want them to worry.
Ron is a small figure who walks fast wearing a white, short-brimmed hat covering a head of light gray hair and a black sports jacket. His health has put many restraints on his life: as he puts it, his plumbing isn’t what it used to be. But he maintains a sense of humor. He talks about the nurses who take care of him and says that he likes to joke with them.
“They feel bad for everyone that has to be treated,” he says. “When I kid around, you get a rapport with them, you become friends.”
Pancreatic cancer can occur in two forms: one attacks the part of the pancreas that creates enzymes which make regulatory hormones, like insulin to control glucose levels in blood, explains Dr. Steven Libutti, director of the Montefiore-Einstein Center for Cancer Care. This cancer is called pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer. This is is the kind of cancer that Ron has. The second form of pancreatic cancer is called pancreatic adenocarcinoma, which attacks the part of the pancreas responsible for helping the body digest foods. Adenocarcinoma occurs more frequently and is more deadly.
“Life expectancy for pancreatic adenocarcinomas is often measured in months whereas life expectancy for pancreatic neuroendocrine carcinoma can be measured in years,” Libutti said.
Libutti , who is also associate director for clinical services at the Albert Einstein Cancer Center, says that although pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer is less prevalent, it is increasing.
“Part of it may be we have better means of diagnosing or detecting them and part of it may be that they actually are increasing in incidence,” Libutti said.
The National Cancer Institute estimates that in 2010, there were approximately 43,000 new cases of pancreatic cancer in the United States. That same year, there were 36,800 deaths by pancreatic cancer in the U.S. The data was not split between the two types of pancreatic cancers. According to the New York State Department of Health, there were 2,768 cases of pancreatic cancer diagnosed in 2007. That same year in New York, there were 2,280 deaths from pancreatic cancer.
Libutti is heading the most recent venture in cancer treatment and detection at Montefiore and Albert Einstein Cancer Center. Through a partnership with four other institutions in Texas, Libutti and his team applied for a grant from the National Cancer Institute to research the use of nanotechnology to diagnose and treat pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer and ovarian cancer. In September, the team was granted a $16 million, five-year grant to pursue this technology.
Nanoparticles are tiny particles, smaller than the diameter of a human hair. “The idea is that nanomedicines can be engineered to have unique properties that might allow them to help in the development of therapeutics that can be targeted to tumors as opposed to having a general effect on the entire body,” Libutti said.
Imagine a cancer tumor having a zip code, Libutti says. His goal with this research is to design an agent that can read that zip code. Once the agent is injected into the body, it would go directly to the zip code where the tumor lives. Once that is accomplished, the agent can be sent with medicine to kill the tumor or some other substance that would allow doctors to see the tumor more clearly.
Currently, there are various treatment options for people who are diagnosed with pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer: surgery is usually the first option. If a person is not able to have surgery, either due to medical conditions or because the patient chooses not to, other options include octreotide injections or sunitinib pills, both medicines that slow the growth of neuroendocrine tumors. “Traditional chemotherapy doesn’t work for endocrine cancers,” Libutti said.
Libutti points out that the concept for this research is not new. Doctors use iodine, for example, to diagnose and treat thyroid cancer. There isn’t a naturally occurring substance that responds to pancreatic cancer tumors the way iodine does to thyroid cancer. Libutti’s research aims to fill that void by creating something that will serve the same purpose that iodine does for thyroid cancer.
Steven K. Libutti, director of Montefiore-Einstein Center for Cancer Care, is investigating nanoparticles for imaging and treating pancreatic tumors as part of a national five-institution research project funded by the NCI. Pictured in the lab with Dr. Libutti is Mijung Kwon, a senior scientist at Einstein. (Photo Credit: Albert Einstein College of Medicine)
Libutti says that if the research is successful, his team could have a working form of nanomedicine ready to use in seven to ten years. Although the Einstein-Montefiore investigators are focusing on the pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer, the research could produce a substance that would also be useful for pancreatic adenocarcinoma as well as ovarian cancer. These cancers are not linked but they were chosen because of the expertise and interests of the investigating teams.
“My question would be, is this something that they’d be able to detect early?” asked Kristen Angell, affiliate coordinator at the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network’s chapter in Connecticut. Angell’s father was diagnosed with the deadly pancreatic adenocarcinoma in April of last year and was given a year to live. Angell was her father’s caretaker during the last year of his life and says that early detection of adenocarcinoma is crucial to fighting this disease.
Angell points to the progress that’s been made in breast cancer and says she hopes the same efforts can be directed towards pancreatic cancer.
In the meantime, Ron continues his treatment with Dr. Libutti. Although he hadn’t felt too much pain in the beginning, he says he recently started getting an ache on the right side of his body, which he hopes to address with the nurse the next time he is at the hospital. Ron’s pancreatic tumors have spread to his liver, and while the treatment is meant to slow their growth, it is too early to tell what, if any progress has been made.
Since October 2010, Ron has been going to Montefiore for blood work every two weeks, a shot every month, and periodic CAT scans. Having survived a heart attack, prostate cancer seventeen years ago, and now living with a pacemaker, Ron simply did not think that he could survive a major cancer surgery and opted for the second treatment option of monthly injections that slow the growth of the cancerous tumors.
“I’m like an old car,” he jokes.
Ron has found ways to cope with his health: he maintains a strict diet, donates to children’s organizations and prays.
“I got to church a lot,” Ron says, “more so in the last couple of years when my health started deteriorating. I’ve lived my life. I want to live more but it’s in God’s hands.”
(Click on the interactive below to see pancreatic cancer cases and deaths for all five New York boroughs from 1976 to 2007.)
Risankizumab Receives FDA Approval for Active Psoriatic Arthritis
AbbVie announced the FDA approval to their IL-23 inhibitor risankizumab-rzaa (Skyrizi) for treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in adult patients based on the results of the KEEPsAKE-1 and KEEPsAKE-2 trials.
The FDA has approved risankizumab-rzaa (Skyrizi; AbbVie) for the treatment of adults with active psoriatic arthritis (PsA), according to a release from AbbVie.1
Risankizumab-rzaa is an inflammatory pathway interleukin(IL)-23 inhibitor and this is the second indication that it is being approved for. It is also approved for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in 2019. This most recent approval is based on the results of the KEEPsAKE-1 (NCT03675308) and KEEPsAKE-2 (NCT03671148) trials.
"In the pivotal KEEPsAKE trials, SKYRIZI demonstrated improvements across a number of psoriatic arthritis symptoms, including joint pain, enthesitis and dactylitis," said Alan J. Kivitz, MD, CPI, founder and medical director of the Altoona Center for Clinical Research and Altoona Arthritis and Osteoporosis Center in Pennsylvania and KEEPsAKE clinical trial investigator, in the aforementioned release. "This approval provides both dermatologists and rheumatologists with an option that helps improve skin and joint symptoms in patients with active psoriatic arthritis, alongside a quarterly dosing schedule that may fit their patients' lifestyle."
The KEEPsAKE-1 and KEEPsAKE-2 trials were phase 3 studies assessing the efficacy and safety of the therapy in adults with PsA as well as those who had responded inadequately or with intolerance to biologic therapy and/or disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs).
The primary endpoint sought by KEEPsAKE investigators was an American College of Rheumatology 20% improvement (ACR20) response at week 24. Data showed:1
In KEEPsAKE-1 and KEEPsAKE-2, 57.3% and 51.3% of patients receiving risankizumab achieved the primary endpoint of ACR20 response at week 24, respectively, versus 33.5%and 26.5% receiving placebo. Risankizumab also demonstrated improvements in ACR50 and ACR70 responses compared to placebo at week 24.
Risankizumab showed improvements in other key manifestations of PsA compared to placebo at week 24, including improvements in dactylitis and enthesitis for patients with pre-existing dactylitis and enthesitis.
Patients with coexistent plaque psoriasis receiving risankizumab-rzaa saw improvements in the skin lesions of psoriasis, compared to placebo, as measured by the Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI 90) at week 24.
Risankizumab showed a statistically significant improvement in physical function, compared to placebo, as measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index at week 24, with a mean difference of 0.20 in KEEPsAKE-1 and 0.16 in KEEPsAKE-2
The rates of adverse events (AEs) leading to discontinuation for patients. treated with risankizumab was 0.8% and 0.9% in both trials, respectively. For those on placebo, the discontinuation rates were 0.8% and 2.3%, respectively.
"Patients often do not suspect a connection between their psoriasis skin symptoms and the joint pain, swelling and stiffness they may be experiencing, potentially leading to a delay in diagnosis and treatment of psoriatic arthritis," said Thomas Hudson, MD, senior vice president of research and development and chief scientific officer with AbbVie. "We're proud to expand the use of SKYRIZI to patients with psoriatic arthritis who are living with the debilitating combination of skin and joint symptoms."
1. U.S. FDA Approves Second Indication for SKYRIZI® (risankizumab-rzaa) to Treat Adults with Active Psoriatic Arthritis. Published January 21, 2022. Accessed January 28, 2022. https://news.abbvie.com/news/press-releases/us-fda-approves-second-indication-for-skyrizi-risankizumab-rzaa-to-treat-adults-with-active-psoriatic-arthritis.htm?view_id=2421
Why research alone isn't enough for the life sciences sector - The Scotsman
Published: 17:49 Friday 17 November 2017
The ability to derive commercial advantage from innovation excellence has been a long-standing challenge for the life sciences sector in Scotland.
All major breakthroughs are based on innovation and great ideas, but how do we harness that intellectual and innovation capital effectively, to turn it into direct economic benefit?
Dave Tudor, co-chairman of the Life Sciences Scotland Industry Leadership Group (ILG), says: "We are creating more intellectual property per head in Scotland than anywhere, but we see companies buying that innovation from Scotland and making things elsewhere.
"We need to commercialise more of that innovation in Scotland and do more manufacturing here.
"About £800 million of the £4.2 billion sector turnover comes from manufacturing and we need to increase that to maximise the benefits of innovation."
Professor Sir Pete Downes, principal of Dundee University, the leading UK university for life sciences research, agrees that the balance needs to shift.
His university has around 1,000 people working in life sciences research and it was named last month as the world's "most influential scientific research institution in pharmaceuticals" for 2006-16.
Downes, a pioneering biochemist before moving into academia, says: "When I arrived, life sciences was mainly focused on leading in an academic sense, with great papers and inspirational knowledge.
"Slowly there was a realisation that, if you are substantially funded by public money, you have a responsibility to make the knowledge from your research usable.
"Now we are making things happen through the Drug Discovery Unit. Great research is not enough."
This matters in Dundee, where almost one-sixth of the city region economy is based on life sciences,
fuelled by what Downes calls "a complex set of interdependent relationships".
He says: "The whole agenda of turning knowledge into economic growth has interested me for a long time.
"We have spun out 21 life sciences businesses from the university; the majority are still trading with a turnover of £40m."
Julia Brown, who heads life sciences for Scottish Enterprise, says: "This interface between academia and industry affects a range of industries but it is particularly important in life sciences.
"How do we encourage companies to come here to engage with that research base and how do we get assets out of the universities into the marketplace?"
Downes says it isn't just about university spin-outs: "We get a lot of investment at Dundee from major pharma companies wanting to work with us but, unless you get businesses relocating, you don't maximise long-term economic advantage.
"Start-up companies can deliver that – if we can keep them in the city."
Downes notes that, despite Dundee's pre-eminence in life sciences, none of Scotland's relevant innovation centres is based in the city.
In the past five years, Scotland has created six innovation centres aligned to life sciences, with a core funding of around £100m: the Stratified Medicine Scotland Innovation Centre; the Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre; the Digital Health and Care Institute; the Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre; the Centre for Sensor and Imaging Systems and the Data Lab.
Brown sees innovation centres as a "really important element" in the industry-academia interface.
She adds: "It is important they can work on public and private sector projects where they can have significant societal or economic impact.
"Innovation centres allow organisations to take a bit of a risk.
"We need to give them time to do that but make sure they are focused on what is good for the Scottish business base, doing things that will help make us internationally competitive.
"They have to carve out a distinct niche.
"They started at different times and their ability to deliver for the sector has been varied.
"They are a long-term, not a short-term, play and have another five to ten years to show transformational impacts."
But what of the innovators operating outside funded centres, those entrepreneurs constantly making things happen?
The strategy says Scotland needs to "attract, develop and retain" entrepreneurial leadership, create a supportive environment for innovators and "nurture serial entrepreneurs". How can it do that?
Tudor says: "We do not have enough entrepreneurial leadership and we need to build a critical mass.
"We have a good idea coming out of our universities almost every month but how do we support those innovators?
"We need to help them understand how Scotland works, show them the pathway – explain the grants system, give them access to the right people in the Scottish Government. The ILG needs to look at a leadership masterclass-type course for maybe 15 innovators from high-growth companies – to teach them how Scotland operates – and cascade that knowledge through the industry."
And what about the intellectual property created in Scotland? How aware are life sciences innovators of the need to protect their IP?
Richard Gibbs, managing partner of patent attorney Marks & Clerk in Glasgow, says: "Scottish-based business is knowledgeable about IP.
"Pockets of UK business lack an understanding of what IP can do, and what can and can't be protected, but Scotland is pro-active and seeks opportunities.
"When you add in the fact that universities have well-organised and knowledgeable business development and technology transfer teams, it is easy to see how the life sciences community is structured to drive and protect innovation. Scotland is well-equipped to help new and developing companies achieve their aims and ambitions."
Professor Anna Dominiczak of Glasgow University says a key factor in supporting innovators is playing the long game.
"Long-term funding for innovation is hugely important.
"Sometimes we think it's OK to push things for a year or two, but initiatives that are not long-term do not produce."
Brown says hubs are vitally important to the continued success of an innovative sector, including Edinburgh BioQuarter, BioDundee and BioCity near Glasgow.
"It's about getting that critical mass of people and activity in one place," she says.
"Things can really happen where you have industry, academia and clinicians sharing the same space, having constant dialogue and developing joint projects. The innovation capital you get from that is greater than when they are dispersed.
"It also gives businesses a safe space to experiment and try new things in a semi-protected environment, with the right entrepreneurs and mentors around them."
Hans Möller, the director of Edinburgh BioQuarter, agrees that one of its key functions is to stimulate collaboration to drive innovation.
Edinburgh BioQuarter has real strength in stem cell research (with the highest concentration of stem cell researchers in Europe) and regenerative medicine, but Möller is also excited by its strength in informatics and the opportunity to encourage collaboration between life sciences and data science, with the Edinburgh City Region Deal looking to invest further in this area.
He is optimistic about the future but says the sector needs plenty of plates spinning and must keep supporting innovators.
He says: "To continue at the current growth rate, the sector needs a couple of big successes.
"It's always hard to predict in life sciences; you can have a really good project but then something happens to the medical side or the funding side and it falls.
"It's tricky. You need a number of promising projects ongoing."
Möller says an anchor tenant is essential for a project such as BioQuarter and cites his own experience in running the largest science park in Scandinavia, in Sweden.
"You don't always need a big company coming in with 500 jobs," he says.
"You can grow small businesses into larger ones. In Sweden, Eriksson started with a small team of 12 and that grew to 5,000 within 15 years and later became Sony Erik-sson and Sony Mobile." n
The Scotland Can Do: An Innovation Action Plan outlines the national priorities for innovation. In the life sciences sector, our priorities for action will include capitalising on the work of the innovation and excellence centres, supporting scale-up operations to maximise the impact on our economy, and growing and strengthening our entrepreneurial base. The priorities are:
Drive growth through collaboration to commercialise the output of innovation and excellence centres
We will support and facilitate development and deployment of commercialisation strategies for key centres for innovation and research excellence.
We will work across the sector to transfer know-how and facilitate exploitation of existing intellectual assets into sustainable production.
Improve on the current ecosystem to maximise economic growth and create more companies of scale
We will ensure Scottish businesses have both the infrastructure and support required for scale-up; we will support the engagement of Scottish companies with recognised international investors to generate larger deal opportunities.
We will build on the Health Innovation Partnership model to develop and pilot Scottish innovation and increase awareness of the health technology assessment process.
Attract, develop and retain entrepreneurial leadership across academia, the health service and industry
We will encourage and reward the entrepreneurial flair of our business, academic and clinical leaders, nurturing the serial entrepreneurs who will continue to contribute to the growth of the sector.
We will create a more supportive environment for entrepreneurs; enabling the transfer of key individuals between industry and academia to create a seamless flow of ideas and experience across the sector.
Managing cholestrol levels as we age – Happy60plus
Managing cholestrol levels as we age
Cholesterol is a "waxy" substance that is much needed by your body to make cells, vitamins and other hormones. While it isn't inherently bad, excess of cholesterol does cause problems. As we age our bodies cholesterol receptors naturally weaken, especially in men over 45 and women over 55.
Even though it sounds grim it is fairly easy to manage cholesterol levels as we age. Some easy ways we can do so are:
Limiting foods in High Saturated Fats: Saturated fats come from animal products such as cheese, fatty meats, and dairy desserts and tropical oils such as palm oil.Eat foods naturally high in fiber, such as oatmeal and beans (black(काले सेम), kidney (राजमा), and others) and unsaturated fats, which can be found in avocado, vegetable oils like olive oil, and nuts.
Maintaining a healthy and consistent weight. Obesity is directly linked to higher cholesterol levels. Keeping our weight in check prevents build up of cholesterol over a period of time.
Regular physical activity helps maintain a consistent weight and also lowers your blood pressure.
Certain supplements like fish oil are rich in Omega-3 fatty acids which reduce the amount of fat in your blood and help keep Cholesterol in check.
Sometimes healthy lifestyle changes aren't enough to lower cholesterol levels. If your doctor recommends medication to help lower your cholesterol, take it as prescribed while continuing your lifestyle changes. Lifestyle changes can help you keep your medication dose low.
Beyond this it is important that we remember that rising cholesterol levels is a natural process which starts around the age of 20. The levels in which it rises however can be kept in check by us. Doctors recommend Men above age 45 and women above age 55 to check their cholesterol levels every 2-3 years.
Sources: 1) https://www.healthline.com/health/high-cholesterol/foods-to-increase-hdl
2) https://www.pro-activ.com/en-gb/heart-and-cholesterol/high-cholesterol-causes/cholesterol-and-aging
Echocardiography in Pediatric and Adult Congenital Heart Disease - Eidem Benjamin W. et al. - 2014 год
Med-books.by - Библиотека медицинской литературы » Диагностика » Echocardiography in Pediatric and Adult Congenital Heart Disease - Eidem Benjamin W. et al. - 2014 год
Автор: MegaCoder, 5-10-2017, 20:59 | Раздел: Диагностика
This comprehensive resource is edited by experts at the Mayo Clinic--a world-renowned center for echocardiography. In this revision, the editors plan to incorporate new imaging strategies in the diagnosis of congenital heart disease in both peds and adult populations. In particular, more detail on 3-D echo, information on the proper usage of TEE, and the increasing importance of followup MRI will be presented. Based on reviewer comments, the editors will include more MRI angiograms, more detailed information on prosthetic valve and posttransplant care, and more correlative anatomic examples in relevant chapters.
Diagnosis and Management of Adult Congenital Heart Disease - Gatzoulis M.A. ...
Diagnosis and Management of Adult Congenital Heart Disease, by Drs. Gatzoulis, Webb, and Daubeney, is a practical, one-stop resource designed to help you manage the unique challenges of treating long-term adult survivors of congenital heart disease.
Echocardiographic Atlas of Adult Congenital Heart Disease - Sadeghian H., S ...
This atlas of echocardiography presents more than 100 cases of adult congenital heart disease, from diagnosis to treatment follow-up. The coverage is broad, encompassing atrial and ventricular septal defects, patent ductus arteriosus, cyanotic adult
Echocardiography in Pediatric and Congenital Heart Disease - Lai Wyman W., ...
Finally, a resource that takes full advantage of modern technology! In a major advance for pediatric cardiology, this text/DVD set covers ultrasound physics; laboratory set-up; a protocol for a standard pediatric echocardiogram; quantitative methods of
Atlas of Pediatric Cardiac CTA: Congenital Heart Disease - Richardson R.R. ...
The book is a concise visual guide to the imaging of congenital heart disease in infants and children. The book focuses on the utilization of cardiac CTA imaging for pediatric patients as distinct from adult patients, with an emphasis on techniques for
The ESC Textbook of Cardiovascular Imaging - Zamorano J.L. - 2010 год
Adult Congenital Heart Disease: Focusing on Intervention - Masuda M., Niwa ...
This book describes the most popular topics concerning adult congenital heart disease (ACHD), especially focusing on indications and re-intervention procedures for some major ACHDs. Thanks to advances in medical and surgical therapy for congenital heart
Home	About Us	Mission	Our MD Editions	Our VA Editions	Editorial Calendar	Employment	Testimonials	From Our Customers	Write Your Testimony	Articles	Article Categories	Latest Articles	Health Professionals Directory	Acupuncture	Allergies & Asthma	Attorney	Audiology & Hearing Aids	Bariatric Surgery	Cardiology	Cellulite Reduction	Child Care and Safety	Chiropractic	Chiropractic & Acupuncture	Clinical Hypnotherapy	Cosmetic Dentistry	Cosmetic Enhancement Practice	Cosmetic Surgery	Counseling	More...	Get Featured	Doctor Login	Contact Us	Monday, 23 March 2015 00:00	Acupuncture For Muscle Spasms
By Y.C. Chan, OMD, Dipl Ac
Y.C. Chan, OMD, Dipl Ac Muscle spasms and cramps can be very painful for many people. They are symptoms of involuntary contractions of the muscles. Common areas affected are the neck, back, shoulders, hands, legs, thighs, as well as the abdomen.
Night or day, active or inactive, sitting or standing, muscle spasm may occur. Even healthy people may have muscle spasms from time to time during their life, but the senior citizens will have this problem more often than young people.
In the early onset of an injury, patients feel tightness around the muscle area. If that area does not heal or heal improperly, after a few days or a few weeks the muscle knots and becomes very painful. A diagnosis is sometimes difficult to obtain. The medical term for a muscle knot is myofascial trigger point, which is similar to the acupuncture ASH point.
In acupuncture theory, there are many reasons for muscle spasm, such as yin and yang energy imbalance, limited blood supply to the local muscle area, lack of exercise, improper activities, lack of potassium in diet, vitamin deficiencies, as well as different injuries and many chronic diseases.
Some patients with a history of muscle spasms have lifted or pushed something too heavy and the muscle fibers have tore, causing bleeding into the tissue. They may have injured the nerves as well. The patient may not realize why they are in so much pain. In addition, the tearing of ligaments around the joint is called a sprain, which can cause severe pain around that area. If the case gets worse, patient can be temporary disabled.
Muscle spasm may be produced by nerve irritation from muscle strains and sprains, and by neurological disorders not related to the injuries. They may follow strokes or spinal injuries.
Whatever the cause of muscle strains or muscle spasms, acupuncture is a safe and effective treatment for relieving the pain. Some patients experience considerable relief after the first treatment. Some other patients may need many treatments for lasting relief.	Additional Info
Publishing | e-EPS
By Graeme Watt. Published on 22 March 2016 in:
Features, March 2016, EPL, Features, Publishing
Authors may now submit additional text content (e.g. tables of raw/analysed data, computer code, derivations of equations) to be associated with an article as supplementary material. This material must not be crucial to a reader's understanding of the associated article but the explanatory text could provide an aid to some readers. Supplementary material must not be used to avoid the article length limit.
By Janne Seppänen, Markus Ahlskog. Published on 23 November 2015 in:
News, November 2015, peer review, Publishing
There is a broad consensus that Peer review is the cornerstone of academic publishing. However, there is also a widespread perception that it currenntly has severe problems. Peerage of Science [PoS] is a free service that proposes to solve the issues of peer review with a radically reworked reviewing process [www.peerageofscience.org]. In the service, the author submits the manuscript to a single peer review process and the reviewed and revised manuscript is offered by PoS for concurrent consideration by any respected journal within the field. PoS features Open Engagement – any qualified, vetted scientists with user account can freely engage to review what they want.
Papercore: Scholar Database based on the wiki Principle
By Alexander K. Hartmann, Eike Bernhard, Thomas Severiens, Eberhard R. Hilf. Published on 19 December 2012 in:
December 2012, Information, News, Open Access, Papercore, Publishing
The Papercore project is an open and free database for all scientists. Based on the wiki principle, Papercore allows scientists to write, store and edit summaries of scientific articles. Through this collective community process should make it possible to summarize large areas of knowledge efficiently.
Papercore was created by the research group "Computational Theoretical Physics" in collaboration with the Institute for Science Networking, both located at the University of Oldenburg, Germany…
AAAS launches 'Science & Diplomacy' online quarterly
News, AAAS, Golden Family Foundation, Magazines, Publishing, Science & Diplomacy
A new online quarterly, Science & Diplomacy, has been launched by the Center for Science Diplomacy of the American Association for the Advancement of Science [AAAS]. The publication, which contains articles, editorials, letters and perspectives, is hoped will strengthen ties between international relations and science by providing a forum for discussion, and a resource, for stakeholders in the two disciplines. In addition, contributions – in the form of submissions or letters – are being encouraged…
Morning on Open Access Gold model
By Martina Knoop. Published on 15 February 2012 in:
News, France, French Physical Society, Institut Henri Poincaré, Open Access, Publishing
A half-day session on the Open Access Gold model was organised on 19 January this year, at the Institut Henri Poincaré, Paris. The meeting, an initiative of the French Physical Society [SFP], was the first step in launching a discussion on the changing business models of French physics publications.
The event opened with an introduction to an innovative business model, SCOAP3, by CERN's Jens Vigen; this was followed by a presentation on the current situation at the European Commission [EC], by the EC Open Access Policy…
How Diet and Exercise Affect Your Stem Cells - Piedmont Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation, P.A.
Studies have shown that those with poor blood sugar control (including diabetics) have fewer stem cells circulating to repair damaged arteries. This means that an excess amount of sugar and refined carbs can damage and decrease the number of healthy stem cells you have. Foods like white bread, pasta, rice and sweet fruits lead to too much insulin production. When this is paired with little inactivity, it can lead to metabolic syndrome (which is a group of factors that raise your risk for heart disease and other health problems). This, in turn, is not a beneficial environment for producing healthy stem cells for harvesting.
Another way that your health affects your stem cells is through calorie intake. In one research publication, mice were tested to see if calorie restriction altered any part of their stem cells. And, as researchers had hoped, muscle stem cells of the mice improved function once they implemented a calorie restriction. Now, this study was done on mice, but it may very well be applicable to humans. This doesn't mean that you have to severely limit your calorie intake, but if you cut back on excess calories in a healthy manner, then you may see an improvement in stem cell activation, production and health for harvesting.
Our last noteworthy point on effective ways to watch your diet for healthy stem cells is eating fresh food. Our world has become increasing reliant on consuming "food-like" products that aren't actually food. Pre-packaged foods can be full of artificial chemicals and additives that simply aren't healthy for you or your stem cells. This includes canned foods and instant meals. Many of these additives have no place in our bodies and aren't easily digested. Research has revealed that these chemicals have the potential to alter the state of healthy stem cells – turning them into cancer cells. The key is to look for foods that took the least amount of steps to get on your plate. The fresher it is, the better it is for your body.
Apart from managing a healthy diet, exercise and staying active are also important components to producing healthy stem cells. Regular exercise has shown to slow down aging and keep the body revitalized. It helps maintain a healthier and larger group of stem cells in several different organs. Not to mention that it helps prevent the risk of heart disease, and other health complications that can also affect your healthy stem cells.
If you plan on receiving a stem cell treatment, be proactive about the procedure. It's good to be knowledgeable about what you can do to make the experience better and more effective. Our recommendation for the month prior to your treatment, is to cut back on excess sugar and refined carbohydrates, limit calories or cut excess calories, eat fresh foods, and exercise daily at a moderate level. You'll be prepping your body to produce the best and most stem cells for your regenerative medicine treatment.
If you would like to know more about our stem cell transplant therapy in Greenville, you can visit this page here, or call us at 864-235-1834 for more information.
Is Day Surgery Right For Your Dog? - Love Your Pet. Take Them to The Vet.
If your dog needs surgery, then your vet will talk to you about whether it can have day surgery or whether it should stay in their animal hospital overnight. In some cases, you might be given a choice of what happens here.
If you prefer the idea of day surgery, but worry about taking your dog home too soon, then ask yourself the following questions. Your answers will help you decide what's best for your pet.
What Kind of Surgery Will Your Pet Have?
If your pet is having major surgery, then it is likely to need at least an overnight stay in your vet's hospital. If surgery puts an animal at risk, and it will need longer-term medical care or monitoring, then you usually shouldn't take it home on the day of its procedure.
However, if your dog is having a routine procedure, such as desexing or dental work, then your vet might recommend day surgery. Vets typically schedule routine surgeries early in the day. This leaves enough time to check and monitor your dog's condition after its anesthesia and surgery. If all is OK, there's no reason to keep your dog overnight.
Has Your Dog Had Surgery Before?
If your dog has had surgery in the past, then you already have an idea of how well it coped. If your pet came through surgery alright and didn't have a problem with its anesthesia, then it will probably have similar experiences with this procedure.
However, if your dog has had post-surgical problems before, then you should talk to your vet about them. Depending on their severity and likelihood of them happening again, your vet might make the decision to keep your dog in their animal hospital overnight.
The general health of your dog might play a part in whether it is a suitable candidate for day surgery. If your pet is fit and healthy, then it probably won't need any extra care.
However, if your dog has underlying health conditions, then you should discuss them with your vet. Some conditions can affect post-surgical recovery. This might affect your decision on when to bring your pet home.
Can You Manage Post-Op Care at Home?
Even if your dog only needs day surgery, it will need some post-operative care at home. You might need to keep your dog calm, feed it special foods, and prevent it from worrying at its wound or stitches. It's best for someone to be at home with your pet for the evening/night after surgery.
If this isn't possible, or if you don't think you can keep your dog in check during this key recovery period, then overnight care night might be a better option.
Pilot Study Published in The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association Finds Targeted Pressure Device Significantly Increased Sleep for Those with Moderate to Severe Symptoms
​Pilot Study Published in The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association Finds Targeted Pressure Device Significantly Increased Sleep for Those with Moderate to Severe Symptoms
CHICAGO—June 27, 2016— Authors from Lake Erie Research Institute in Pennsylvania report an adjustable foot wrap caused to treat restless legs syndrome (RLS) is 1.4 times more effective than the standard pharmaceutical treatment. The pilot study published today in The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association.
The eight-week clinical trial involved 30 otherwise healthy adults with moderate to severe restless leg syndrome. Researchers studied Clinical Global Impression responses as well as the mean change in the International Restless Leg Syndrome Study Group Study Scale (IRLSSGS). A meta-analysis was then used to compare the RLS device with three historic studies of the medication ropinirole and a placebo.
Clinical Global Impression responses indicated significantly greater improvement with the RLS device (90 percent) compared with ropinirole (63 percent), the current standard dopamine therapy for RLS. Additionally, change in IRLSSGS score was significantly greater for the RLS device (17.22) compared to historic reports for ropinirole versus the placebo (12 versus 8.9 respectively). Patients using the RLS device also reported an 82 percent decrease in sleep loss.
The RLS device was designed to put adjustable targeted pressure on two muscles in the foot known to relax symptoms of RLS, the abductor hallucis and the flexor hallucis brevis. Researchers indicate that the pressure produced by the device may also stimulate a dopamine release, similar to massage therapy or acupressure.
“By putting pressure on specific muscles in the feet, we are able to create a response in the brain that relaxes the muscles activated during RLS,” said Phyllis Kuhn, MS, PhD, and the study’s lead author. “It’s a near perfect example of the body regulating itself without drugs, many of which have the potential for significant adverse side effects.”
Restless leg syndrome (RLS) is a neurologic disorder causing unpleasant sensations and an urge to move the legs when at rest. The sleep loss associated with RLS can cause extreme fatigue, anxiety and depression. According to the National Institute of Health, RLS may affect as many as 10 percent of the U.S. population, with more than nine million experiencing moderate to severe symptoms.
Until recently, potent drugs including opioids, depressants and dopamine agonists have been used to ease symptoms, but each of these is accompanied by negative side effects such as dizziness, nausea, vomiting and the added risk of addiction.
“Restless legs syndrome really erodes quality of life because it causes extreme fatigue for many patients. As an osteopathic physician, it’s a challenge to balance the need to restore sleep while preventing additional harm from medication. These results show promise in otherwise healthy individuals for a nonpharmaceutical option that appears to have rather minor, temporary adverse effects for some users,” said Rob Danoff, DO, an osteopathic family physician, and program director of family medicine and combined family medicine and emergency medicine residency programs at Aria Health Care in Philadelphia.
Adverse effects were reported by seven patients in the study. The effects included pain (1), pins and needles sensation (2), irritability (3), spasm (1) and warm feet (1).
Disclosures: Dr Kuhn worked without compensation through Lake Erie Research Institute (LERI) during the 5 years of the study of the device and is now receiving compensation for that work. She reports no financial interest in its sales. None of the other study authors reported any conflict of interest or financial disclosure relevant to the topic of this study. More details are available in the published article.
Participating programs receive application assistance, progress tracking and customer service support.
To help your graduate medical education program achieve ACGME accreditation and osteopathic recognition, the AOA has created the Single Accreditation System Application Assistance Program to answer the most complex questions and individually provide access to expert assistance. The program includes:
Although we cannot write your actual application, we can guide you through every step of the way. The program, which began in May 2016, will continue indefinitely.
