After the two-week trial with the CGM, the families will begin the 12-weeks of either receiving the intervention/OBC or control/standard care. During the 12 weeks, the control group will receive standard care (Table 1) for a child with type 1 diabetes continued by their current medical provider.
Caring for people with depression: How effective and cost-effective is pharmacogenomic testing in BC? | Population Data BC
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Main navigation
About
Privacy
for Researchers
for Data Providers
Initiatives
News
Events
Research in action
my.popdata
Breadcrumb
Home >
News >
Side navigation
ABOUT US
PRIVACY
SERVICES FOR RESEARCHERS
SERVICES FOR DATA PROVIDERS
INITIATIVES
NEWS
EVENTS
RESEARCH IN ACTION
Search
Search
Caring for people with depression: How effective and cost-effective is pharmacogenomic testing in BC?
Thursday, May 12, 2022
In Canada, more than 1-in-10 people will suffer a major form of depression at some point in their lives, and it is common for drug therapy (i.e., antidepressants) to be used. The process of finding a medication that works in relieving symptoms, while also minimizing adverse drug reactions (that can sometimes be severe) is often a process of trial-and-error. This may contribute to high non-adherence rates and, subsequently, to poorer health and long-term prognosis, as well as increased costs.
Data access has been approved for a project aiming to enhance care pathways for people living with depression in BC. To achieve this, a multidisciplinary research team will directly target one of the major treatment challenges: appropriate and effective use of pharmacological therapy.
The project is being co-lead by Professor Stirling Bryan, of the University of British Columbia’s School of Population and Public Health and Centre for Clinical Epidemiology & Evaluation, and Professor Jehannine Austin of UBC’s Departments of Psychiatry and Medical Genetics. Funding for the study comes from Genome BC, Genome Canada and Michael Smith Health Research BC (formerly The Michael Smith Foundation for Health Research).
“An individual’s genetic makeup is thought to partly determine whether particular drugs work and whether there are side effects resulting from the drug. “Pharmacogenomics” testing, that is, seeing if the patient’s genetic makeup is suitable for the particular drug, is a new and promising approach,” says Professor Bryan. “In this study, we want to know if such testing should routinely be used in BC for patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). We want to know how much improved health MDD patients might see, as well as whether the testing is good value for money for the health system.”
The study’s overarching hypothesis is that the use of pharmacogenomics to treat depression will lead to fewer medication changes, faster response to treatment, and decrease the proportion of patients considered treatment-resistant than those who are treated via current practice (i.e. trial-and-error prescribing without pharmacogenomic testing).
The study will use a population-based sample of people who have received specific diagnoses to be able to simulate the several pharmacological policy options available to the different age groups, as well as to mimic the different patterns of utilization of pharmacotherapy between children, youth and adults.
This longitudinal history is important to explore age of onset of MDD. This is because MDD is an episodic disease at onset and the MDD episodes identified within the first data cut may be a recurrent one but in fact, the patient may have had initial episodes decades ago. The average age of onset of MDD is an important input parameter to simulate the life of a patient in a simulation model, and the patient’s progression of the disease, as a result of the natural history of the condition, or as an effect of treatment available/policy changes.
The project will provide tools for evaluating and addressing societal and economic considerations for the implementation of pharmacogenomics tools into clinical practice. The new simulation model of the BC mental health “system” will enable the research team to provide evidence-based recommendations to provincial agencies regarding the appropriateness and implementation of pharmacogenomic tools and their funding from an efficiency perspective. Analysis undertaken using the simulation model will be available to support strategy for incorporating pharmacogenomic tools into existing mental health systems in BC.
PopData will link six data sets from the BC Ministry of Health for the project.
For more information about this project, visit: https://www.spph.ubc.ca/pgx4depression/. An animated ‘explainer’ video for this project is also available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vImqmX2SKqc.
University of British Columbia, 201-2206 East Mall, Vancouver BC V6T 1Z3
Contact us
Sign up for e-news and keep up to date with what's new at PopData, including the latest data updates and upcoming workshops.
In order to fulfil the obligation under the General Data Protection Regulation, this Privacy Policy sets out our commitment to protecting the privacy of your personal information that we collect through this website or directly from you.
Please read the Privacy Policy carefully. Please contact us if you have any questions, via the contact details at the bottom of this page. You providing us with personal information indicates that you have had sufficient opportunity to access the Privacy Policy and that you have read and accept it. You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email from Lisa Evans of Speaking Savvy.
What data do we collect about you, for what purpose and how is it processed.
This includes any communication that you send to us whether it is through the website, through email, text, social media posting or any other communication that you send us. We process this data for the purposes of communicating with you, for record keeping and for the establishment and pursuance or defence of legal claims. Our lawful ground for this processing is our legitimate interests which in this case are to reply to communications sent to us, to keep records and the establish, persue or defend legal claims.
This includes data relating to any purchases of goods and/or services such as your name, title, billing address, delivery address, email address, phone number and your card details. We process this data to supply the goods and/or services you have purchased and to keep records of such transactions. Our lawful ground for this processing is the performance of a contract between you and us and/or taking steps at your request to enter into such a contract.
This includes all data about how you use our website and any online services together with ay data that you post for publication on our website or through other online services. We process this data to operate our website and ensure relevant content is provided to you, to ensure the security of our website, to maintain backup of our website and /or databases and to enable publication and administration of our website, other online services and business. Our lawful ground for this processing is our legitimate interests which in this case are to enable us to properly administer our website and our business.
This includes data about your use of our website/and online services such as your IP address, your login data details about your browser, length of visit to pages on our website page views and navigation paths, details about the number of times you use our website, timezone settings and other technology on the devices you use to access our website. The source of this data is from our analytics tracking system. We process this data to analyse your use of our website and other online services to administer and protect our business and website to deliver relevant website content and advertisements to you and to understand the effeictivenss of our aderitiginsg. Our lawful ground for this processing us our legitimate interests which in this case are to enable us to properly administer our website and our business and to grow our business and to decide our marketing strategy.
This includes data about your preferences in receiving marketing from us and our third parties and your communication preferences. We process this data to deliver relevant website content and advertisements to you and measure or understand the effectiveness of this advertising. Our lawful ground for this processing is our legitimate interests which in this case are to study how customers use our products/services, to develop them, to grow our business and to decide our marketing strategy.
We may use Customer Data, User Data, Technical Data and Marketing Data to deliver relevant website content and advertisements to you (including Facebook adverts or other display advertisements) and to measure or understand the effectiveness of the advertising we serve you. Our lawful ground for this processing is legitimate interests which are to grow our business. We may also use such data to send other marketing communications to you. Our lawful ground for this processing is either consent or legitimate interests to grow our business.
We do not collect any sensitive data about you, this includes data with your details about your race or ethnicity, religious or sexual orientation, health or biometric data or information about criminal convictions and offences.
You can ask us to stop sending your marketing messages at any time by choosing the UNSUBSCRIBE option OR by emailing us at info@speakingsavvy.com.au
If you opt out of receiving marketing communications this opt-out does not apply to personal data provided as a result of the transaction such as purchases.
We have put in place security measures to prevent your personal data from being accidentally lost, used, altered, disclosed or accessed without authorisation. We have procedures in place to deal with any suspected personal data breach and will notify you and any applicable reularo of a a nreach if we are legally required to.
Under data protection laws you have rights in relation to your personal data that include the right to request access corrections erasure, restriction, transfer, to object to processing, to withdraw consent.
If you believe that we have breached the Australian Privacy Principles and wish to make a complaint about that breach, please contact us at the email address listed at the start of the Privacy Policy, setting out details of the breach. We will promptly investigate your complaint and respond to you in writing within four weeks, with what steps we propose to take to remedy the breach and any other action we will take to deal with your complaint.
If you wish to exercise any of the rights set out above, please email us at info@speakingsavvy.com.au
This website may include a link to a third-party website, plugins and applications. Clicking on those links or enabling these connections may allow third parties to collect or share data about you. We don't control these third-party websites and are not responsible for their privacy statements.
You can set your browser to refuse all or some browser cookies or to alert you when websites set or access cookies. If you disable or refuse cookies please note that some parts of this website may become inaccessible or not function properly.
This Privacy Policy may be amended, including changes, additions and deletions, from time to time in our sole discretion. Your continued use of our website following any amendments indicates that you accept the amendments. You should check the Privacy Policy regularly, prior to providing personal information, to ensure you are aware of any changes, and only proceed to provide personal information if you accept the new Privacy Policy.
Identify & Find Tests - BBS 490: Capstone Course - Subject Guides at University of Michigan-Dearborn
Identify, Justify, and Find Assessments, Tests, and Measures
Identify assessments, tests, and measures used in your research area
Justify your assessments, tests, and measures in your research proposal
Find assessments, tests, and measures and determine if you have permissions to access them
APA Handbooks of Testing and Assessment in Psychology
Other Psychology Assessment Resources
Advice from the American Psychological Association
To identify the assessments, tests, and measures that have been used by Psychology researchers in studies related to your research area:
1. Search for your research area in PsycINFO.
2. In the Refine Results sidebar to the right of the list of search hits, click the arrow beside the heading, Tests & Measures.
This opens a list of the tests and measures used to study your research area (with the number of articles using each test in parentheses)
Click on Show More at the bottom of the list to open the full list of tests and measures
Justify Your Choice of Assessments, Tests, and Measures in Your Research Proposal
You can use both PsycINFO and PsycTESTS to find the information you need to justify your choice of tests and measures in your research proposal:
1. In PsycINFO there are two ways to find articles that use your test:
Click the arrow beside the Tests & Measures heading under the Refine Results sidebar beside the list of search hits
click on Show More at the bottom of the list to open the full list of tests
check the box beside your test in the list of search hits under to focus them to research articles which use that test as part of its research design
Use those research articles, and how they were used in your research area, in your proposal as justification for your research design, as well as to find information about administering the test and its reliability and validity
Go to PsycINFO Advanced Search
type the test name in the search box
open the Select a Field drop-down menu beside the search box and choose TM Tests and Measures
all the articles in the list of search hits will be ones that used your test as part of their research studies, so they will have information about administering the test and its reliability and validity
2. In PsycTESTS, search for the name of your test:
Use the information in PsycTESTS about your test as justification for your research design, such as:
citations to articles that discuss the test (under Child Test Records)
how the test has been used (under Description)
restrictions for using the test (under Permissions)
Find Assessments, Tests and Measures
PsycTESTS: To find a specific test, type the test name in the search box. Take a look at this User Guide or this short video for more help and information on using PsycTESTS.
Look at the Permissions listed in the records of tests/scales you find:
If your test has May be Used for Research/Teaching permissions, it is relatively easy to find that test through PsycTESTS. You may also find it appended to articles in PsycINFO or CINAHL.
If your test has Contact Corresponding Author permissions, you will need to contact the author of the test to get a copy of it and permission to use it.
If your test has Contact Publisher permissions, it is a commercial test that needs to be purchased.
You cannot order commercially published Psychology tests and measures through interlibrary loan, since their purchase and use is restricted to licensed professionals.
Contact Dr. Nancy Wrobel, who has a library of commercially published assessments. You may also want to see if you can identify an equivalent assessment that has May be Used for Research/Teaching permissions.
PsycINFO: To find a specific test, type the test name in the search box and choose TM Tests and Measures from the Select a Field drop-down menu beside the search box. Research articles that use tests with May be Used for Research/Teaching permissions may have pdf files of that test appended for download. Take a look at this short video for a demonstration of finding tests in PsycINFO.
CINAHL: To find a specific test, type the test name in the search box and choose the Research Instrument or Questionnaire/Scale limits under Publication Type. Research articles that use tests with May be Used for Research/Teaching permissions may have pdf files of that test appended for download. Take a look at this short video for a demonstration of finding questionnaires and scales in CINAHL and this short video for a demonstration of finding research instruments in CINAHL.
Vol 1: Test theory and testing and assessment in industrial and organizational psychology
Vol 2: Testing and assessment in clinical and counseling psychology (including health psychology)
Vol 3: Testing and assessment in school psychology and education
This 3-volume handbook is a comprehensive review of the theory and application of tests and assessments in Psychology. It begins with an in-depth description of psychometrics. It then provides thorough, up-to-date, comprehensive chapters related to industrial/organizational psychology, clinical psychology (including health psychology), counseling psychology, and educational psychology.
TMdB: Tests and measures available in compilation volumes. Entries include instrument title, author, date, pages located in the compilation volume, and links to information about each compilation volume so you can track it down.
Comprehensive Handbook of Psychological Assessment: 4 volume set, each volume covering a major class of psychological assessment instruments: intelligence/neuropsychological, personality, behavioral, and industrial/organizational.
Mental Measurements Yearbook: supports Psychology test selection with descriptions and critical evaluations of commercially available tests
Measures for Clinical Practice and Research provides copies of hundreds of tests, mostly derived from scholarly journal articles
ETS Test Link lists more than 25,000 tests and measurements on a wide variety of topics. Take a look at this User Guide for more help and information on searching ETS Test Link.
Finding the right tools: What student researchers need to look for when they're choosing a test or measure
Choose your research methods wisely: Experts offer tips on balancing ambition and realism in your research design
"Addiction and Substance Abuse in Nevada" by Andrea Blin
Home > Liberal Arts > SOCIOLOGY > CENTER_DEMOCRATIC_CULTURE > SOCIAL_HEALTH_NEVADA > SOCIAL_HEALTH_NEVADA_REPORTS > 65
Addiction and Substance Abuse in Nevada
Andrea Blin, University of Nevada, Las VegasFollow
Substance abuse is an issue with serious health and societal consequences in Nevada and throughout the nation. In 2016, drug overdoses were responsible for approximately 64,000 deaths in the United States, surpassing motor vehicle deaths by 60 percent (National Institute on Drug Abuse, 2018). Recent attention has been focused on the spike in opioid use and its implications for public health. Nationally, deaths from opioid overdoses increased from 6.1 per 100,000 in 1999 to 19.8 per 100,000 in 2016. Nevada's experience has mirrored national trends, with the drug overdose death rate in the state increasing from 11.5 per 100,000 in 1999 to 21.7 per 100,000 people in 2016 (Trust for America's Heath, 2013; Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 2017b). In comparison, the three states with the highest rate of death due to drug overdose in 2016 were West Virginia (52.0 per 100,000), Ohio (39.1 per 100,000) and New Hampshire (39.0 per 100,000) (Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 2017b).
The three main substances of use in Nevada are alcohol, tobacco and marijuana. The recent crisis in opioid use has overshadowed some of the successes in lowering rates of alcohol and tobacco use both nationally and in the Silver State across age groups. Use of marijuana has stayed relatively consistent since 2008-2009, and the effects of the legalization of recreational marijuana will be seen in future years. Of illicit drug consumption, the most commonly used substance is opioids. Much focus in Nevada has been on opioid use and ways to decrease the number of deaths as a result, but more emphasis needs to be placed on the increase in fentanyl and heroin addiction that has resulted from tighter regulation on the prescribing of opioids.
The criminalization of substance abuse is shown to be ineffective, as it has created a revolving door in the criminal justice system. Evidence-based practice should guide treatment as well as policy development to reduce the negative consequences of substance use and improve the quality of life for Nevada.
Substance abuse in Nevada; Alcohol use; Tobacco use; Cigarette Use; Marijuana use; Illicit drug use; Drug policy
Community-Based Research | Health Policy | Medicine and Health
Andrea Blin. 2017. "Addiction and Substance Abuse in Nevada." In The Social Health of Nevada: Leading Indicators and Quality of Life in the Silver State, edited by Dmitri N. Shalin. Las Vegas, NV: UNLV Center for Democratic Culture, http://cdclv.unlv.edu.
Blin, A. (2017). Addiction and Substance Abuse in Nevada. The Social Health of Nevada: Leading Indicators and Quality of Life in the Silver State 1-45.
Baciguent Opht - Drug Information and Side Effects on Drug3k.com
is it normal 4 a 12 yr. old to feel depress ever if no one died?
im 12 and i gonna be 13 but i feel really lonely i want to die ...
I've had a small hard painless lump in my head for 3 years. The size has not changed. should i be concerned?
Drug Guide B Baciguent Opht
Baciguent Opht
This medication is an antibiotic used to treat certain bacterial eye infections. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria.This medication treats only bacterial eye infections. It will not work for other types of eye infections. Unnecessary use or overuse of any antibiotic can lead to its decreased effectiveness.
Baciguent Opht images:
Throw away the unused portion after treatment is completed.
Do not use it later for another infection.
A different medication may be necessary in that case.
Store at room temperature between 59-86 degrees F (15-30 degrees C) away from heat.
Do not wear contact lenses while you are using this medicine.
Sterilize contact lenses according to manufacturer's directions, and check with your doctor before you begin using them again.To apply eye ointments, wash hands first.
To avoid contamination, be careful not to touch the tube tip or let it touch your eye.
Tilt your head back, look upward, and gently pull down the lower eyelid to make a pouch.
Place a 1/4 to 1/2 inch (0.5 to 1.5 centimeter) strip of ointment into the pouch.
Gently close the eye and roll the eyeball in all directions to spread the medication.
Try not to blink and do not rub the eye.If you are treating an infection of the eyelid, first clean all scales and crusts away from the area before applying the eye ointment on the eyelid.Repeat these steps for your other eye if so directed.
Apply the medication usually 1 to 3 times daily or as directed by your doctor.Wipe the tip of the ointment tube with a clean tissue to remove extra medication before recapping it.If you are using another kind of eye medication (e.g., drops or ointments), wait at least 5 to 10 minutes before applying other medications.
Use eye drops before eye ointments to allow the drops to enter the eye.Use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it.
To help you remember, use it at the same time(s) each day.Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens.
Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects.Tell your doctor immediately if any of these unlikely but serious side effects occur: burning/swelling/redness in or around the eye, increased sweating, dizziness.Tell your doctor immediately if any of these rare but very serious side effects occur: chest tightness, fainting, slow heartbeat.Use of this medication for prolonged or repeated periods may result in a new fungal eye infection.
Do not use this medication for longer than prescribed.
Contact your doctor if you notice new or worsening symptoms.A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare.
Before using bacitracin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to neomycin; or if you have any other allergies.Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history.After you apply this drug, your vision may become temporarily blurred.
Use caution while driving, using machinery, or doing any other activity that requires clear vision.During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed.
Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.It is not known whether this drug passes into breast milk.
Do not start, stop, or change the dosage of any medicine before checking with them first.Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all prescription and nonprescription/herbal products you may use.
Mrsa And Nose And Spread And Rash And Photo - Doctor insights on HealthTap
Mrsa And Nose And Spread And Rash And Photo
Nasal MRSA causes different skin manifeststion, it could be another allergic skin condition, pls consult ur doctor.
It is not clear why you had a swab done in your groin.If you had pustules or weepy lesions, mrsa is a reasonable cause. Once treated, you are unlikely to be a chronic carrier of the same germ.Retesting is not routine.Mrsa is so common now you could easily acquire a new strain within days or weeks.
Mrsa is methicillin resistant staph aureus (not strep) no one actually uses methicillin to treat, but its used as a test to see if staph is resistant to other antibiotics. It is controversial whether staph carriage of staph can be successfully treated. Recent evidence suggests it is useless to try.
Mrsa colonization by itself causes no problems, but puts you at risk for invasive disease if you have major events, like surgery. Mrsa is an aggressive pathogen, so it isn't likely the cause of chronic sore throats or headaches. Unnecessary treatment of MRSA colonization leads to other problems like increased resistance to other antibiotics as well.
These symptoms are nondiagnostic without a thorough history and physical examination by a physician. It is unusual to prescribe steroids for stomach pain and a rash and then get another antibiotic prescribed. Your physician who knows all your findings is best to advise you . I doubt that cancer is the problem,however. Further studies seem warranted.
Sometines:
Many cases with resolve spontaneously over time.
http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid/article/19/4/12-1353_article
Mrsa/hidradenitis supportiva all clear now but finally insu. Approved Mupirocin oit. For my nose twice a day for 5 days. Is this enough to clear MRSA?
MRSA/Hidrad. RX:
ONLY in person evaluations allow that determination for you..
This is asymptomatic and causes no symptoms.
Why does MRSA harbor in the nose yet it is not resp transmitted?
Staphylococcus aureus (in this case methicillin-resistant) is part of our normal bacterial flora. It is not until it gains entry into various areas of our body that it becomes a pathogen. This often occurs with disruption in the skin and mucous membranes. It can, in fact, be respiratorily transmitted under the the proper circumstances. This is a complex subject that cannot be fully addressed here.
Pluristem Pursues Development Strategy In Japan Where New Law Accelerates Path To Market - TheStreet
Sep 16, 2014 3:00 AM EDT
HAIFA, Israel, Sept. 16, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. (Nasdaq:PSTI) (TASE:PLTR), a leading developer of placenta-based cell therapy products, announced today it is evaluating strategic opportunities to co-develop and commercialize its PLacental eXpanded (PLX) cell therapies in Japan.
Recent changes in Japan's laws governing regenerative medicine and the approval of stem cell therapies indicate the country may now offer the fastest track to commercialization in the world for regenerative medicine treatments. As part of Pluristem's strategy in Japan, on September 16, 2014, Company executives presented to a group of Japanese pharmaceutical executives in Tokyo, and conducted a series of one-on-one meetings with Japanese companies exploring a potential partnership with Pluristem.
To support its strategy in Japan, Pluristem is working with The Sage Group, a consulting firm specializing in healthcare industry transactions and business strategy, and Sage's partner Waterfield HealthCom, a Japan-based firm managed by Yoshi Mizuta. Mr. Mizuta is a highly experienced pharmaceutical industry executive with more than 40 years in the business of financial healthcare transactions in the Japanese arena.
Japan's government passed a bill in 2013, which goes into effect in November of this year, effectively fast-tracking the approval of stem cell therapies for marketing. According to the law, stem cell regenerative medicine therapies can receive conditional, time-limited approval for marketing, and be eligible for reimbursement, upon proof of safety but prior to verification of efficacy; safety and effectiveness need to be confirmed after the conditional approval.
Waterfield HealthCom's Mr. Mizuta commented, "With its broad portfolio of indications and its commercial scale 3D cell manufacturing capabilities, Pluristem is a very desirable partner for Japanese pharmaceutical companies looking to bring cell therapies to the market in the near term."
"As a result of Japan's favorable new law, cell therapies like Pluristem's PLX cells can receive market approval in Japan upon completion of Phase II trials when good safety and efficacy data is available. This could potentially reduce approval time down to two or three years," Mr. Mizuta concluded.
Pluristem CEO Zami Aberman added, "The opportunity in Japan opens an accelerated path for the global regenerative medicine industry to prove the efficacy of cell therapies in a broad patient population in Japan. Japan has one of the most advanced healthcare systems, and the second largest healthcare market in the world."
Pluristem currently has co-development and out-licensing partnership agreements with United Therapeutics (Nasdaq:UTHR) and South-Korea-based CHA Bio&Diostech (KOSDAQ:CHA).
Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. is a leading developer of placenta-based cell therapy products. The Company's patented PLX (PLacental eXpanded) cells are a protein delivery platform that releases a cocktail of therapeutic proteins in response to inflammation or ischemia. PLX cells are grown using the Company's proprietary 3D micro-environmental technology and are an "off-the-shelf" product that requires no tissue matching prior to administration.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and federal securities laws. For example, forward-looking statements are used in this press release when we discuss the opportunity in Japan including receiving market approval in Japan for our products upon completion of phase II which could potentially reduce approval time. These forward-looking statements and their implications are based on the current expectations of the management of Pluristem only, and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: changes in technology and market requirements; we may encounter delays or obstacles in launching and/or successfully completing our clinical trials; our products may not be approved by regulatory agencies, our technology may not be validated as we progress further and our methods may not be accepted by the scientific community; we may be unable to retain or attract key employees whose knowledge is essential to the development of our products; unforeseen scientific difficulties may develop with our process; our products may wind up being more expensive than we anticipate; results in the laboratory may not translate to equally good results in real surgical settings; results of preclinical studies may not correlate with the results of human clinical trials; our patents may not be sufficient; our products may harm recipients; changes in legislation; inability to timely develop and introduce new technologies, products and applications; loss of market share and pressure on pricing resulting from competition, which could cause the actual results or performance of Pluristem to differ materially from those contemplated in such forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise required by law, Pluristem undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. For a more detailed description of the risks and uncertainties affecting Pluristem, reference is made to Pluristem's reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT: Pluristem Therapeutics Inc.:         Karine Kleinhaus, MD, MPH         Divisional VP, North America         1-914-512-4109         karinek@pluristem.com
League for Innovation Announces Call for Proposals for Second Annual STEMtech Conference | Halo Movie Online
League for Innovation Announces Call for Proposals for Second Annual STEMtech Conference
by elizabeth January 10, 2011 No Comments
Expanding on its massively effective inaugural STEMtech gathering in 2010, the Association for Development is satisfied to report the Call for Proposition for the second yearly STEMtech meeting being held October 2-5, 2011, at the new JW Marriott in downtown Indianapolis. Instructors, industry pioneers, and others will assemble to talk about expanding understudy accomplishment in science, innovation, designing, and arithmetic (STEM) majors and professions, and to investigate the key utilization of data innovation to better serve their understudies, grounds, and groups.
Recommendations to present are being looked for the accompanying gathering tracks:
* Wellbeing and Science
* Vitality, Environment, and Maintainability
* Arithmetic, Building, and Design
* Assembling, Industry, and Horticulture
* Innovation and Correspondence
* Innovation Frameworks and Applications
* E-Learning Assets
The 2011 STEMtech meeting will likewise give a fantastic scene to organizations to showcase their most recent and most prominent items and administrations to K-16 teachers. A modest bunch of presentation openings are held for Association for Development Corporate Accomplices, who are unequivocally urged to submit recommendations and show at the meeting. Corporate Accomplices additionally have the chance to support different exercises, including the Gathering Program, keynote speakers, gatherings, espresso and refreshment breaks, and the sky is the limit from there.
Recommendations to show at the 2011 STEMtech must be submitted at www.league.org/2011stemtech by April 15, 2011.
The Group for Development is a global association devoted to supporting junior colleges. The Alliance is the main real worldwide association particularly dedicated to enhancing junior colleges through advancement, experimentation, and institutional change. The association has gatherings and foundations, creates web assets, conducts inquire about, produces distributions, gives administrations, and leads ventures and activities with its part schools, corporate accomplices, and different offices in its proceeding with push to have a constructive outcome for understudies and groups.
Sleep Care | AdventHealth DeLand | Formerly Florida Hospital DeLand
Sleep Care in DeLand
Dedicated Sleep Care
To Help You Embrace Your Vitality Again
You've spent enough nights staring at the ceiling. You're ready to rediscover the simple pleasure of a refreshing night's sleep. Guiding you toward better sleep is what we do. At AdventHealth DeLand, formerly Florida Hospital DeLand, we provide expert treatments for sleep disorders of all kinds, including sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and restless legs syndrome (RLS). Your compassionate Sleep Care team, including a dedicated Sleep Navigator, registered technologists, and our onsite medical director, is here to support you. And you can rest even easier knowing our comfortable sleep center in DeLand is accredited by The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals, meaning we can help with every type of sleep disorder. You can rely on us. We're here to facilitate every snore, snooze, and siesta — all to make you feel whole.
Your Dream of Better Sleep Can Come True
Restful Nights and Brighter Days Are Ahead
You just want to sleep through the night. We'll help you get there, but first, we need all the facts. Like any condition, the first step we take to caring for your sleep disorder is providing an accurate diagnosis. A sleep study allows us to monitor your sleep patterns, heartbeat, breathing, and body movements to detect any irregularities.
In some cases, your care team may recommend a home sleep study first. We'll make sure you're empowered with all the support and information you need to use the monitoring equipment with ease. If your sleep study takes place at our sleep center, you'll find a team of polysomnographers, respiratory therapists, and other sleep specialists equipped with advanced diagnostic technology to help you find answers. Our sleep center is open on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday, so you have more options for scheduling your sleep study. To help you feel at home, we welcome you to bring your own robe, pajamas, and even your favorite pillow for your overnight stay in one of our comfortable private rooms.
But no matter where your study takes place, your dedicated Sleep Navigator will be here to guide you from day one. From scheduling your appointments to making sure you have the equipment or medication you need, we do everything we can to make your Sleep Care journey as relaxing as possible.
Care That Nourishes Your Body, Mind and Spirit
A string of sleepless nights can take its toll on you. At AdventHealth DeLand, formerly Florida Hospital DeLand, you'll find advanced treatment options for a range of sleep disorders, like sleep apnea treatments that include continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPap) machines. But we'll also support you in other ways, like recommending healthy lifestyle changes that can help you relax, fall asleep easier, and enjoy more energy throughout the day. Because when you sleep better, you feel better, too.
We know that a sleep disorder diagnosis might leave you feeling a little uncertain. That's why we offer a monthly CPAP support group. This group, which is open to anyone, is a place for friendly discussion and sharing informational resources about sleep disorders. If you'd like to learn more, call us at Call1-386-943-4777.
Find a Multidisciplinary Team That Makes Your Sleep Health a Priority
After a good night's sleep, you want to wake up feeling refreshed and rejuvenated. At AdventHealth DeLand in west Volusia County, our Sleep Care program is about more than helping you catch 40 winks. When you sleep, your body performs a range of tasks to help keep you healthy, like repairing tissues, building muscle, and storing memories.
That's why your sleep care team works closely with experts from many specialties across our network, including neurologists, nutritionists, mental health specialists, and surgeons. We also have a pastoral care team to provide spiritual care. And we'll collaborate to make sure we can help nurture your body and reach the root of your restlessness. Trust your multidisciplinary support team to help you find restorative sleep for peace of mind and brighter days ahead.
