JAX Assistant Professor Jennifer Trowbridge. Photo by Tiffany Laufer.
As we age, we grow more likely to develop cancer. Jennifer Trowbridge wants to know why, specifically, older people are more likely to get acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
"The link between cancer susceptibility and aging is very well established," Trowbridge says. "And in the blood system we grow more susceptible to particular types of blood tumors. We're looking at changes in the stem cells that are responsible for building blood cells but develop cancer cells instead."
The average age of onset of AML is 67, with slightly more men than women getting the disease. Chemotherapy is effective in about two-thirds of patients, but older patients don't respond as well. As with all cancers, the earlier AML is detected, the better the prospective outcome, but today there is no screening test to find AML before symptoms occur, and the symptoms themselves — which include weight loss, fatigue, fever and night sweats — could point to any number of other conditions or diseases.
We're looking at changes in the stem cells that are responsible for building blood cells but develop cancer cells instead.
The Canadian-born Jackson Laboratory associate professor has figured out a way to profile blood tumor cells that offers a powerful new prognostic tool, and is now exploring strategies for targeting AML before it even starts.
Joining JAX for her first faculty position in 2012, following her postdoc at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Children's Hospital in Boston, Trowbridge has already published research in top journals and has captured the attention of several prominent funding organizations. She has earned a New Scholar Award in Aging from The Lawrence Ellison Foundation, a National Cancer Institute Provocative Questions Initiative award, a Maine Cancer Foundation grant and a newly announced V Scholar award from The V Foundation for Cancer Research.
Trowbridge's postdoc mentor was Stuart Orkin, M.D., David G. Nathan Distinguished Professor of Pediatrics and Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator at Harvard Medical School, who is also on the external advisory board of the JAX Cancer Center. "Jen has the uncanny ability to focus on the critical issues and then design her experiments to address them clearly," Orkin says. "Always upbeat and enthusiastic, Jen has always been a terrifically positive person. These traits make for a strong foundation, and have allowed her to transition to her independence smoothly and rapidly, becoming an important faculty member at JAX."
Despite all of her precocious success, Trowbridge didn't start out planning to be a research scientist. Though she enjoyed math and science as a kid, by her senior year at the University of Western Ontario she was on a path to become a genetic counselor. But one lecture on signaling pathways in stem cell biology by a new faculty member sparked a passion for exploring genetic mechanisms.
"The thing I liked about genetic counseling," Trowbridge says, "was the idea of interacting directly with people, and being able to feel like I was making a difference in their lives. But this professor was addressing genetic diseases directly, and showed me a different path to helping people."
Genetics counseling in the genomic eraPatients and physicians rely on genetics counselors to understand the avalanche of new genetic tests and help them make smart medical decisions about what the tests reveal.
Fired up to go to graduate school in immunology and stem cell biology, but with only basic genetics and biochemistry courses under her belt, Trowbridge emailed the lecturing professor, Mick Bhatia, to ask whether he would take her on as a grad student. Bhatia declined but Trowbridge persisted, asking one of her professors to "please talk to him and tell him that I'm smart and I have good hands in the lab and I'll work really hard, and that he should let me be in his lab."
Bhatia, who is now Canada Research Chair in human stem cell biology at McMaster University, agreed to be Trowbridge's mentor. "Having had many graduate students before," Bhatia says, "I suggested directions where techniques and preliminary data were available, so she could continue on a pre-developed track. This, however, was not a regular graduate student.
"A few months after her arrival, Jen would walk into my office and sit on the carpeted floor, where she insisted she was more comfortable. There would start discussions about the conceptual framework of experimentation, how controls for the variables could be designed and what interpretations from the experiments (that I later learned she was already doing) could be drawn out. These starting discussions were clearly the end of my contributions as a supervisor, and I quickly realized I had a stem cell biologist peer."
Bhatia adds, "It's a delight to watch her achieve her goals, although I too often look at my empty carpet floor and miss Dr. Trowbridge."
Trowbridge would, in fact, have made a first-rate genetic counselor. She has a serene, calm demeanor and listens thoughtfully, ignoring the frequent "pink" sounds of incoming emails on her computer. The people in her lab describe her as caring and supportive. She's also a family woman who — with her husband Mike Kiers, a nurse at the local hospital and, like Trowbridge, tall and athletic — has two young sons and is expecting a daughter in the spring.
Like most principal investigators, Trowbridge has to spend most of her time at her computer, writing grant proposals and drafting research papers. This morning she has carved out time in her lab to meet with her small staff for a progress check on the quest to understand what goes wrong in AML.
All blood cells start from a common origin, hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). HSCs in turn produce more specific progenitor cell types, each of which are responsible for producing various kinds of blood cells: red, white (including myeloid cells) and platelets.
Over the years, the stem cell compartment in the bone marrow expands, but that's not good news: Some of the stem cells it cranks out don't function properly and instead produce more of the myeloid cell types, which increases the chance of these cells becoming cancerous.
This approach is kind of another dimension. It's an incredibly precise tool for looking at the big picture of a cancer.
Data from AML patients show that the stage of a progenitor cell when it becomes transformed to leukemia has an impact on its clinical progression, with earlier-stage cell of origin cancers being more aggressive. But how can you triage the different kinds of cells to determine the cells of origin?
In what could be described as a conceptual discovery, Trowbridge found a framework to sort out and evaluate tumor cells: their open chromatin profiles.
Chromatin is the material in the cell's nucleus that condenses to form chromosomes during cell division. Just as every species of tree produces leaves of a certain shape, every type of cell has a characteristic chromatin profile: a distinctive combination of closed (tightly wound and relatively inactive) and open (looser and more active) chromatin.
"We realized we could analyze open chromatin in bulk tumor cells," Trowbridge says, "to determine what kind of cell the tumor had developed from. That cell-type specificity of chromatin structure provides a major clue for diagnosis and treatment."
Working with a mouse model of AML, the Trowbridge lab began with five distinct, normal cell types found in bone marrow: long-term HSCs, short-term HSCs, multipotent progenitors, common myeloid progenitors and granulocyte macrophage progenitors. The AML that developed from these different cells of origin had varying levels of aggressiveness when engrafted in mice, with the stem cell-derived lines being the most aggressive.
To profile the open chromatin in these distinct AML samples, and compare them to open chromatin patterns in normal cells, Trowbridge collaborated with Duygu Ucar, Ph.D., a JAX assistant professor who develops computational models to study gene regulation including chromatin structure. Together they identified open chromatin signatures and gene expression patterns in AML samples that enabled them to distinguish the more aggressive, stem-cell-derived AML.
"This approach is kind of another dimension," Trowbridge says. "It's an incredibly precise tool for looking at the big picture of a cancer. It reveals what's happening in terms of how the cancer cells are behaving, where they've come from, what they've been exposed to and, potentially, what's going to be effective to treat them."
Ucar describes Trowbridge as "a dream collaborator" for a computational scientist. "It's a great pleasure to work with her. She generates top-quality data and asks very smart research questions."
Back in her office, Trowbridge reflects on the struggles inherent in being a principal investigator in today's complex research environment, which she describes as finding a balance between positivity and realism.
"I've learned that it's okay to have to lean on somebody else, to ask somebody for help, to collaborate with somebody because you can't get this particular technique to work and they're an expert in it. Working with Duygu is a perfect example of this."
By the same token, she says, "The hardest lesson that I have had to learn is to know when to cut a project, because it's not going as well as you had hoped and you're just sinking a lot of resources and time into it. Ultimately it does better justice to the process and to science to be able to make those difficult decisions."
Exploring the science of agingJAX computational scientist Duygu Ucar bridges the worlds of biology and computer science to unlock the secrets of aging and age-related disease.
The treatment of non-malarial febrile illness in Papua New Guinea: findings from cross sectional and longitudinal studies of health worker practice | BMC Health Services Research | Full Text
The treatment of non-malarial febrile illness in Papua New Guinea: findings from cross sectional and longitudinal studies of health worker practice
Olga P. M. Saweri1,
Ivo Mueller4,5,
Peter M. Siba1 &
Justin Pulford ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0003-4756-84801,6
BMC Health Services Research volume 17, Article number: 10 (2017) Cite this article
The Papua New Guinea Department of Health recently shifted from a presumptive to a 'test and treat' malaria case management policy. This shift was supported by the widespread introduction of malaria rapid diagnostic tests in health facilities across the country. Health workers received training and job-aids detailing how to conduct and interpret a malaria rapid diagnostic test and how to treat test positive cases; however, little instruction on treating non-malaria febrile cases was provided. Accordingly, this study examined health worker case management of non-malarial febrile patients in the 12-month period immediately following the introduction of the revised malaria case management policy.
Data were collected from a country-wide cross-sectional survey of febrile case management at randomly selected health facilities and from longitudinal surveillance at sentinel health facilities. Analysis was restricted to febrile patients who tested negative for malaria infection by rapid diagnostic test (N=303 and 5705 outpatients, respectively).
96.8% of non-malarial febrile patients received a diagnosis in the longitudinal sample, compared to 52.4% of the cross-sectional sample. Respiratory tract infections were the most commonly reported diagnoses. Over 90% of patients in both samples were prescribed one or more medications, most commonly an analgesic (71.3 & 72.9% of the longitudinal and cross-sectional samples, respectively), some form of antibiotic (72.7 & 73.4%, respectively) and/or an anthelminthic (17.9 & 16.5%, respectively). Prescribing behaviour was adherent with the recommendations in the standard treatment guidelines in fewer than 20% of cases (longitudinal sample only).
Many non-malarial febrile patients are not provided with a diagnosis. When diagnoses are provided they are typically some form of respiratory tract infection. Antibiotics and analgesics are widely prescribed, although medications prescribed rarely adhere to the Papua New Guinea standard treatment guidelines. These findings indicate that Papua New Guinea health workers require support for non-malarial febrile illness case management.
The last 5 to 10 years has seen a substantial increase in the availability and use of malaria Rapid Diagnostic Tests (mRDTs) in many parts of the world [1]. Consistent with these global trends, Papua New Guinea (PNG) with support from a Round 8 Global Fund grant has procured over three million mRDTs since 2010 [2]. This supports a revised national malaria treatment policy (NMTP) stipulating that all fever or suspected malaria cases be tested for malaria infection by microscopy or mRDT [3]. Internationally, the scale-up of mRDT availability has often led to substantial reductions in antimalarial prescription as health workers shift from a presumptive to a 'test and treat' malaria case management approach [4–6]. There is some evidence to suggest a similar change in health worker practice is occurring in PNG. A recent study found that antimalarial prescriptions to febrile patients declined from 96.4% of cases before the introduction of the test and treat policy to 39.0% in the 12-month period immediately post-implementation [7]. The availability of mRDTs increased from 8.9% of surveyed facilities to 53.4% across the same time period.
Whilst mRDTs can confirm or rule out malaria infection, they provide no support to health workers for diagnosing and treating non-malarial fevers. Fever is an unspecific syndrome and diagnostic tools to assist in the accurate identification of its aetiology in mRDT negative patients are scarce in resource-poor settings [8]. The historic practice of presumptive malaria diagnosis may further undermine the quality of non-malarial febrile case management as the health workforce has little acquired experience in the clinical diagnosis and treatment of non-malarial febrile patients [9]. Many febrile patients attending PNG health facilities test negative for malaria infection and the malaria burden is declining in the general population [10, 11]. Thus, the health workforce is increasingly, and quite suddenly, required to respond to febrile illnesses shown to be non-malarial in origin via mRDT.
A health worker training program was carried out in PNG pre-implementation of the new NMTP. This program provided detailed instruction on mRDT use and strongly emphasised the importance of restricting antimalarial prescription to test-confirmed cases [12]. Nevertheless, the training program provided relatively little detail on non-malarial febrile case management beyond reference to an Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) flowchart. No instruction on the management of non-malarial febrile illness in adolescent or adult patients was provided. The PNG National Department of Health and the Paediatric Society of PNG issues standard treatment guidelines which outline recommended management of a range of common illnesses, including non-malarial febrile illness [13, 14]. Apart from these reference manuals, no other training, resources or support have been specifically provided to assist the PNG healthcare workforce manage the increasing number of non-malarial febrile illness cases identified in the context of the new NMTP. Accurate diagnosis of non-malarial febrile illness is further comprised by the absence of on-site laboratory support at most primary health care facilities in PNG [15]. The general lack of curative treatments for most viral febrile illnesses may be an additional obstacle to implementing accurate evidence-based treatment.
This paper examines how the PNG primary healthcare workforce diagnosed and treated non-malarial febrile patients in the period immediately following the widespread introduction of mRDTs. The primary research questions included: what percentage of non-malarial febrile patients are provided a recorded diagnosis? What diagnoses are being recorded? What medications are being prescribed? And to what extent do the medications prescribed adhere with national standard treatment guidelines?
This paper presents selected data from a multifacted evaluation of the PNG National Malaria Control Program (NMCP), 2009–2014. A full description of the NMCP evaluation is available elsewhere [16]. Reported data were obtained from longitudinal, outpatient surveillance in seven sentinel health facilities and a cross sectional survey completed in 36 randomly selected health facilities across the country. The longitudinal dataset provided a large number of febrile cases, although the respective case management of these patients was provided by a relatively small number of health workers working within a quasi-research environment. The cross sectional dataset provided fewer clinical cases, but these cases were clinically managed by a greater number of health workers from across a greater number of health facilities in a routine clinical environment. The datasets are considered complementary as, together, they provide clinical case management records pertaining to non-malaria febrile illness for over 6000 patients from 43 health facilities.
Outpatient surveillance was variously initiated in seven sentinel primary health care facilities across PNG between January 2010 and July 2011. The primary aim of the surveillance was to assess trends in malaria morbidity. The seven facilities were purposively selected from a sampling frame of operational public-sector health centres provided by the PNG Department of Health according to their accessibility, their functionality, their geographical spread and the local malaria epidemiology and were located in Balimo (Western province), East Cape (Milne Bay province), Karimui (Chimbu province), Sausi (Madang province), Dreikikir (East Sepik province), Lemakot (New Ireland province) and Arawa (Autonomous Region of Bougainville). For the purpose of this paper, focus is placed on data collected in the calendar year 2012 as the revised NMTP was implemented in November, 2011.
Daily surveillance was carried out at each health facility during regular opening hours (Monday to Friday, 7.45 am-4.06 pm). Outpatients presenting with fever or a history of fever, in the past 3 days, were referred to a study nurse who then completed an mRDT, prepared a thick and thin blood smear on a microscopy slide and measured haemoglobin (Hb) level using a Hemocue Hb 201+ analyser (HemoCue AB, Ängelholm, Sweden). Demographic details of the patient were recorded in a one-page case report form alongside clinical signs and symptoms, previous health facility attendance and drug intake, axillary temperature, weight and results of the mRDT and Hb measurement. The patient was then transferred to a member of the respective facility's health work force for further examination, diagnosis and treatment following routine procedures. The resulting diagnosis and any prescription by the health worker were recorded on the case report form. Oral informed consent was obtained from all patients prior to participation.
The sample consisted of primary health care facilities randomly selected as part of a countrywide cross sectional health facility survey in which at least one instance of febrile case management has been observed by a member of the research team. The sampling frame consisted of all primary health care facilities operational at the time of the survey. Health facilities were stratified by province and selected using a simple random sampling procedure. Sample size was determined by logistical considerations.
The survey was carried out between June and November 2012. Research officers spent between 1 to 5 days at each participating health facility (depending on size). Up to four different survey instruments were completed at each health facility, although this paper only reports data obtained from the non-participant observation of febrile case management (described below). Oral informed consent was sought from the officer in charge at all participating health facilities and from all participating clinicians and patients prior to clinical observation. More details of the general survey methodology have been published elsewhere [7].
A structured checklist was designed to record observed features of the clinical case management of patients presenting with fever or a recent history of fever. The instrument was divided into discrete sections including consultation and diagnosis, prescription and treatment counseling. The content of each section was informed with input from experienced medical- and medical research- professionals. The instrument was completed by a trained research officer who would passively observe the management of fever patients from the point of initial contact with a health professional until service exit or admission onto a treatment ward. During the course of this observation, the research officer recorded on the structured clinical observation instrument whether specified actions did or did not occur and recorded the content of specific actions (e.g., whether an mRDT was conducted and, if yes, the outcome). Eligible patients were identified upon first contact with a health worker or, if circumstances allowed, by screening in the waiting area prior to first contact with a health worker.
All data were double entered into DMSys version 5.1 (Sigma Soft International). Stata versions 11/IC and 12/SE were used for descriptive data analysis and to assess health worker adherence to prescription guidelines. The analysis of health worker adherence to prescription guidelines was limited to the ten most frequently recorded diagnoses and to patients with a single recorded diagnosis. Patients with multiple diagnoses were not included as it was not possible to determine which medications were prescribed for which diagnosis. To be rated 'adherent' the medications prescribed were required to be consistent with those listed against the specified diagnosis in either the Papua New Guinea Standard Treatment Guidelines for Adults [14] or Children [13], as listed in Table 1. A rating of 'partially adherent' was given when at least one (but not all) of the listed medications for the specified diagnosis were prescribed or the same class of medication was prescribed, but not the recommended drug. A rating of 'non-adherent' was given when the medication/s prescribed was/were neither the recommended drug nor the same class of medication as stated in the aforementioned manuals. The analysis of health worker adherence to prescription guidelines did not account for drug dosages and was not applied to the CS sample due to the large number of cases without a recorded diagnosis. Between-group differences in the mean number of medications prescribed and type of prescription were examined by two-tailed t-tests and chi-square, respectively, in the CS sample.
Table 1 Recommended medications for specified diagnoses according to the Papua New Guinea Standard Treatment Guidelines for Adults and Children
A total of 5705 patients with fever or recent experience of fever tested negative for malaria by mRDT across the seven sentinel sites in 2012. Of these patients, 50.9% were female, 42.3% were <5 years of age, 18.7% were between 5 and 15 years of age and 39.0% were 16 years of age or older.
A diagnosis was recorded for 96.8% (5521/5705) of the outpatient surveillance (OS) sample. Of outpatients with a recorded diagnosis, 88.9% (4906/5521) had one recorded diagnosis and 11.1% (615/5521) had two or more. Overall, a total of 6152 diagnoses were recorded of which 87.6% (5391/6152) appear in the Papua New Guinea Standard Treatment Guidelines for Adults [14] or Children [13]. A full list of the recorded diagnoses is available in Additional file 1. The ten most frequently recorded diagnoses, accounting for 72.6% (4469/6152) of all diagnoses, included: Pneumonia (n = 824), Cough (n = 790), Respiratory Tract Infection (n = 613), Malaria (n = 510), Anaemia (n = 452), Fever of Unknown Origin (n = 399), Otitis Media (n = 286), Diarrhoea (n = 274), Flu (n = 233) and Worms (n = 88).
All participants included in the OS sample were tested for malaria and anaemia using diagnostic tests. These were the only two diagnostic test results routinely recorded that allow the accuracy of the respective diagnosis to be assessed. By definition, all participants included in the OS sample tested negative for malaria infection by mRDT; however, 8.9% (510/5705) were given a recorded diagnosis of malaria all of which would be considered incorrect according to mRDT result assuming absence of signs of severe malarial disease (7/510 malaria diagnose were recorded as 'severe malaria'). Anaemia was defined, by the Papua New Guinea Standard Treatment Guidelines, as any patient presenting with Hb less than 10 g/dL. A Hb level lower than 5 g/dL indicates severe anaemia. Overall, 27.4% (1561/5705) of the OS sample tested positive for either moderate (n = 1481) or severe anaemia (n = 80). Of these 1561 patients, 24.9% were formally diagnosed with anaemia.
Ninety-six point five percent (5508/5705) of the OS sample were prescribed one or more medications, the number, percentage and type of which are depicted in Table 2. The mean number of medications prescribed (analysis restricted to patients prescribed at least one medicine) was 1.8 (Median 1; IQR 1–2). Overall, antibiotics were the most commonly prescribed medication (72.7%), followed by analgesics (71.3%) and anthelminthics (17.9%). One or more antimalarial medications were prescribed to 13.2% (753/5705) of the OS sample, the most common of which were sulphadoxine/pyrimethamine (SP) (8.1%), chloroquine (4.2%) and amodiaquine (3.6%). 58.6% (441/753) of these patients received some form of antimalarial combination, the most common of which were SP plus chloroquine (21.1%), and SP plus amodiaquine (19.1%). Artemether monotherapies were prescribed in 2.9% (22/753) of cases.
Table 2 Number, percent and type of prescribed medications by survey type
Health worker adherence to prescription guidelines
As shown in Table 3, a total of 3249 patients met the inclusion criteria for this analysis of whom 16.6% received a prescription in adherence with the standard treatment guidelines for their respective diagnosis. The majority of prescriptions (56.3%) were rated 'partially adherent', 21.8% 'non-adherent' and a rating was unable to be made in 5.4% of cases.
Table 3 Health worker adherence to prescription guidelines relative to recorded diagnosis
Table 4, drawing on the same sample as presented in Table 3 and further limited to those patients for whom it was possible to provide an 'adherence' rating (n = 3075), presents the percentage of participants for whom: according to the respective prescription protocols in the PNG standard treatment guidelines, (1) should have been prescribed an antibiotic and were not (under prescription); and (2) should not have been provided an antibiotic and were (over prescription). As shown, 18.7% of patients in the five diagnostic categories in which an antibiotic should have been prescribed did not receive an antibiotic. Conversely, 41.0% of patients in the five diagnostic categories in which an antibiotic should not have been prescribed did receive an antibiotic.
Table 4 Antibiotic prescription relative to diagnosis, according to Papua New Guinea Standard Treatment Guidelines
A total of 303 febrile patients tested negative for malaria by mRDT or microscopy. Of these patients, 50.8% were female, 47.9% were <5 years of age, 19.5% were between 5 and 15 years of age and 32.7% were 16 years of age or older. These patients were collectively observed across 36 health facilities in 17 provinces.
A diagnosis was only sought for mRDT negative patients not prescribed an antimalarial (n = 246) as those prescribed antimalarials (n = 57) were assumed to have been diagnosed with malaria despite the mRDT result. Of these 246 patients, a diagnosis was recorded in 52.4% of cases. The specified diagnoses indicated some form of respiratory tract infection (n = 80), general body aches or headache (n = 28), fever (n = 11), diarrhoea (n = 9), ear infection (n = 7), shortness of breath (n = 7), sore mouth/throat (n = 5), influenza (n = 4), viral infection (n = 3), malaise (n = 3), vomiting (n = 2), food poisoning (n = 2) and one each of measles, tuberculosis, anaemia, gastroenteritis, swelling, bleeding eye, pregnancy and hypertension.
Of the 117 mRDT negative patients without a recorded diagnosis (or prescribed antimalarials), 94.0% (110/117) were prescribed some form of medication suggesting the health worker formed a clinical opinion as to the cause of the febrile illness even if this opinion was not formally recorded or reported to the patient.
97.0% (294/303) of the CS sample were prescribed one or more medications, the number, percentage and type of which are listed in Table 2. The mean number of medications prescribed (analysis restricted to patients prescribed at least one medicine) was 2.1 (Median 2; IQR 2–3). Overall, antibiotics were the most commonly prescribed medication (73.4%) followed by analgesics (72.9%). One or more antimalarial medications were prescribed to 18.8% (57/303) of the CS sample despite the negative mRDT result. The most commonly prescribed antimalarials were SP (13.9%), amodiaquine (6.9%) and chloroquine (6.6%). The recommended first line medication for uncomplicated malaria, artemether-lumefantrine, was prescribed in 1.0% (3/303) of cases. 13.9% (42/303) of these patients received some form of antimalarial combination, the most common of which were chloroquine plus SP (6.6%), amodiaquine plus SP (5.0%) and artemether/artesunate plus SP (1.7%). Artemether monotherapies were prescribed in less than 1.0% (2/303) of cases.
Excluding patients prescribed an antimalarial (for whom diagnostic information was not sought), there was no statistically significant difference in the mean number of medications prescribed to mRDT negative patients with a recorded diagnosis as compared to those without a recorded diagnosis (2.0 vs. 1.9; t = −0.3, p = 0.76). Furthermore, mRDT negative patients not provided a diagnosis were as likely to receive an antibiotic (75.9% vs. 73.1%; χ 2 = 0.7, p = 0.42) or analgesic (71.6% vs. 76.2%; χ 2 = 0.7, p = 0.41) as those with a recorded diagnosis suggesting prescribing behaviour was similar irrespective of whether a formal diagnosis was recorded or not.
This paper presents data pertaining to the clinical case management of non-malarial febrile patients in the 12-month period immediately following the discontinuation of a treatment protocol in which most febrile patients were presumptively treated with antimalarials. Data were derived from longitudinal surveillance in seven outpatient sentinel health facilities and from a cross sectional survey in 36 health centres across 17 provinces in PNG.
Findings from the OS sample indicate that the vast majority of non-malarial febrile patients had a formal diagnosis recorded, in the CS sample this was little more than 50%. As the latter comprised a greater number of health workers, and as these health workers were not prompted to provide a diagnosis (as was the case in the OS sample), then the CS percentage may be the more accurate reflection of standard practice. Respiratory tract infections, often pneumonia, were the most common diagnosis provided across both datasets. Diagnoses of diarrhoea and general body aches were also prominent across samples, although at a substantially lower frequency. Respiratory tract infections and diarrhoea have historically been reported at a high frequency on the PNG National Health Information System [17] and are ranked highly in PNG burden of disease estimates [18]. Thus, the specified diagnoses of non-malarial febrile illness are largely consistent with existing data sources.
It was not possible to determine whether the recorded diagnoses were accurate or not in the context of this study, with the exception of malaria and anaemia. However, the small number of studies that have examined the aetiology of non-malarial febrile illness in PNG have identified dengue as a cause in approximately 10% of cases [19, 20] and a chikungunya virus outbreak was detected in PNG at the time the reported data were collected [21, 22]. A recent review of non-malarial febrile illness in the neighbouring South East Asia region further identified dengue, typhus and Leptospira spp. as the most commonly reported pathogens across 146 studies meeting the inclusion criteria [23]. As neither dengue, chikungunya, typhus or leptospira spp. were diagnosed in a single case in either sample, as malaria was diagnosed in between 8.9 to 18.8% of mRDT-negative cases and as anaemia was substantially underdiagnosed despite the availability of a Hb-measurement in the OS sample, there is reason to question the accuracy of recorded diagnoses. The limited diagnostic/laboratory support available in primary health care facilities in PNG restricts the degree to which health workers can investigate the causes of febrile illnesses and may consequently influence the accuracy of diagnoses provided. The threat of misdiagnosis may, therefore, be considered a result of limitations in the broader healthcare system rather than health worker ability per se.
Prescription patterns were consistent across datasets. Over 90% of patients in both the OS and CS sample were prescribed one or more medications, most commonly some form of antibiotic, analgesic and/or anthelminthic. Antimalarials were provided in 18.8 and 13.2% of OS and CS cases, respectively, despite the negative mRDT result. This rate of antimalarial prescription to mRDT negative patients is lower than that reported in other settings [24–26] and represents a substantial reduction in the rate of antimalarial prescription to febrile patients compared to the practice observed prior to the change in treatment protocol [27]. Thus, while not fully compliant with the revised protocol, PNG health workers have seemingly made radical and appropriate adjustments to their antimalarial prescription practices in a relatively brief time frame and perhaps at a faster rate than their international peers in similar circumstances.
The adherence analysis indicated that the prescription provided was consistent with that recommended in the respective PNG standard treatment manual for the specified diagnosis in fewer than 20% of cases (OS sample only). The majority of prescriptions (56.3%) were rated 'partially adherent', indicating that at least one, but not all, of the recommended medications was provided or the correct class of medication was provided, but not the recommended drug. It was not possible to determine what influence the availability of the respective medications played in this outcome. This result, therefore, most likely reflects limitations in both medication availability and health worker practice, yet it remains the case that the medications provided were rarely in full accordance with those recommended for the diagnoses given. A previous study, not restricted to mRDT negative cases, reported 'appropriate' prescription rates (based on diagnosis) of between 62.1–69.6% in two secondary care settings and an outpatient facility in PNG [28]. Thus, the relatively poor adherence to prescription guidelines reported in this study suggests that PNG health workers may be less likely to provide a recommended prescription when treating non-malarial febrile illness patients. However, in the absence of an expert reference diagnosis in the context of this study, the extent and consequences of any potential misdiagnosis and non-recommended prescription cannot be judged.
Previous studies have reported similar rates of antibiotic prescription to mRDT negative patients as reported here, from 61.4% in Uganda [29] to 78% in Tanzania [30]. Accordingly, the rates may be considered somewhat normative in a low income country setting in which a shift from presumptive to parasitological confirmed malaria diagnosis has recently taken place. Nevertheless, the rate of antibiotic prescription is high and raises the possibility that primary health care workers in PNG may be substituting antimalarial medication with antibiotic medication in response to the revised NMTP, as has been previously suggested [6, 9]. The potential over-prescription of antibiotics cannot be reliably established in the absence of an expert reference diagnosis including, in some instances, additional diagnostic testing; nevertheless, a recent study reported unnecessary antibiotic prescription in 29% of 6969 observed illness episodes in outpatient health services in PNG [31] which is somewhat consistent with the rate of antibiotic over prescription (41%) reported herein. Furthermore, an analysis of medication prescription to malaria mRDT positive patients in the CS survey [7] found that out of 54 mRDT positive patients, 98.2% were prescribed an antimalarial, yet only 14.8% were prescribed an antibiotic. This would indicate that health workers are selectively (and often unnecessarily) prescribing antibiotics to mRDT negative cases as opposed to routinely providing them to all febrile patients.
This study was not without limitation. Firstly, the fact that (to a large extent) the accuracy of the reported diagnoses was not able to be assessed in either the OS or CS sample remains an important knowledge gap. Whilst assessing the accuracy of non-malarial febrile illness was not an aim of the study, without this essential information it is difficult to reliably assess the quality of health worker practice. A further limitation is that the study did not take into consideration medication supplies at the respective health facilities in either survey. The supply of anti-malarial drugs or other medications could have an implied effect on the prescribing behaviour of health workers [32]. In addition, health workers in the OS sample were required to complete a diagnosis and medication section on a research-specific case report form which is not reflective of normal practice and health workers in the CS sample were actively observed during their respective febrile case consultations by a member of a research team. This, too, may have influenced health worker practice. The health workers in both surveys were predominantly nurses and community health workers. Therefore, the conclusions drawn concerning health worker behaviour are not a complete depiction of all health worker cadres in PNG.
The respective datasets also had their inherent weaknesses. The OS analyses were based on a large number of patient cases, yet they had been collectively treated by a relatively small number of health workers. Conversely, the CS analyses were based on a smaller number of patients, yet they had been treated by a larger number of health workers from a more diverse array of health facilities. Triangulating findings from the two datasets, as was done here, overcomes their respective limitations in part. Despite these limitations, the collective sample size of both patients and health workers, the relatively robust sampling and study protocols, the geographical spread of participating health centres and the general agreement between the two datasets with respect to reported diagnosis and prescription practice suggests the reported findings could reasonably be generalised to health centres across PNG.
The findings indicate health workers predominantly adhere to mRDT negative results, determine alternative diagnoses in most cases and provide medications other than antimalarials. However, the findings further suggest that a large proportion of non-malarial febrile patients are not being provided a diagnosis, the diagnoses that are given may not necessarily be accurate, the medications prescribed rarely fully adhere to those recommended for the specified diagnosis and that antibiotics are likely to be overprescribed. All of these factors strongly indicate a need for intensive and continuing health worker support in the diagnosis and management of non-malarial fevers and for thorough scientific investigation and reporting on the aetiology of non-malarial fevers across the various regions of PNG.
Interventions based on training and/or the provision of rapid diagnostic tests have demonstrably improved non-malarial febrile case management [33], and interventions proven successful in improving malaria case management, such as text message reminders [34], would seemingly be easily transferable. General health systems strengthening in low income country contexts such as PNG is equally essential to sustained improvement in health worker performance [35]. As multiple support and supervisory mechanism are typically required to improve health worker practice [36], strengthening non-malarial febrile case management in primary health care contexts in PNG will likely require a package of health worker and health system strengthening interventions, variously focusing on: further reducing antimalarial prescription to malaria mRDT negative patients; encouraging formal diagnosis and the use of clinical and available laboratory resources to inform diagnosis; rational use of antibiotics; and adherence to recommended treatment guidelines when a diagnosis is made.
NMTP:
National Malaria Treatment Protocol
Outpatient longitudinal surveillance
Zhao J, Lama M, Korenromp E, Aylward P, Shargie E, Filler S, et al. Adoption of rapid diagnostic tests for the diagnosis of malaria, a preliminary analysis of the Global Fund program data, 2005 to 2010. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e43549. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0043549. PubMed PMID: 22952703, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3428362.
The Global Fund. Malaria Control in Papua New Guinea: Scaling up for Impact 2010 [cited 2013 16/08/2013]. Available from: http://portfolio.theglobalfund.org/en/Grant/Index/PNG-809-G04-M.
Papua New Guinea National Department of Health. National Malaria Treatment Protocol. Port Moresby: 2009.
Yukich JO, Bennett A, Albertini A, Incardona S, Moonga H, Chisha Z, et al. Reductions in artemisinin-based combination therapy consumption after the nationwide scale up of routine malaria rapid diagnostic testing in Zambia. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2012;87(3):437–46. doi:10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0127. PubMed PMID: 22848096, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3435345.
Thiam S, Thior M, Faye B, Ndiop M, Diouf ML, Diouf MB, et al. Major reduction in anti-malarial drug consumption in Senegal after nation-wide introduction of malaria rapid diagnostic tests. PLoS One. 2011;6(4):e18419. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018419. PubMed PMID: 21494674, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3071817.
Bruxvoort K, Kalolella A, Nchimbi H, Festo C, Taylor M, Thomson R, et al. Getting antimalarials on target: impact of national roll-out of malaria rapid diagnostic tests on health facility treatment in three regions of Tanzania. Trop Med Int Health. 2013. doi:10.1111/tmi.12168.
Pulford J, Kurumop S, Ura Y, Siba P, Mueller I, Hetzel MW. Malaria case management in Papua New Guinea following the introduction of a revised treatment protocol. Malar J. 2013;12:433.
Chappuis F, Alirol E, d'Acremont V, Bottieau E, Yansouni CP. Rapid diagnostic tests for non-malarial febrile illness in the tropics. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2013;19(5):422–31. doi:10.1111/1469-0691.12154.
Baiden F, Webster J, Owusu-Agyei S, Chandramohan D. Would rational use of antibiotics be compromised in the era of test-based management of malaria? Trop Med Int Health. 2011;16(2):142–4. doi:10.1111/j.1365-3156.2010.02692.x.
World Health Organisation. World malaria report 2014. Geneva: World Health Organisation; 2014.
Hetzel MW, Paul S, Benjamin L, Makita L, Mueller I, Siba PM. Proportion of fevers attributable to malaria varies significantly between sites in Papua New Guinea. P N G Med J. 2014;57(1–4):39–51.
National Competency Training Project. Malaria diagnosis and the New treatment protocol: a training manual for health workers in Papua New Guinea. Port Moresby: Birdwing Publishing; 2010.
Paediatric Society of Papua New Guinea. Standard treatment for common illnesses of children in Papua New guinea: manual for nurses, community health workers, health extension officers and doctors. 9th ed. Port Moresby: Paediatric Society of Papua New Guinea; 2011.
National Department of Health. Standard treatment guidelines for common illness of adults in Papua New guinea: a manual for nurses, health extension officers and doctors. 6th ed. Port Moresby: National Department of Health; 2012.
IMRG. Papua New Guinea Independent Monitoring Review Group (Health). Report No. 4. Port Moresby: Independent Monitoring Review Group; 2008.
Hetzel MW, Pulford J, Maraga S, Barnedas C, Reimer L, Tavul L, et al. Evaluation of the global fund-supported national malaria control program in Papua New Guinea, 2009–2014. P N G Med J. 2014;57(1–4):7–29.
PNG National Department of Health. Health sector review, 2001–2009. Port Moresby: National Department of Health; 2009.
Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. GBD Profile: Papua New Guinea Seattle: Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation; 2010 [cited 2015 07/07/2015]. Available from: http://www.healthdata.org/sites/default/files/files/country_profiles/GBD/ihme_gbd_country_report_papua_new_guinea.pdf.
Bande G, Hetzel MW, Iga J, Barnadas C, Mueller I, Siba P, et al. An investigation into febrile illnesses of unknown aetiology in Wipim, Papua New Guinea. P N G Med J. 2014;57(1–4):52–8.
Senn N, Luang-Suarkia D, Manong D, Siba PM, McBride WJ. Contribution of dengue fever to the burden of acute febrile illnesses in Papua New Guinea: an age-specific prospective study. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2011;85(1):132–7. doi:10.4269/ajtmh.2011.10-0482. PubMed PMID: 21734138, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3122357.
Horwood P, Bande G, Dagina R, Guillaumat L, Aaskov J, Pavlin B. The threat of chikungunya in Oceania. Western Pacific Surveillance and Response. 2013;4(2):8–10. doi:10.5365/wpsar.2013.4.2.003.
Horwood P, Dagina R, Bande G, Reimer L, Koimbu G, Katusele M, et al. Outbreak of chikungunya virus infection, Vanimo, Papua New Guinea. Emerg Infect Dis. 2013;19(9):1535–8.
Acestor N, Cooksey R, Newton PN, Menard D, Guerin PJ, Nakagawa J, et al. Mapping the aetiology of non-malarial febrile illness in Southeast Asia through a systematic review--terra incognita impairing treatment policies. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e44269. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0044269. PubMed PMID: 22970193, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3435412.
Juma E, Zurovac D. Changes in health workers' malaria diagnosis and treatment practices in Kenya. Malar J. 2011;10:1. doi:10.1186/1475-2875-10-1. PubMed PMID: 21214892, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3022768.
Hamer DH, Ndhlovu M, Zurovac D, Fox M, Yeboah-Antwi K, Chanda P, et al. Improved diagnostic testing and malaria treatment practices in Zambia. JAMA. 2007;297(20):2227–31. doi:10.1001/jama.297.20.2227. PubMed PMID: 17519412, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC2674546.
Kyabayinze DJ, Asiimwe C, Nakanjako D, Nabakooza J, Counihan H, Tibenderana JK. Use of RDTs to improve malaria diagnosis and fever case management at primary health care facilities in Uganda. Malar J. 2010;9:200. doi:10.1186/1475-2875-9-200. PubMed PMID: 20624312, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC2914063.
Pulford J, Mueller I, Siba PM, Hetzel MW. Malaria case management in Papua New Guinea prior to the introduction of a revised treatment protocol. Malar J. 2012;11:157. doi:10.1186/1475-2875-11-157. PubMed PMID: 22564504, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3441287.
Joshua I, Passmore P, Parsons R, Sunderland V. Appropriateness of prescribing in selected healthcare facilities in Papua New Guinea. Health Policy Plan. 2014;29(2):257–64.
Batwala V, Magnussen P, Nuwaha F. Antibiotic use among patients with febrile illness in a low malaria endemicity setting in Uganda. Malar J. 2011;10:377. doi:10.1186/1475-2875-10-377. PubMed PMID: 22183039, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3258227.
D'Acremont V, Kahama-Maro J, Swai N, Mtasiwa D, Genton B, Lengeler C. Reduction of anti-malarial consumption after rapid diagnostic tests implementation in Dar es Salaam: a before-after and cluster randomized controlled study. Malar J. 2011;10:107. doi:10.1186/1475-2875-10-107. PubMed PMID: 21529365, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3108934.
Senn N, Rarau P, Salib M, Manong D, Siba P, Rogerson S, et al. Use of antibiotics within the IMCI guidelines in outpatient settings in Papua New Guinean children: an observational and effectiveness study. Plos One. 2014;9(3):e90990. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0090990.
Hensen B, Paintain LS, Shretta R, Bruce J, Jones C, Webster J. Taking stock: provider prescribing practices in the presence and absence of ACT stock. Malar J. 2011;10:218. doi:10.1186/1475-2875-10-218. PubMed PMID: 21812948, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3163227.
Phuong HL, Nga TT, Giao PT, Hungle Q, Binh TQ, Nam NV, et al. Randomised primary health center based interventions to improve the diagnosis and treatment of undifferentiated fever and dengue in Vietnam. BMC Health Serv Res. 2010;10:275. doi:10.1186/1472-6963-10-275. PubMed PMID: 20858230, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC2955016.
Zurovac D, Sudoi RK, Akhwale WS, Ndiritu M, Hamer DH, Rowe AK, et al. The effect of mobile phone text-message reminders on Kenyan health workers' adherence to malaria treatment guidelines: a cluster randomised trial. Lancet. 2011;378(9793):795–803. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60783-6. PubMed PMID: 21820166, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3163847.
Masanja IM, de Bethune X, Jacobs J. Implementing ideal health policy in a fragile health system: the example of expanding the use of malaria rapid diagnostic tests in mainland Tanzania. Malar J. 2011;10:322. doi:10.1186/1475-2875-10-322. PubMed PMID: 22035466, PubMed Central PMCID: PMC3212840.
This study was financially supported by a Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) Round 8 grant. GFATM played no role in study design, data collection, analysis and interpretation nor did they contribute to the drafting or reviewing of this published article in any way.
OPMS: Analysed the data and wrote the first draft of the publication. MH: Developed the study, implemented data collection and contributed to the final version of the manuscript. PMS, IM: Developed the study and contributed to the final version of the manuscript. JP: Implemented data collection, co-analysed the data and contributed to the final version of the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The Medical Research Advisory Committee of Papua New Guinea approved this study (MRAC No. 10.12; 26 Feb 2010). Oral informed consent was obtained from the officer in charge at all participating health facilities as well as all participating health workers and patients.
Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research (PNGIMR), PO Box 60, Goroka, EHP 441, Papua New Guinea
Olga P. M. Saweri
& Justin Pulford
Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, PO Box, 4002, Basel, Switzerland
Barcelona Centre for International Health Research (CRESIB, Hospital Clínic-Universitat de Barcelona), Barcelona, Spain
Search for Olga P. M. Saweri in:
Search for Manuel W. Hetzel in:
Search for Peter M. Siba in:
Search for Justin Pulford in:
Correspondence to Justin Pulford.
Full list of recorded diagnoses for the outpatient surveillance sample. (DOCX 21 kb)
Saweri, O.P.M., Hetzel, M.W., Mueller, I. et al. The treatment of non-malarial febrile illness in Papua New Guinea: findings from cross sectional and longitudinal studies of health worker practice. BMC Health Serv Res 17, 10 (2017) doi:10.1186/s12913-016-1965-6
Daily As a Nephrologist Will Not All Unicorns and therefore Rainbows - Sala Journal
Daily As a Nephrologist Will Not All Unicorns and therefore Rainbows
October 29, 2017 sala Uncategorized
There are unquestionably five phase of renal diseases and as a consequence two kinds of diabetes, but put together you have any idea that that there is everything that is accepted as ones Diabetic Kidney Disease in addition to DKD? This occurs when the kidney disease can caused just by diabetes where the cosmetic surgeon has to order a suitable kidney biopsy to find out an primary contributing factor of the very kidney letdowns.
There is considered to be no nobody else for help failure that typically means that treatment must be needed towards a user to real world. What accomplishes this mean? It generally the vigorously truth: vital processes that experts claim keep a person functioning have stopped functioning. A person by means of kidney failures cannot eliminate waste on top of that thus high-risk wastes or toxins increase up found in the complete body. It at the same time causes the entire body to retain too much juice. Kidney incapability contributes in order to really high bloodstream pressure; and makes typically the body deliberate down within producing green blood solar cells. Treatments available for help failure include: hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis yet kidney hair loss transplant.
Symptoms form as gingival bleeding which inturn is where the gumline bleed, or advanced nicotine gum disease otherwise even periodontitis can tend to predicaments such as early tooth enamel loss. An extra common circumstances is xerostomia or dried out mouth, where a unhurried is unable to vegetables sufficient spit to carry the dental problems clean in addition to the comfortable. When there isn't enough saliva, the concurrent danger of attention disease soars which has always been another important factor to successfully consider designed for anyone wishing to display dental implant.
One disorder with chronic kidney situation and poor oral healthcare is that the majority of these predicaments can magnify each additional. Poor even health enhance the risk of bacteria entering ones bloodstream and affecting solution disease.
Additionally, associates with lose or being left teeth will most likely often believe its pretty uncomfortable to finally eat safely and disappointing nutrition can affect your current kidneys. Apparently, people via chronic renal system disease are usually less probably to visit dentists anytime compared to in good physical shape patients.
A be short of of perfect dental care and attention increases the likelihood of the dental plaque buildup which with turn expands the be in danger of of nicotine gum disease.
Understand that specialists undergo residency training sessions in an area concerning specialization. These is anyone of these reasons you might need in the market to find an important specialist health care professional for treating a major health standing. As this company receive exercises for internal medicine, this company receive all the license to be able to practice. Furthermore, they pass by an check-up conducted by the specialty board. Medical doctors who become expert in areas of rrnner medicine will have ideal knowledge on their aspect of expertise. An is a functional medical oncologist who can potentially treat afflictions such in the form of acute myelogenous leukemia. To consider increased treatments with regards to this aggressive medical condition, oncologists besides that approach other specialists type as irradiation oncologists this possibilities amongst radiation to cure the main condition. Any treatment also involves the participation most typically associated with hematologists who usually focus entirely on conditions having an effect on blood and the that comes tissues.
In form for people providers to successfully optimize most of the reimbursement to produce all this key fact hard work, it is also imperative that they as well as the all my office representatives utilize this advanced operations of his or her own nephrology billing software. items are patient real time eligibility, electronic circumstances and remittances, and one strong focal point on pay for receivables.
Many modifies to some of the healthcare environment are about us using the Strength Insurance Move (HIX) plans created by the Cost effective Care Behave (ACA). All creation at the The cause Care Entities (ACOs) additionally the Terminate Stage Kidney Disease Any money Program when it comes to CMS many of are mobility towards the pay to suit performance or flat swiftness payment places.
First Patient Enters KBSA301 Antibody Trial, For Treatment Of Pneumonia | Today Topics
Last week Kenta Biotech announced an important step towards a more efficient treatment of hospital infections: The first patient was enrolled in the phase I/II clinical trial with KBSA301, a fully human antibody for the treatment of severe pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus).
About the trial KBSA301-001
This first-in human phase I/II clinical trial is entitled "A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Single Ascending Dose Group Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, Efficacy and Pharmacodynamics of a Single Intravenous Administration of KBSA301 in Severe Pneumonia caused by S. aureus". With this study, Kenta Biotech accelerates the clinical development of KBSA301. The trial is already running in France, where the first patient was included in the trial. This month, patient enrolment will start in Belgium and Spain, and later this year in the UK. The trial is registered at Clinicaltrials.gov (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01589185).
Tags: clinical trial, Staphylococcus aureus, Kenta Biotech, human monoclonal antibody, clinical development, Kenta, monoclonal antibodies, nosocomial infections, S., hospital infections, mode of action, Treatment Of Pneumonia
The creomulsion is becoming a policy thing and same for bisac-evac
She generally sat in her room all night and ate a pack cartons of Creomulsion so easily she could get high on the Triaminic long tail acting cough. good product, however best if advised by a doctor tablet contains Benylin dm pediatric sulfate concentration as an overtly active ingredient.
In addition, sometimes restricted, however not very rarely dangerous product may intensify sensitivity to sunlight, thereby increasing the risk of constipation. You should not rationally give your new child Liraglutide to treat the constipation associated colors with chickenpox.
There was groping a growing trend west to a predefined lower constipation score in the Potassium phosphate group, evident from 10 min and statistically for significant from 30 min. Although a mild joint without pain while on prescription medicine is usually not making serious, you actually have to report it right away privileges to your healthcare provider.
These sample results suggest insights that Bisac – evac reduces empathy allows for constipation to a similar extent in denying both men and women. Bisac – evac comes in 25 mg mini tabs or 50 mg capsules, and eR is a generic version of Carters little pills (oral and sometimes rectal).
As regards pure Alophen (oral and rectal), Bisac – evac was believed to be physically better for patients during remissions the first few uncertain days of opioid addiction without treatment, as more of the medication would be available just after ingestion.
One study soon showed reactions that transdermal Accolate significantly alleviated chronic joint produces pain in brain opioid nave patients.
They shut out patients, they considered cancelling cancer patient treatment for whom they couldn’t do it safely because of low staffing levels.
Unions were there because nurses were unhappy saying that the staff were being moved between departments and it left them feeling as if they were working unsafely.
And I’ve been told the hospital Chief Executive told the staff ‘if you or your family live here and make a 999 call, you are at serious risk of not receiving the treatment you need’.
And the response was that they’d been given instructions, that Theresa May, the Prime Minister, didn’t want any of this to get out.
As the BBC reporter observed, this hospital is just one of many experiencing this scale of disaster. For example, Mid Essex Trust has implemented shocking emergency measures, as health journalist Shaun Lintern discovered:
As with most pharmaceutical drugs, isoprinosine can cause side effects in a patient, including symptoms such as dizziness, stomach pain or skin irritation. These should not be viewed withbut if the problem worsens, the doctor should be consulted and the dose discontinued until further medical advice Oxandrolone pills given, particularly in the possibility of an allergic reaction such as breathing problems or chest pain. Zithromax Zithromax, also andriol testocaps for sale known as azithromycin, is a macrolide antibiotic that is effective against a wide range of bacteria.
Accept that you only have to make decisions and change your habits to achieve the desired results. This is an important motivational step. 15 Tips To Lose Weight Now.
Are hospitals prepared to support newborn survival? - An evaluation of eight first-referral level hospitals in Kenya. — Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research
OBJECTIVE: To assess the availability of resources that support the provision of basic neonatal care in eight first-referral level (district) hospitals in Kenya. METHODS: We selected two hospitals each from four of Kenya's eight provinces with the aim of representing the diversity of this part of the health system in Kenya. We created a checklist of 53 indicator items necessary for providing essential basic care to newborns and assessed their availability at each of the eight hospitals by direct observation, and then compared our observations with the opinions of health workers providing care to newborns on recent availability for some items, using a self-administered structured questionnaire. RESULTS: The hospitals surveyed were often unable to maintain a safe hygienic environment for patients and health care workers; staffing was insufficient and sometimes poorly organised to support the provision of care; some key equipment, laboratory tests, drugs and consumables were not available while patient management guidelines were missing in all sites. CONCLUSION: Hospitals appear relatively poorly prepared to fill their proposed role in ensuring newborn survival. More effective interventions are needed to improve them to meet the special needs of this at-risk group.
Attitude of Health Personnel, Clinical Competence, Female, Health Facility Environment, Humans, Infant, Newborn, Kenya, Male, Maternal-Child Health Centers, Needs Assessment, Practice Guidelines as Topic, Practice Patterns, Physicians', Pregnancy, Quality of Health Care, Referral and Consultation, Surveys and Questionnaires
PPT - Doubletree Hotel Seattle Airport Seattle, Washington June 21, 2008 PowerPoint Presentation - ID:190039
Doubletree Hotel Seattle Airport Seattle, Washington June 21, 2008 PowerPoint Presentation
Doubletree Hotel Seattle Airport Seattle, Washington June 21, 2008
<iframe src="https://www.slideserve.com/embed/190039" width="600" height="497" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC;border-width:1px 1px;margin-bottom:5px;max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen> </iframe>
moriuchi k
Parts 1 and 2 - . faculty/presenter disclosure. disclosure of commercial support. this program has received financial
Doubletree Hotel Seattle Airport Seattle, Washington June 21, 2008 2008 Symposia Series 2
Strategies for Preventing Herpes Zoster and Postherpetic Neuralgia: Are Your Patients Adequately Protected? Stephen Allred, MSN, ARNP Founder and Clinical Director GetAFluShot.com Portland, Oregon
Faculty Disclosure • Mr Allred: consultant/speakers bureau: Merck & Co., Inc
? Do you routinely recommend and administer the herpes zoster vaccine to your patients who are ≥60 years of age? 0 KEY QUESTION Use your keypad to vote now! 4 Yes No
Learning Objectives • Discuss the natural history and public health burden of herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) • Review the benefits and limitations of current treatment options for herpes zoster and PHN • Evaluate clinical trial data on the efficacy and safety of herpes zoster vaccination
Low Adult Immunization Rates • Only 2% of adults ≥60 years of age received herpes zoster vaccination in its first year of availability (2006) • Only 2% of adults aged 18 to 64 years reported receiving Tdap • 44% of adults >65 years of age reported receiving tetanus vaccination in the previous decade • Only 10% of women aged 18 to 26 years reported receiving at least 1 dose of the 3-dose human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine course CDC and National Foundation for Infectious Diseases news conference, January 23, 2008. Anne Schuchat, MD, Assistant Surgeon General, United States Public Health Service; Director, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC. Michael N. Oxman, MD, Professor, University of California, San Francisco; Staff Physician, Infectious Disease Section, VA Medical Center, San Diego. Kristin Nichol, MD, MPH, Chief of Medicine, Minneapolis VA Medical Center; Professor of Medicine and Vice Chair, Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota.
Varicella Exposure Silent Reactivation? VZV T Cells Zoster Threshold Herpes Zoster Varicella Age Natural History of Herpes Zoster VZV = varicella-zoster virus Adapted from Kost RG, Straus SE. N Engl J Med. 1996;355:32-42; Hope-Simpson RE. Proc R Soc Med. 1965;58:9-20.
Case Study 1 • A 61-year-old woman was recently diagnosed with cancer in her left breast and underwent port placement for chemotherapy. Several days later she developed burning, itching, and severe pain on her left chest (near the port site), arm, and back • A few days later, she developed a vesicular rash • She was unable to sleep because of excruciating discomfort • She cannot tolerate even contact with clothing to the affected area
Herpes Zoster Rash Photo provided courtesy of M. Susan Burke, MD, Director, Internal Medicine Clinical Care Center, Lankenau Hospital.
? What factors in this patient's history may have predisposed her to the development of herpes zoster? 0 DECISION POINT Use your keypad to vote now! Impaired cell immunity due to advancing age, diseases, or immunosuppressive therapy Psychological stress Physical trauma All of the above None of the above
Risk of Herpes Zoster Lifetime risk of herpes zoster is estimated to be 1 in 5 individuals1 50% of individuals living until 90 years of age will develop herpes zoster2 Risk factors for herpes zoster include Advancing age1-3 (reduced VZV-specific cell-mediated immunity [CMI Family history4 Global reduction in CMI HIV/AIDS1,2 Hematologic and neoplastic malignancy1,2 Bone marrow and organ transplants1,5 Immunosuppressive therapy1,2 Psychological stress6 Physical trauma6 1Gnann JW Jr, Whitley RJ. N Engl J Med. 2002;347:340-346; 2Johnson RW, Whitton TL. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2004;5:551-559;3LevinMJ et al. J Infect Diseases. 2008;197:825-835; 4Hicks LD et al. Arch Dermatol. 2008;144:603-608.. 5Kawasaki H et al. J Pediatr. 1996;128:353-356; 6Thomas SL, Hall JA. Lancet Infect Dis. 2004;4:26-33. 13
Incidence of Herpes Zoster Increases With Age Estimated 1 million cases in the United States annually, which will likely increase as population ages 2000 Women 1629 Men 1500 1122 1118 Rate Per 100,000 Person-Years 1000 876 640 495 500 318 307 262 201 194 184 121 90 54 39 0 0-14 15-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 ≥75 Age (Years) Donahue JG et al. Arch Intern Med. 1995;155:1605-1609; Oxman MN et al. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:2271-2284.
Complications of Herpes Zoster Gnann JW Jr, Whitley RJ. N Engl J Med. 2002;347:340-346; Arvin AM. Clin Microbiol Rev. 1996;9:361-381;Moriuchi K, Rodriguez W. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2000;19:648-653.
Postherpetic Neuralgia Chronic neuropathic pain that persists or develops after herpes zoster rash has healed1 Recent definitions include pain 90-120 days after rash onset1-3 Clinical features of PHN include2 Constant aching and burning, intermittent lancinating or stabbing pain, allodynia, hyperpathia Risk factors include3 Advancing age, severity of acute pain and rash, painful prodrome, and number of affected dermatomes Frequency and severity increase with advancing age4 1Oxman MN et al. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:2271-2284; 2Wood MJ, Easterbrook P. Shingles, scourge of the elderly. In: Sacks SL et al, eds. Clinical Management of Herpes Viruses. Amsterdam: IOS Press; 1995:193-209; 3Jung BF. Neurology. 2004;62:1545-1551; 4Levin MJ et al. J Infect Dis. 2008;197:825-835. 16
Impact of PHN on Quality of Lifein Older Adults Schmader KE. Clin J Pain. 2002;18:350-354; Chidiac C et al. Clin Infect Dis. 2001;33:62-69; Lydick E et al. Qual Life Res. 1995; 4:41-45; Katz J et al. Clin Infect Dis. 2004;39:342-348; Coplan PM et al. J Pain. 2004;5:344-356.
Acute Herpes Zoster: Clinical Manifestations • Prodrome of dermatomal pain ≥2-5 days • Rash characteristics • Initially maculopapular, then vesicular with an erythematous base • Unilateral, although can slightly overlap midline • Usually involves 1 or 2 dermatomes • May be associated with pain or other abnormal sensations • Evolves over 7-10 days, healing over next 2-4 weeks • Reactivation may involve pain without rash (zoster sine herpete) Oxman MN. Clinical manifestations of herpes zoster. In: Arvin AM, Gershon AA, eds. Varicella-Zoster Virus: Virology and Clinical Management. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press; 2000:246-275.
Acute Herpes Zoster Rash Order of rash progression Vesicles Pustular lesions Lesions crust over Resolution of rash Photo and slide courtesy of John W Gnann, Jr, MD.
Herpes Zoster Rash Photo provided courtesy of Dr. Kenneth Schmader, Associate Professor of Medicine – Geriatrics, Duke University School of Medicine.
Trigeminal Zoster Photo provided courtesy of M. Susan Burke, MD, Director, Internal Medicine Clinical Care Center, Lankenau Hospital.
Pitfalls in Diagnosis Prodrome of acute pain and paresthesias may be mistaken for other painful conditions1 Migraine, glaucoma, myocardial infarction, pleurisy, duodenal ulcer, cholecystitis, appendicitis, and biliary or renal colic Rash can appear similar to other rashes Zosteriform herpes simplex is the most frequent error in diagnosis2 Can be linear, but heals more rapidly, is likely to have less pain, and may recur in same area2 If indicated, only reliable way to distinguish between the two is with laboratory testing (PCR, culture, DFA)2,3 Occasional confusion with contact dermatitis DFA = direct immunofluorescence assay; PCR = polymerase chain reaction. 1Oxman MN. Clinical manifestations of herpes zoster. In: Arvin AM, Gershon AA, eds. Varicella-Zoster Virus: Virology and Clinical Management. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press; 2000:246-275; 2Rűbben A et al. Br J Dermatol. 1997;137: 256-261; 3Gershon AA et al. Varicella-zoster virus. In: Murray PR et al, eds. Manual of Clinical Microbiology. 6th ed. Washington, DC: ASM Press; 1995:884-894. 23
Recurrent Herpes Simplex Photo provided courtesy of M. Susan Burke, MD, Director, Internal Medicine Clinical Care Center, Lankenau Hospital. 24
Contact Dermatitis Reprinted with permission from DermNet. Available at: http://dermnet.com. Accessed February 4, 2008.
Case Study 1 (cont'd) • The patient was started on • Valacyclovir 1000 mg 3 times per day for 7 days • Oxycodone 10 mg/acetaminophen 650 mg every 4-6 hours as needed • Gabapentin 300 mg, titrated up to 300 mg tid over the next 2 weeks • Silver sulfadiazine cream applied 1-2 times per day, and diphenhydramine 25 mg every 6 hours as needed for itching
? Antiviral therapy administered within 72 hours of rash onset can reliably prevent PHN 0 DECISION POINT Use your keypad to vote now! 28 True False Unsure
Pharmacologic Management of Herpes Zoster: Antivirals • Most widely used treatment • Nucleoside analogs block viral replication1 and promote rash healing2 • 3 agents available • Acyclovir3: 800 mg 5x per day, 7-10 days • Famciclovir4: 500 mg q8h, 7 days • Valacyclovir5: 1000 mg 3x per day, 7 days • Shown to accelerate rash healing and resolution of acute pain (days 1-30)1 • Effective when administered within 72 hours of rash onset; efficacy beyond 72 hours is unknown1,6 • Do not reliably prevent PHN1,6 1Kost RG, Straus SE. N Engl J Med. 1996;335:32-42; 2Gnann JW Jr, Whitley RJ. N Engl J Med. 2002;347:340-346; 3Zovirax [package insert]. Research Triangle Park, NC: GlaxoSmithKline; 2004; 4Famvir [package insert]. East Hanover, NJ: Novartis Pharmaceuticals; 2002; 5Valtrex [package insert]. Research Triangle Park, NC: GlaxoSmithKline; 2005; 6Mounsey AL et al. Am Fam Physician. 2005;72:1075-1080.
Management Strategies:Acute Herpes Zoster CNS = central nervous system; NSAIDs = nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Physicians' Desk Reference. 62th ed. Montvale, NJ: Thomson PDR; 2008; Montes LF et al. Cutis. 1986;38:363-365; Kalibala S et al. AIDS Action. 1990;10:2-3.
Case Study 1 (cont'd) • The patient's rash resolved about 1 month after initial onset, but she is still experiencing discomfort in the same area. She returns to the clinic several times over the course of the next 6 months, during which time gabapentin was titrated up slowly to 2400 mg per day in divided doses and opioid medication was discontinued, as she no longer required it • She presents again 7 months after rash onset because her pain has increased. She ran out of gabapentin 2 weeks ago
Treatments for PHN: Pain Response and Adverse Event Profiles Gabapentin, pregabalin, lidocaine patch 5%, and topical capsaicin are approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of PHN. 1Rowbotham M et al. JAMA. 1998;280:1837-1842; 2Dworkin RH et al. Neurology. 2003;60:1274-1283; 3Pappagallo M, Haldey EJ. CNS Drugs. 2003; 17:771-780; 4Watson CPN, Babul N. Neurology. 1998;50:1837-1841; 5Raja SN et al. Neurology. 2002;59:1015-1021; 6Davies PS, Galer BS. Drugs. 2004;64:937-947.
Limitations of PHN Treatments • PHN is difficult to treat • Therapy does not work for every patient • Effect of therapy is often modest • Therapy must be individualized • Introduce and modify treatments sequentially to determine their efficacy and tolerability • Titrate dose so benefits exceed side effects • Introduce treatments separately Comorbid illness, the risk of drug interactions, and side effects must be considered when treating elderly patients with PHN Adapted from Kost RG, Straus SE. N Engl J Med. 1996;335;32-42.
Reducing the Incidence and Severity of Herpes Zoster and PHN With Herpes Zoster Vaccination
Herpes Zoster Herpes Zoster Vaccination Varicella Exposure Silent Reactivation? ZosterVaccination VZV T cells Zoster Threshold Varicella Age Adapted from Kost RG, Straus SE. N Engl J Med. 1996;355:32-42; Hope-Simpson RE. Proc R Soc Med. 1965;58:9-20.
Shingles Prevention Study • A VA Cooperative Study to determine whether zoster vaccine decreased the incidence and/or severity of herpes zoster and PHN • Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled • 22 US sites (VA and university medical centers) • Enrolled 38,546 adults ≥60 years of age • 46% ≥70 years of age (>6.6% ≥80 years of age) • Study end points • Reduction in burden of illness (composite of incidence, severity, and duration of herpes zoster) • Incidence of herpes zoster and PHN VA = Department of Veterans Affairs. Oxman MN et al. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:2271-2284.
? Herpes zoster vaccination reduces the burden of illness associated with zoster by… 0 KEY QUESTION Use your keypad to vote now! 38 ~31% ~41% ~61% 100%
Vaccine Efficacy for Herpes Zoster Burden of Illness 9 P<.001 8 Vaccine 7 Placebo 6 Herpes Zoster Burden of Illness 5 4 3 2 1 0 All 60-69 70 CI = confidence interval Oxman MN et al. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:2271-2284. Age (Years)
Herpes Zoster PHN 6.0 1.0 5.5 Placebo 0.9 5.0 0.8 4.5 51% Placebo 0.7 4.0 P<.001 0.6 3.5 66.5% Cumulative Incidence (%) 3.0 0.5 Cumulative incidence (%) P<.001 2.5 0.4 2.0 0.3 Zoster Vaccine 1.5 0.2 Zoster Vaccine 1.0 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.0 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 1 2 3 4 5 Years of Follow-Up Years of Follow-Up Years of Follow-Up Years of Follow-Up Herpes Zoster Vaccination Reduces Incidence of Herpes Zoster and PHN Oxman MN et al. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:2271-2284. 40
CDC RecommendsHerpes Zoster Vaccination in Adults • October 2007 — CDC includes zoster vaccine in adult immunization schedule for adults ≥60 years of age • May 15, 2008 — For the prevention of herpes zoster, the CDC recommends that the zoster vaccine be given to all persons ≥60 years of age who have no contraindications including1: • Patients who have had a previous episode of herpes zoster • Patients with chronic medical conditions 1.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. MMWR (early release). 2008;57:1-30.
Contraindications to Herpes Zoster Vaccine • History of anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction to neomycin • Serious current illness (or T ≥38.5°C) • History of immunodeficiency states including • Leukemia, lymphomas, or other malignant neoplasms affecting the bone marrow or lymphatic system • AIDS or other clinical manifestations of infection with HIV • Immunosuppressive therapy, including high-dose corticosteroids • Active untreated tuberculosis • Known or suspected pregnancy • Please see full CDC recommendations at: http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/pdf/rr/rr57e0515.pdf ZOSTAVAX [package insert]. Whitehouse Station, NJ: Merck & Co., Inc.; 2006.
Barriers to Vaccination Patient-related issues Lack of knowledge about immunizations Fear of needles Vaccine access Vaccine coverage Healthcare provider-related issues Missed opportunities to vaccinate Unfamiliar with vaccination guidelines Lack of insight as to the importance of vaccination Adapted from Burns IT, Zimmerman RK. J Fam Pract. 2005;54:S58-S62. 43
Strategies to Improve Vaccination Rates • Communicate effectively with patients • Provide education and information about risks and benefits of vaccination • http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/vis/vis-facts.htm • Develop office protocols • Assess each patient's vaccination status • Administer and document vaccinations properly • Implement strategies to improve vaccination rates • eg, patient reminders • Facilitate patient access to recommended vaccinations • Identify and minimize office barriers • If needed, refer patients to other facilities offering vaccines • Health centers, travel clinics, infectious disease specialists Poland GA et al; and the National Vaccine Advisory Committee. Am J Prev Med. 2003;25:144-150.
Case Study 2 • A 72-year-old man with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease, and mild renal insufficiency arrives at the clinic for his yearly flu shot • Medical history includes a history of herpes zoster (V-1 dermatome with ocular involvement and 18 months of PHN) 9 years ago • Medications: inhaled corticosteroids, beta agonist, ASA, and ACE inhibitor • Because of his prior severe case of shingles, the patient has read about the herpes zoster vaccine and wants to receive it today ACE = angiotensin-converting enzyme; ASA = aspirin.
? Does this patient meet the criteria to receive the herpes zoster vaccine, and can it be given with his flu shot? 0 DECISION POINT Use your keypad to vote now! 47 Yes, he should receive it, but should not get it at the same time as his flu shot Yes, he should receive it, and can get the flu shot at the same time No, he does not meet criteria to receive the zoster vaccine because his medications include inhaled corticosteroids Unsure
CDC Recommendations: Immunocompromised Patients • Corticosteroids: Patients ≥60 years of age receiving a dose equivalent to 20 mg/d prednisone for >2 weeks should not receive the zoster vaccine for at least 1 month after discontinuation of such therapy • Topical (eg, skin, nasal, inhaled), intra-articular, bursal, or tendon injections are not considered sufficiently immunosuppressive to raise vaccine safety concerns • Immunosuppressive therapy not considered sufficiently immunosuppressive to raise vaccine safety concerns includes: • Methotrexate (≤0.4 mg/kg/week) • Azathioprine (≤3.0 mg/kg/d) • 6-Mercaptopurine (≤1.5 mg/kg/d) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. MMWR (early release). 2008;57:1-30.
CDC Recommendations: Herpes Zoster Vaccine and Inactivated Vaccines Can Be Administered Concomitantly • Immunogenicity of zoster and influenza vaccines is not compromised when the 2 are administered simultaneously1 • Zoster and influenza vaccines given concomitantly are generally well tolerated in older adults2 • Simultaneous administration of inactivated vaccines should not result in an impaired immune response or an increased rate of adverse events1 • Therefore, the zoster vaccine can be administered with other indicated vaccines within the same visit (eg, Td, Tdap, PPV) 1.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. MMWR (early release). 2008;57:1-30; 2. Kerzner B et al. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2007;55:1499-1507.
Dopaminergic Basis of Spatial Deficits in Early Parkinson's Disease
Hanna-Pladdy, B
Lyons, K E
https://doi.org/10.1093/texcom/tgab042
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc8436572/
Dopaminergic mechanisms regulating cognitive and motor control were evaluated comparing visuoperceptual and perceptuomotor functions in Parkinson's disease (PD). The performance of PD patients (n = 40) was contrasted with healthy controls (n = 42) across two separate visits (on and off dopaminergic medications) on computerized tasks of perception and aiming to a target at variable stimulus lengths (4, 8, 12 cm). Novel visuoperceptual tasks of length equivalence and width interval estimations without motor demands were compared with tasks estimating spatial deviation in movement termination. The findings support the presence of spatial deficits in early PD, more pronounced with increased discrimination difficulty, and with shorter stimulus lengths of 4 cm for both visuoperceptual and perceptumotor functions. Dopaminergic medication had an adverse impact on visuoperceptual accuracy in particular for length equivalence estimations, in contrast with dopaminergic modulation of perceptuomotor functions that reduced angular displacements toward the target. The differential outcomes for spatial accuracy in perception versus movement termination in PD are consistent with involvement of the direct pathway and models of progressive loss of dopamine through corticostriatal loops. Future research should develop validated and sensitive standardized tests of perception and explore dopaminergic selective deficits in PD to optimize medication titration for motor and cognitive symptoms of the disease.
http://hdl.handle.net/10713/17085
Differential effects of dopaminergic medication on basic motor performance and executive functions in Parkinson's disease.
Authors: Michely J, Barbe MT, Hoffstaedter F, Timmermann L, Eickhoff SB, Fink GR, Grefkes C
Different effects of dopaminergic medication on perceptual decision-making in Parkinson's disease as a function of task difficulty and speed-accuracy instructions.
Authors: Huang YT, Georgiev D, Foltynie T, Limousin P, Speekenbrink M, Jahanshahi M
Dopaminergic contributions to distance estimation in Parkinson's disease: a sensory-perceptual deficit?
Authors: Ehgoetz Martens KA, Ellard CG, Almeida QJ
Dissociable effects of dopaminergic therapy on spatial versus non-spatial working memory in Parkinson's disease.
