human-genome | Futurist Transhuman News Blog
Tag Archives: human-genome
HGP10 Symposium: Engineering a Healthcare System to Deliver Genomic Medicine – Dan Roden – Video
Posted on May 6, 2013 by admin	HGP10 Symposium: Engineering a Healthcare System to Deliver Genomic Medicine – Dan Roden April 25, 2013 – The Genomics Landscape a Decade after the Human Genome Project More: http://www.genome.gov/27552257. By: GenomeTV Continue reading →
Posted in Medicine	| Tagged after-the-human, decade, deliver, genomics, genomics-landscape, human-genome, medicine, project, project-more, roden, symposium	The Human Genome: A User's Guide – , Catherine A. Mori – Video
Posted on December 28, 2012 by admin	The Human Genome: A User's Guide – , Catherine A. Continue reading →
Posted in Eugenics	| Tagged a-concise-discussion, aids, cystic-fibrosis-, development, fundamental, gene-expression, generated, guide, human-genetics-, human-genome, reader, role	Research and Markets: Molecular Medicine. Edition No. 4
Posted in Medicine	| Tagged dna, genetic-or-dna, human, human-genome, markets, medicine, molecular, molecular-medicine, research, the-application, their-offering-, will-appreciate	Personalized Medicine From Genomics and Bioinformatics Highlighted at UCSF Genetics Symposium
Posted in Human Genetics	| Tagged a-role-for, featured-at-the, human-genetics, human-genome, identification, institute, research, ucsf	Cafe Sci: A Holy Grail of Bioinformatics (Part 1 of 4) – Video
Posted in Artificial Intelligence	| Tagged a-genome-and, a-pivotal-role, bioinformatics, biological, center-at-sri, dna, has-transformed, human-genome, intersection, models, project, resulting	Advancing Health Care: Personalized Genetic Medicine – Video
Posted on October 30, 2012 by admin	Advancing Health Care: Personalized Genetic Medicine The Partners HealthCare Center for Personalized Genetic Medicine (PCPGM) was launched in recognition of the excitement of the Human Genome Project and as a commitment to the importance that genetic and genomic knowledge would play in human health.From:PartnersHealthCareViews:57 0ratingsTime:03:28More inScience Technology Continue reading →
Posted in Genetic Medicine	| Tagged advancing-health, human-genome, human-health, importance, medicine, partners, partners-health, personalized, science-technology	Personalized medicine and the Human Genome Project
Posted on June 1, 2012 by admin	By April Cashin-Garbutt, BA Hons (Cantab) Its nearly a decade since the completion of the Human Genome Project, (1) which aimed to sequence the complete human genome. The project promised potentially amazing advances for medicine. Professor Allan Bradley, the director of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, said to the BBC that the eventual health benefits could be phenomenal.(2) But how close actually are we to personalized medicine? Continue reading →
Posted in Human Genetics	| Tagged a-large-role, april-cashin-, complete, completion, conditions-such, depression-and, human-genome, project, wellcome, wellcome-trust	Genetic information may not significantly improve disease risk prediction
Posted on May 26, 2012 by admin	Washington, May 25 : Detailed knowledge about your genetic makeup'the interplay between genetic variants and other genetic variants, or between genetic variants and environmental risk factors'may only change your estimated disease prediction risk for three common diseases by a few percentage points, which is typically not enough to make a difference in prevention or treatment plans, say researchers. The study by Harvard School of Public Health (HSPH) researchers is the first to revisit claims in previous research that including such information in risk models would eventually help doctors either prevent or treat diseases. Continue reading →
Posted in Genetic Medicine	| Tagged between-genetic, department, disease, harvard-school, hugues-aschard, human-genome, prediction-risk, project, public-health-, scientists	Smithsonian to Create Its 1st Human Genome Exhibit
Posted on May 23, 2012 by admin	The Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History is developing its first major exhibit on the human genome with a $3 million pledge announced Monday from a biotechnology company. The philanthropic foundation of Life Technologies Corp Continue reading →
Posted in Human Genetics	| Tagged dna, exhibit-on-the, first, health, history, human, human-genome, marks-the-10th, national, national-human, patents, project, revolutionary, technologies, white	Categories	Aerospace
Plaquenil And Alcohol Side Effects - Canadian Pharmacies Online
Plaquenil And Alcohol Side Effects > North West Pharmacy Canada
Home Plaquenil 200mg > Plaquenil and alcohol side effects >
Discussion in 'Plaquenil 200mg' started by Andro84, 08-Mar-2020.
Chloroquine spc Plaquenil withdrawal severe hunger pains
Significant improvements in joint score, pain, and grip strength but not erythrocyte sedimentation rate ESR were seen in the active drug group. In another study, patients were given 200 mg PO once daily, and if no side effects were noted after 2 weeks, the dose was increased to 7 mg/kg/day Max 400 mg/day PO. Serious side effects. blurred vision or other vision changes. ringing in your ears or hearing loss. angioedema, or rapid swelling of your skin. hives. mild or severe bronchospasm that causes trouble breathing. sore throat. unusual bleeding or bruising. blue-black skin color. muscle weakness. hair. Consumer information about the medication HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE - ORAL Plaquenil, includes side effects, drug interactions, recommended dosages, and storage information. Read more about the prescription drug HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE - ORAL.
Can I take Plaquenil and drink alcohol? - Page 3, Hydroxychloroquine Side Effects, Dosage, Uses, and More
Common Side Effects of Plaquenil. Tell your doctor if any of the following side effects, as they may be indications of a more serious reaction Headache; Loss of appetite; Dizziness; Nausea However, in some people hydroxychloroquine can cause skin rashes, especially those made worse by sunlight. feeling sick nausea or indigestion. diarrhoea. headaches. bleaching of the hair or mild hair loss. tinnitus ringing in the ears visual problems. Get medical help right away if you have any very serious side effects, including sensitivity to light, vision changes e.g. blurred vision, seeing light flashes/streaks/halos, missing/blacked-out areas of vision, muscle weakness, numbness/tingling/pain of the arms/legs.
mik_mik, 08-Mar-2020 22:10
Benefits include even better soft lens searches and helpful contact lens calculators (including RGPs and cross cylinders). The Risk of Retinal Toxicity with Plaquenil Plaquenil - Colorado Springs Eye Clinic Plaquenil Toxicity Screening - Retina Group of New York
StarX, 04-Mar-2020 17:53
Plaquenil (hydroxychloroquine) belongs to a group of medicines called quinolines. Hydroxychloroquine Oral Route Description and Brand Names. Hydroxychloroquine Cigna Comprehensive Rheumatoid Arthritis RA Drugs DMARDs Types.
Its cool, 06-Mar-2020 01:22
Mylan Hydroxychloroquine - Guardian et I. D. A. MYLAN HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE, 200MG, COMPRIME Description. Ce médicament est habituellement utilisé pour l'arthrite rhumatoïde. On l'emploie aussi pour traiter la malaria, pour le lupus érythémateux, ainsi que pour d'autres indications.
Walking In Divine Health | Free Sermons And Christian Articles
14:28 | Posted by Bishop Sola Adetunji | | Edit Post
Sickness is not in the original plan of God. That was why there was no hospital in the garden. Sickness or absence of good health is not the will of God.
Sickness has no other author but the devil. But we could however identify some direct/indirect causes of sickness.
1.Sin: David, speaking by inspiration of the Holy Ghost, said, Fools because of their transgressions, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted. Ps. 107:17. Sin breaks down the hedge that God builds around you, thus permitting Satan to afflict you.
2.Stress John 4:6
When you're stressed, the adrenal glands ramp up the release of the hormones cortisol, adrenaline, and nor-epinephrine. Adrenaline speeds up your heart rate and can raise blood pressure. Cortisol causes changes in the blood vessels that can, over time, increase the risk of heart attack or stroke. Meanwhile, the brain relays the stress signals to the gut, which changes up its routine to allow your body to focus on the stressor. This is what's behind that "butterflies in the stomach" feeling, but it can also lead to digestive problems and affect the composition of your gut bacteria.
Cortisol, meanwhile, can also increase appetite and prompt the body to put on deep-belly fat. That fat releases compounds called cytokines, which in turn raise the risk of developing chronic diseases. When stress is chronic, rather than temporary, it can also dampen the functioning of the immune system, slowing healing times and making you more vulnerable to infection.
3. Satan: We are living in a wicked world. A lot of sickness could be as a result of direct satanic arrow/demonic remote control and curses from satanic agents.
4.Old Age : Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died(2 Kings 13:14)
When a man grows old,sickness become a natural consequence of the wear and tear his tissues have been subjected to over the years.Though sickness is not compulsory in old age.
5. Carelessness: When you neglect to obey rules of nature, like resting as at when necessary you may become sick. When you use sharp objects to clean your ear or eat uncooked foods you may fall sick.
6. Uncleanness: Poor domestic and personal hygiene practices can help the transmission of disease-causing germs:
7. Bad Habits: There are those who injure their bodies through weakening habits like using liquor, narcotics, body building steroids and tobacco. Many diseases, especially of the heart and liver are directly traceable to the use of these substances.
BIBLE PROMISES OF GOOD HEALTH:Exo 15:26, Deut. 7:5, Isa 53:5, Ps. 91:1-6,10
MEDIUM OF HEALING
1. The Power of God Luke 5:17
A good example is that of the woman with the issue of blood that touched Jesus. In similar manner, God can intervene in any man's affairs and heal him without protocol.
2. The word of God Ps. 107:20, Pro 4:21-22
Hearing / Reading can precipitate healing. A man was reading a book sometimes ago and asthma disappeared.
Gum Disease Treatment in Hialeah Gardens | Biltmore Dental
Your teeth aren't the only things that need attention in your mouth! In order to have a healthy smile, you need to take good care of your gums. Our periodontal services can treat gum disease at various stages. At Biltmore Dental, we offer everything from scaling and root planing to laser treatment.
If you have red, inflamed, swollen or bleeding gums, you may have the early signs and symptoms of gum disease. These can be easy to ignore, but it's important to treat them as early as possible before they become a serious problem. Gum disease, if left untreated, can lead to issues like tooth loss and damage to the jawbone.
Our services are designed to clean plaque, tartar or calculus from below the gum line, to reverse the effects of gum disease, or to prevent further damage or decay. Our dentist can help you determine which treatment is right for you.
At Biltmore Dental, our services for gum disease treatment in Hialeah Gardens include:
Scaling and Root Planing: If gum disease is caught in the earliest stage and hasn't caused damaged the structures below the gum line, a regular cleaning should do. However, if the pockets between your teeth and gums are too deep, scaling and root planing may be recommended. This procedure is often referred to as a "deep cleaning" because it removes the plaque and tartar that has built up below the gum line.
Dental Crown Lengthening: If you have a "gummy" smile, often caused by inflamed gums, a dental crown lengthening can reveal more enamel and give you the smile you'll be proud to show off!
Gingivectomy: This procedure involves the surgical removal of infected gum tissue to allow for healthy gums to reattach to your teeth. This procedure can reverse the effects of periodontal disease.
Laser Treatment: Lasers are the latest technology that periodontists have adopted. Laser treatment can treat infected or inflamed gum tissue by directing lasers directly on to the site of disease.
Pocket Reduction: When gum disease progresses, a "periodontal pocket" may form between your gums and teeth. These pockets are where plaque and tartar may build up, and it is difficult to clean without the help of a dental professional. A pocket reduction will reduce the depth of a periodontal pocket and prevent further plaque or tartar buildup.
Ridge Preservation: When a tooth is extracted, the bone that once supported the tooth may fade since it has no structure to support anymore. A ridge preservation will ensure that this bone tissue stays strong and anatomically sound.
Bone Grafting: Tooth-supporting bone can be lost when you have gum disease. With modern bone grafting-techniques, bone can be built up again. This can benefit both your health and appearance. During a grafting procedure, an incision is made in the gum, and grafting material is added.
To learn more about gum disease treatment in Hialeah Gardens, call Biltmore Dental at (305) 306-1450 for a consultation with your top local dentist.
Drug / Alcohol Detox Centers in Canandaigua, NY - (888) 644-6099
Detox Centers Canandaigua, NY
Drug and Alcohol Detox Centers in Canandaigua, NY
Here are all the drug and alcohol detox centers in Canandaigua, NY. Are you looking to detox from alcohol, opioids, benzodiazepines, cocaine or methamphetamines in a detox facility in Canandaigua? Find substance abuse treatment and rehab centers with detox in Canandaigua below.
Canandaigua Va Medical Center is an alcohol and drug detox center in Canandaigua, NY, located at 400 Fort Hill Avenue, in the 14424 zip code of Ontario County. Canandaigua Va Medical Center provides alcohol detox, opioid detox and meth detox. Canandaigua Va Medical Center also provides residential treatment, outpatient methadone/suboxone treatment and long term inpatient treatment. Canandaigua Va Medical Center can accommodate veterans, adult women and people with co-occurring substance use and pain and also offers brief intervention, substance use counseling and anger management.
Frequently asked questions for Drug & Alcohol Detox in Canandaigua, NY:
How does Canandaigua detox work?
Detox centers in Canandaigua always start treatment with an exam that determines physical and psychological factors that have played a contributing role in an individual's addiction. Once the factors are determined, the rehab facility will create an individualized detox program to help the addicted person get rid of either alcohol or drugs in their body. Often, addiction services such as a faith-based approach for Christians, Catholics or other religious individuals may be combined with the detox program.
Frequently, Canandaigua detox centers will use medication assisted treatment methods to help addicts who struggle with serious drug addiction. Medications that are commonly used include Methadone, Suboxone, Buprenorphine, Naloxone, Disulfiram, Acamprosate, Naltrexone, Lofexidine and Clonidine.
Canandaigua detox centers are equipped to handle all kinds of addictions. Most commonly treated substance abuse issues in New York include addiction to alcohol, as well as drug addictions to various types of drugs such as heroin, cocaine and others, opioids and prescription drugs or painkillers such as Oxycontin, Percocet and other medications that contain oxycodone, morphine, anti-anxiety medication addiction such as Xanax or Valium and various stimulant drug addictions such as Concerta, Adderall, Mydayis and others.
Canandaigua detox centers may be limited to the age groups or populations that they offer treatment to. There are many co-ed detox facilities that will treat both men and women, while there are some men-only or women-only drug and alcohol detox facilities. Also, some detox centers may provide specialized treatment to teenagers, young adults or older adults.
Detox Centers Near Canandaigua, NY
List of all Drug and Alcohol Detox centers in Canandaigua, NY. Find detox facilities in Canandaigua, NY that provide substance abuse treatment and addiction help.
Subject: Ayurvedic perception of Amavata Sat Mar 05, 2011 8:31 am
Every disease is described in terms of imbalance of humours – vata, pitta and kapha – in human body, according to Ayurveda. Arthritis, one of the very prevalent diseases, is also described in such terms by this medical system and thearthritis ayurvedic treatment has proven to be very effective in many.
Ayurveda states that arthritis is caused by accumulation of ama and aggravation of vata. While vata is associated with air, (one of the main elements of nature), ama denotes a toxic byproduct of improper digestion.
`` It is very interesting to know how Ayurveda explains a disease like arthritis. According to ancient texts, the toxic substance gets circulated throughout the body and sometimes deposited in the joints. This situation combined with an imbalance in vata humour results in arthritis. In Ayurveda, this disease is called amavata,'' says Hitha Udayan, an Ayurvedic student.
Ayurvedic remedies mainly focus on controlling these two factors – ama and vata, says Ranjith, another Ayurvedic student. The Ayurvedic therapies focus on digesting the toxic elements as well as reducing the vata. At the same time, therapies will also be conducted to help patients relieve pain and inflammation. Fasting, diet control, body massage with oil, etc will help reduce ama and the pain related to the disease.
Exploring the effects of age on the immune response to Oxford’s COVID-19 vaccine | Babraham Institute
Babraham Institute
Research & Facilities
Discovery science to improve human health and wellbeing
Our Research
Healthy Ageing
Research Groups
Epigenetics
Immunology
Signalling
Open Science
Research Integrity
Animal Research
Annual Research Report
Research Features
Research Publications
Science Facilities
Bioinformatics
Biological Chemistry
Biological Support Unit
Flow Cytometry
Gene Targeting
Genomics
Imaging
Lipidomics
Mass Spectrometry
Work & Study
Supporting people to achieve
Current Vacancies
PhD Programme
Post Doctoral Programme
Short Term Opportunities
Technician Commitment
Training & Support
equality4success
Why Babraham?
Institute Life
Nursery
News & Events
Our latest discoveries and how to hear about our work
Press & the Media
News
Blog
Seminars
Events
Annual Research Report
Research Features
About Us
Securing health through fundamental research
Our Mission
Our Values
Governance and Funding
Sustainability
History
Babraham Research Campus
Contact Us
Discover & Learn
Share our science
Commercialisation
For the Public & Schools
Impact Prizes
Impact on Policy
Video
People
Vacancies
Contact us
Search
News
Exploring the effects of age on the immune response to Oxford’s COVID-19 vaccine
16/12/2020
Exploring the effects of age on the immune response to Oxford’s COVID-19 vaccine
Key points:
A pre-clinical study in mice was used to study the effect of age on the immune response to the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine.
After a weaker response to the initial dose in aged mice, a second dose of vaccine generated an effective immune response.
This fundamental research provides important understanding of the differences in immune system response with respect to age.
These findings agree with the recently released Phase 2 trial data showing two doses are required for younger and older people to have a similar immune response to the vaccine.
During the development of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine by the Oxford Vaccine Group, immunologists at the Babraham Institute undertook a vital assessment of the effects of age on the vaccine’s performance. The research provides the cellular detail of the complex immune response and highlights differences in the immune response in young and aged mice.
The work is published online in Med, a new journal from Cell Press, and presents the research performed in partnership between researchers in the Linterman lab at the Institute – experts on the effects of age on immune system function – and the research team of Teresa Lambe who developed the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine at the University of Oxford’s Jenner Institute.
The global SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has dominated worldwide news during 2020 and affected nearly every aspect of daily life. Since the emergence of the disease, one of the key questions has been about the development of an effective vaccine. Following significant announcements on vaccine efficacy and safety by Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Oxford/AstraZeneca, the UK initiated a phased vaccination programme in the UK earlier this month. As part of this process, and with the prioritisation of older and vulnerable people, it is essential to know that any vaccine performs effectively in older people and protects those at most risk.
“As we get older, our immune system function declines and we become more vulnerable to infectious disease,” explains Dr Michelle Linterman, a Babraham Institute group leader and lead on the research study. “The current pandemic has highlighted how much of a health imbalance this can cause. This work has allowed us to analyse the immune system response to the vaccine at cellular resolution and learn more about how age affects this.”
The Institute team tested the vaccine ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (AZD-1222) in aged mice. The average lifespan of a mouse is two years. The research used mice aged between three months (the mouse equivalent of the prime of life) and 22 months (the mouse equivalent of old age). Despite the fact that ageing in mice and humans happens on different timescales, many of the biological changes that occur in the immune system with age are seen in both mice and humans. Previous research using mice has also shown that strategies to boost immune responses in older mice are also effective in humans.
The Institute researchers found that although a single dose of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine was sufficient to trigger an immune system response in older mice, the response was reduced when compared to the vaccine response in younger adult mice. The research closely analysed the different immune cell types that form the body’s overall ‘surveillance’ system and the cells that specifically identify and kill infected cells.
Following the initial vaccination with a second booster dose one month later enhanced the immune response in older mice, overcoming the deficiency of the first response.
“Stimulating the production of long-lived antibodies is key to securing longer-term immunity,” said Dr Teresa Lambe, Associate Professor & Jenner Investigator, University of Oxford. “While the aged mice initially showed a compromised ability to produce these, a booster dose of the vaccine improved this response.”
The results of the Phase 2 trial of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 were published in The Lancet on the 18th of November. As with the mouse results, the clinical trial data shows that the vaccine is effective at stimulating a strong antibody and T cell immune response across all age groups, including older people, after two doses of the vaccine. Data from a pooled analysis of Phase 3 trials was released on 8th December. Due to only a small number of participants being over 55 years old, it was not possible to assess the vaccination efficiency in older ager groups using this data. The University of Oxford reported that this will be assessed in future analyses as more data from this age group is returned.
Notes to Editors
Publication reference
Silva-Cayetano, A., Foster, W.S. & Innocentin, S. et al.
A booster dose enhances immunogenicity of the COVID-19 vaccine candidate ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 in aged mice.
Med.
DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.medj.2020.12.006
Published 15 December 2020.
Press contact
Dr Louisa Wood, Communications Manager, louisa.wood@babraham.ac.uk
About the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 clinical trials
See the information on coronavirus research at the University of Oxford: Oxford ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 clinical trials and press announcements on their Oxford vaccine trial website.
Image description
Confocal microscopy image of the spleen nine days after ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 immunisation in an aged mouse (22 months old). The image shows immunofluorescence staining to identify different classes of immune cell: IgD+ B cell follicle in green, CD3+ T cells in magenta, Ki67+ proliferating cells in blue and CD35+ follicular dendritic cells in white. Image: Sigrid Fra-Bido, Babraham Institute.
Affiliated authors (in author order):
Alyssa Silva-Cayetano, postdoctoral researcher, Linterman lab
William Foster, postdoctoral researcher, Linterman lab
Silvia Innocentin, research assistant, Linterman lab
Oliver Burton, senior postdoctoral researcher, Liston lab
Sigrid Fra-Bidó, research assistant, Linterman lab
Jia Le Lee, PhD student, Linterman lab
Nicola Evans-Bailey, animal unit supervisor, animal facility
Carly Noble, animal facility manager, animal facility
Adrian Liston, group leader, Immunology research programme
Michelle Linterman, group leader, Immunology research programme
Research funding
This study was supported by strategic funding to the Institute from the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, and funding from the Lister institute of Preventative Medicine, the EPSRC VaxHub and Innovate UK. Michelle Linterman is an EMBO Young Investigator and a Lister Institute Prize Fellow. Jia Le Lee is supported by a National Science Scholarship (PhD) by the Agency for Science, Technology and Research, Singapore.
Additional/related resources:
News, 6 May 2020 The Babraham Institute’s contribution to the COVID-19 response
News, 26 March 2020 How to boost immune response to vaccines in older people
News, 4 June, 2019 Could boosting the gut microbiome be the secret to healthier older age?
Animal research statement:
As a publicly funded research institute, the Babraham Institute is committed to engagement and transparency in all aspects of its research. The research presented here used mice in vaccination studies. Mice were vaccinated and humanely killed at various timepoints post vaccination to provide tissue and blood for analysis.
All mouse experimentation was approved by the Babraham Institute Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body. Animal husbandry and experimentation complied with existing European Union and United Kingdom Home Office legislation and local standards.
Please follow the link for further details of our animal research and our animal welfare practices.
About the Babraham Institute
The Babraham Institute undertakes world-class life sciences research to generate new knowledge of biological mechanisms underpinning ageing, development and the maintenance of health. Our research focuses on cellular signalling, gene regulation and the impact of epigenetic regulation at different stages of life. By determining how the body reacts to dietary and environmental stimuli and manages microbial and viral interactions, we aim to improve wellbeing and support healthier ageing. The Institute is strategically funded by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), part of UK Research and Innovation, through an Institute Core Capability Grant and also receives funding from other UK research councils, charitable foundations, the EU and medical charities.
About BBSRC
The Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) is part of UK Research and Innovation, a non-departmental public body funded by a grant-in-aid from the UK government.
BBSRC invests in world-class bioscience research and training on behalf of the UK public. Our aim is to further scientific knowledge, to promote economic growth, wealth and job creation and to improve quality of life in the UK and beyond.
Funded by government, BBSRC invested £451 million in world-class bioscience in 2019-20. We support research and training in universities and strategically funded institutes. BBSRC research and the people we fund are helping society to meet major challenges, including food security, green energy and healthier, longer lives. Our investments underpin important UK economic sectors, such as farming, food, industrial biotechnology and pharmaceuticals.
Liptruzet | definition of Liptruzet by Medical dictionary
https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Liptruzet
Dictionary, Encyclopedia and Thesaurus - The Free Dictionary 12,989,284,965 visitors served
(redirected from Liptruzet)
[ah-tor″vah-stat´in]
an agent that inhibits cholesterol synthesis, used as the calcium salt in treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia and hyperlipidemia; administered orally.
A statin, (C33H34FN2O5)2Ca·3H2O, that blocks the body's synthesis of cholesterol and is used to treat hyperlipidemia.
Lipitor® Cardiology A cholesterol-lowering HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor or statin which improves the lipid profile–↓ 35% to 60% LDL-C; ↓TGs 20–37%;↑ 5–9% HDL-C Adverse effects Liver dysfunction, rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure 2º to myoglobinuria, constipation, flatulence, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, myalgia, weakness. See AVERT, Statin.
A cholesterol-lowering drug. A brand name is Lipitor. See STATINS.
<a href="https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Liptruzet">atorvastatin</a>
LIPTRUZET (ezetimibe and atorvastatin) will be available for wholesalers to order in the week of 6 May 2013.
Merck's LIPTRUZET approved by US FDA
One analyst opined that the FDA would not have approved Liptruzet if there were indications of worrisome signs with the Improve-It trial.
And given that Merck needs to boost revenue, it is unlikely Liptruzet will offer a cost advantage, which means the pill will really offer no advantage at all.
Unlike so many other instances when a drug is approved, the agency this time did not release a statement explaining its rationale for endorsing Liptruzet. This was a classic instance in which the lack of explanation allowed criticism to fill the void--and the criticism was stinging.
Instead, the Liptruzet approval has now prompted speculation that the agency has become too concerned with a "numbers game," reflecting increased pressure from the pharma industry and its allies in Congress, who expect to see tangible results for the increased user fees that drug makers pay each year for the drug review process.
The agency had a regulatory obligation to review Liptruzet and the pill, presumably, passed the necessary hurdles.
(Yes, that was another Merck drug.) Since then, the FDA has worked hard to restore its image as a worthy watchdog, but the Liptruzet approval may erode any perceived gains.
Medical cannabis safer for elderly with chronic pain than opioids
Medical cannabis significantly safer for elderly with chronic pain than opioids
Posted: 14 February 2018 | Dr Zara Kassam (European Pharmaceutical Review) | No comments yet
Researchers have found that cannabis therapy is safe and efficacious for elderly patients who are seeking to address cancer symptoms, Parkinson's disease, Crohn's disease and other medical issues…
Medical cannabis therapy can significantly reduce chronic pain in patients age 65 and older without adverse effects, according to researchers at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev (BGU) and the Cannabis Clinical Research Institute at Soroka University Medical Center.
The new study found that cannabis therapy is safe and efficacious for elderly patients who are seeking to address cancer symptoms, Parkinson's disease, post-traumatic stress disorder, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis, and other medical issues.
"While older patients represent a large and growing population of medical cannabis users, few studies have addressed how it affects this particular group, which also suffers from dementia, frequent falls, mobility problems, and hearing and visual impairments," says Victor Novack, a Professor of Medicine in the BGU Faculty of Health Sciences (FOHS), and head of the Soroka Cannabis Clinical Research Institute.
"After monitoring patients 65 and older for six months, we found medical cannabis treatment significantly relieves pain and improves quality of life for seniors with minimal side effects reported."
This older population represents a growing segment of medical cannabis users, ranging from approximately seven percent to more than 33 percent, depending on the country. Recent U.S. polls indicate Americans over 65 represent 14 percent of the total population and use more than 30 percent of all prescription drugs, including highly addictive painkillers.
BGU researchers surveyed 2,736 patients 65 years and older who received medical cannabis through "Tikun Olam," the largest Israeli medical cannabis supplier. More than 60 percent were prescribed medical cannabis due to the pain, particularly pain associated with cancer. After six months of treatment, more than 93 percent of 901 respondents reported their pain dropped from a median of eight to four on a 10-point scale. Close to 60 percent of patients who originally reported "bad" or "very bad" quality of life upgraded to "good" or "very good" after six months. More than 70 percent of patients surveyed reported moderate to significant improvement in their condition.
The most commonly reported adverse effects were dizziness (9.7 percent) and dry mouth (7.1 percent). After six months, more than 18 percent of patients surveyed had stopped using opioid analgesics or had reduced their dosage.
All patients received a prescription after consulting with a doctor who prescribed treatment. More than 33 percent of patients used cannabis-infused oil; approximately 24 percent inhaled therapy by smoking, and approximately six percent used vaporisation.
While the researchers state their findings to date indicate cannabis may decrease dependence on prescription medicines, including opioids, more evidence-based data from this special, ageing population is imperative.
The study has been published in the European Journal of Internal Medicine.
Cannabinoids, Clinical Development
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev (BGU), Cannabis Clinical Research Institute, Soroka Cannabis Clinical Research Institute, Tikun Olam
Victor Novack
Crohn's disease (CD), Multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, post-traumatic stress disorder, Ulcerative colitis (UC)
KOHC 2019 Annual Meeting Recap – Kentucky Oral Health Coalition
KOHC 2019 Annual Meeting Recap
By Kentucky Oral Health Coalition|2019-12-17T12:12:25-05:00December 11th, 2019|Blog|
Kentucky Oral Health Coalition members and oral health stakeholders from across the state came together for the 2019 Kentucky Oral Health Coalition annual meeting on Friday, December 6. We kicked off the meeting with an outstanding keynote speaker, Rebekah Fiehn. Rebekah is the Healthcare Data Exchange Specialist at the DentaQuest Partnership for Oral Health Advancement. Rebekah spoke about teledentistry on a national level and the trends the oral health community is seeing on the use of technology in practice across the nation.
In addition to our keynote speaker, a panel of four oral health professionals were able to answer questions and discuss the teledentistry movement and what it means for Kentucky. The panel members were Dr. William Lee, immediate Past President of the Kentucky Dental Association, Dr. Julie McKee, Kentucky's Dental Director with the Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Dr. Jerry Caudill, State Dental Director at Avesis, and Jennifer Hasch, legislative chair and head delegate at the Kentucky Dental Hygiene Association. Read more about teledentistry.
Mahak Kalra, Policy Director at Kentucky Youth Advocates, presented legislative and budget policies of interest to KOHC members followed by voting from members. KOHC is supportive of the Blueprint for Kentucky's Children health policy and budget priorities, including enacting a tax on e-cigarettes, prohibiting tobacco sale to anyone under age 21, investing in tobacco cessation and prevention programs, strengthening healthy eating and drinking standards in licensed child care centers, and boosting investment in Family Resource and Youth Service Centers. Learn more about the 2020 Blueprint agenda and find resources.
Laura Wince and Kara Farris of Delta Dental provided an overview of the collaboration with the Kosair Charities® Face It Movement, which aims to engage, equip, and educate Kentucky's oral health community in recognizing and reporting child abuse and neglect.
Jennifer Hasch presented to the group about the Oral Health Progress and Equity Network (OPEN), introducing the network as a resource for dental professionals and providing insight into the importance of networking nationwide for oral health initiatives.
Mahak Kalra closed the meeting with an open discussion of member updates, a recap of the accomplishments of the KOHC in 2019 and a statement about the next steps for this group in 2020.
Thank you to Avesis and Passport Health Plan for sponsoring KOHC's annual meeting. Thank you to our presenters, KOHC members, and guests who made our 2019 annual meeting a success!
