80M Baby Boomers and the Increase in Lab Tests – Pathagility
80M Baby Boomers and the Increase in Lab Tests
80M Baby Boomers and the…
Pathagility was in New Orleans last week for The Dark Report's Executive War College on Laboratory and Pathology Management. Robert Michel, Editor in Chief of The Dark Report, opened the event with a presentation entitled: Lab Medicine's Appointment with Destiny: Skyrocketing Utilization, Inadequate Funding, and the Incredible Clinical Value of Laboratory Tests. In his address to the attendees Mr. Michel highlighted the upcoming wave (the "Silver Tsunami") of baby boomers hitting the age of retirement. Senior's impact on our country's health care system include but are not limited to lab testing.
Cited from U.S. Census data:
17% are over the age of 65
26.4% of the American population are "baby boomers"
In 2010 every hour 360 "baby boomers" reach 64 years old.
Currently every American under the age of 65 averages 2 lab tests per year. The population of 65+ average over 9 lab tests per year. 80 million "baby boomers" reaching retirement will equate to 80,000,000 X 9 lab tests per year.
The overall health of United States citizens and other countries is on the decline and chronic conditions (i.e. obesity) are on the increase.
Increased taxes on medical suppliers and providers added to lower reimbursements will further strain the industry. Access to tests due to the flood of demand will be of concern. Perhaps the only sure bet is that the healthcare debate is just getting started, and one question begs to be answered: Can innovation and increased competition lead to increased efficiencies to thwart declines in the quality and access to care?
Hadassah And MyBiotics To Collaborate For The Discovery Of Microbiome-Based Therapy For Improving Cancer Immunotherapy - TheStreet
Apr 6, 2021 5:05 AM EDT
REHOVOT and JERUSALEM , Israel, April 6, 2021 /PRNewswire/ -- MyBiotics Pharma Ltd., a microbiome therapeutics company, and Hadasit Medical Research Services and Development Ltd., the technology transfer office of Hadassah Medical Center, announced today that they have entered into a research collaboration and licensing agreement for the identification of microbiome-based therapeutics that will enhance the response to and reduce adverse effects of anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 in melanoma patients.
Tsipi HaitovskyGlobal Media LiaisonMyBiotics+972-52-5989-892 mybioticspr@mybiotix.com
Hadar Elboimspokeswoman Hadassah Medical Organization+972-2-6776079 hadare@hadassah.org.il
View original content: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hadassah-and-mybiotics-to-collaborate-for-the-discovery-of-microbiome-based-therapy-for-improving-cancer-immunotherapy-301261954.html
Approved by the FDA in 1991, Zoloft is a prescription anti-depressant in the class of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Zoloft's main active ingredient, sertraline, works to create a greater chemical balance within the brain. This balance is achieved by preventing nerves from absorbing the serotonin that is naturally released in the body, which allows the serotonin to carry on its normal function.
Manufactured by Pfizer, Zoloft is prescribed to tens of millions of patients in the US each year. While SSRIs are popular among patients with common mood disorders, Zoloft and other SSRIs have been linked to severe side effects.
The primary concerns relating to SSRIs involve use by children, adolescents, and expectant mothers.
In 2004, the FDA required an amendment to all SSRI labeling to include a black box warning of worsening suicidality (thoughts and/or actions), especially for patients under the age of 25.
The link between SSRIs, like Zoloft, and birth defects is so strong that the FDA released a public statement in 2011 regarding SSRI use among pregnant women. This statement was prompted by emerging research connecting SSRIs to a severe cardiac and respiratory condition in newborns (persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn).
Why young refugees face challenges | The National Tribune
4 Mar 2021 1:30 pm AEST Date Time
New research has revealed the obstacles young African migrants face when adapting to life in Australia – with significant barriers leading to high rates of alcohol consumption and poor mental health outcomes often caused by efforts to assimilate in new communities.
The study, published in The International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, focused on the traumatic impacts of losing family members and social disruption in their countries of origin, with African migrants and young refugees then experiencing stress related to inadequate socioeconomic and cultural support, discrimination, poverty and unemployment upon their arrival in Australia.
The researchers highlight the immediate need for interventions which address lack of employment opportunities and culturally unsafe service provisions to effectively support the migration groups.
Lead author Associate Professor Lillian Mwanri says participants who arrived in Australia as unaccompanied minors, following extended stays in refugee camps with poor basic nutritional, educational, or recreational services, faced a poor start to their new life as a result of their past experiences.
"This paper is part of a larger study that explored determinants of suicide amongst African youth in South Australia. A combination of social and peer pressure, vulnerability, and complexities of their social deprivation could influence and contribute to substance use, ultimately leading to poor social and health outcomes."
"As a result of adapting to their new society, there was a consensus amongst the study participants that African migrant youths were conflicted, and their effort to fit in led to adverse outcomes, including alcohol abuse and mental health issues."
The researchers undertook in depth interviews with 23 participants and established a focus group with eight participants to better understand the factors impacting their lives in Australia since migrating.
"Recognising these issues calls for interventions that address the underlying social determinants of health amongst young African migrants which foster distress including addressing employment opportunities and culturally unsafe services to provide effective support services and improve their mental health and wellbeing."
The participants also believed that differences in cultural perspectives about alcohol use that exist in Africa and Australia also shaped their negative experiences.
"Alcohol use amongst African migrant youth may be a challenging behaviour because of conflicting attitudes between African and Australian cultures regarding their use. In Africa, alcohol use by youths is restricted and often carry severe consequences, whereas it is socially accepted in Australia. Previous studies have supported the assimilation process as facilitators shaping the behaviours of migrants."
The study findings have broadened the cultural resource, knowledge and provide important information for Mental health service providers to provide quality mental health services to African and other young refugees from across the world resettling in Australia.
"Additionally, youths can be empowered through targeted initiatives to become ambassadors and agents of change in their communities."
"Alcohol, Other Drugs Use and Mental Health among African Migrant Youths in South Australia. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2021, 18(4), 1534 DOI: https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph18041534
Regulatory decisions PowerPoint (PPT) Presentations, Regulatory decisions PPTs - SlideServe
'Regulatory decisions' presentation slideshows
Regulatory decisions - PowerPoint PPT Presentation
DV-DMDG Meeting Feedback from EBF on ICH M10
DV-DMDG Meeting Feedback from EBF on ICH M10 S cope – Cross/partial validation – DM - Documentation Philip Timmerman, EBF Langhorne, 31 July 2019. Disclaimer.
Transition to ICD- 10
Transition to ICD- 10. Presented by: Pat Schmitter CPC CPC-I Approved AAPC ICD-10-CM Trainer Approved AHIMA ICD-10-CM Trainer & Ambassador Sr Healthcare Consultant VEI Consulting www.Icdexpert.net. Brace for Change!. Disclaimer.
Marcus Weinkopf, Deutsche Telekom
Marcus Weinkopf, Deutsche Telekom. Regulatory Challenges of Next Generation Networks Regulatory Policy Institute Annual Competition and Regulation Conference 2008 Oxford, 15 th & 16 th September 2008. Output: 3000 Liter p.a. Cost-Based Price Regulation: Basics. Regulator fixes
Sustainable development in mining. Mark Holmes Program Officer - Environment, Health & Safety. A complete suite of tools?. ICMM member companies. BHP Billiton Lihir Gold MMG. Australia. African Rainbow Minerals AngloGold Ashanti Gold Fields. South Africa. Vale. Brazil. Xstrata.
NRCan/GSC 2011 update for CCCESD
NRCan/GSC 2011 update for CCCESD. November 17, 2011. NRCan's Mandate, Vision, and Strategic Outcomes …. Mandate Enhance the responsible development and use of Canada's natural resources and the competitiveness of Canada's natural resource products Vision
Francesca Cerreta EMA (European Medicines Agency)
6 th European Patients' Rights Day The EMA Geriatric Medicines Strategy and the empowered aging patient. Francesca Cerreta EMA (European Medicines Agency). Marketing Authorisation - Key Principles. The EU is a Single Market for pharmaceuticals - approx. 0.5 billion people.
Joint Agreement on Regulatory Issues
Joint Agreement on Regulatory Issues. Glenn Vanselow Pacific Northwest Waterways Association Eric Johnson Washington Public Ports Association October 13, 2009 Vancouver, Washington. Joint Agreement on Regulatory Issues.
Challenges faced by a newly independent regulatory body in maintaining regulatory independence
Challenges faced by a newly independent regulatory body in maintaining regulatory independence Presented at the 7th Annual Meeting of NERS September 23-24, 2004 IAEA HQ, Vienna - Austria. REGULATORY INDEPENDENCE.
Views of a global operator on dispute settlement processes
Views of a global operator on dispute settlement processes. TRAI Session, New Delhi Gordon Moir, Vice President and Chief Counsel BT Global Services. CONTENT. Why it matters? Investment and regulatory certainty Models of dispute settlement and core principles of a successful regime.
Lecture 3: Statistical Mechanics of Gene Regulation
Lecture 3: Statistical Mechanics of Gene Regulation. Rob Phillips California Institute of Technology. (Schulten et al .). (Small et al .). How Big is a Genome?. "The Great Polymer Languages". A Reminder on DNA: One of the "Great Polymer Languages". The Meaning of a Terabyte.
RR-TAG Liaison Report September 2008 IEEE 802.11-802.18
RR-TAG Liaison Report September 2008 IEEE 802.11-802.18. Date: 2008-9-10. Authors:. IEEE 802.18 Proceedings. This Week Update on the WP5D meeting in Korea Developing criteria for review of IMT-Advanced contributions Heard a presentation re: RTCA SC-202
Securities & Investment Institute Compliance Forum
Securities & Investment Institute Compliance Forum. 19 September 2007 Lesley Titcomb Director - FSA Regulatory Transactions Division. Agenda. Introduction Regulatory Transactions Divisions Areas of Responsibility MiFID The Future Questions. Areas of Responsibility.
By xaviera-lagunas
National Pesticide Program A New Toxicology Testing Paradigm: Meeting Common Needs
Steven Bradbury, Director Environmental Fate and Effects Division Office of Pesticide Programs US Environmental Protection Agency. National Pesticide Program A New Toxicology Testing Paradigm: Meeting Common Needs. National Pesticide Program MISSION.
By julioballard
View Regulatory decisions PowerPoint (PPT) presentations online in SlideServe. SlideServe has a very huge collection of Regulatory decisions PowerPoint presentations. You can view or download Regulatory decisions presentations for your school assignment or business presentation. Browse for the presentations on every topic that you want.
Adolescent Health – Uphams' Corner Health Center
The Upham's Corner Adolescent Health Department is committed to providing teens and young adults with services to meet their health care needs.
Since 1996, our services have been designed to meet the most prevalent health and social service needs of teenagers. As children approach their teen age years they may no longer feel comfortable seeing their pediatrician or having a parent in the exam room with them. That is why we have a team of providers dedicated to the developing teen and addressing the unique health and social issues they may face.
Our staff includes a physician, nurse practitioner and social worker who are specifically trained to identify, understand, and address the needs of our adolescent patients.
We currently offer adolescents comprehensive medical care, including:
Confidential patient visits
Management of episodic and chronic illness
Sexual health services (including family planning, STD testing and STD treatment)
Referrals are made for services we cannot provide. We also aim to collaborate with other agencies providing services to adolescents.
All adolescents can receive care at the health center whether or not they have insurance. The staff will guide those without insurance by providing help in applying for health insurance. We can see patients who are without insurance but need confidential services or HIV/STD testing.
Zax is a senior dog dumped at the shelter at the end of his life.
Where do I begin? This poor boy is senior Zax. He found himself at a Georgia kill shelter with this huge infected, open wound. To think he has lived so long as someones pet then dumped at the end of his life makes my heart break. We are not sure what happened to this poor dog. It could be a chemical burn or something else.
The wound was oozing and they had to drain it at the shelter. Shelter staff sent out a plea for help. Volunteers from our partners at Rescue Dogs Rock rushed to the shelter to transport Zax to an emergency vet. He is in ICU.
RDR spoke to their veterinary partners this morning in regards to Zax. He continues to be in a lot of pain and his wound will probably require more intervention, cleaning and removal of tissue. He still cannot stand up, though he tries.
To be clear, he is on heavy pain medications, antibiotics, and an anti-inflammatory. He has around the clock care by doctors and staff. He is as comfortable as they can make him safely. Please continue to send him positive healing energy, prayers and good wishes.
We have partnered with RDR to help raise the funds they need to save Zax. His care will cost over 7,000 including emergency care and any surgeries he will need. That is not the type of funds rescuers have.
To help save Zax please consider purchasing one of his shirts, totes, bracelets and coffee mugs below. We have partnered with RDR to create these animal saving products to raise the funds needed to save him.
Atlas surgical site infection by HIRANGER 5552 views
The Surgical Checklist and Beyond by NHSScotlandEvent 2361 views
Anatomy of the New Evidence-Rated A... by Association of pe... 9793 views
Recommended Practices for Surgical ... by Association of pe... 25655 views
Atlas scrub nurse by RAJESH EAPEN 5025 views
The Surgical Safety Checklist; Rhet... by Canadian Patient ... 3066 views
, medical student & tutor at hospital tengku ampuan rahimah klang & Pusat Tuisyen Get A
prepoerative and post operative care
make your breasts bigger without surgery! NO PILLS NO CREAMS 100% NATURAL. FIND out more now! ✱✱✱ https://dwz1.cc/c0uELUMU
Leptitox Upto 70% Off | $39 Only? ★★★ https://t.cn/A6wnCpvk
Do home based gout remedies actually work?  https://url.cn/5sAm1gG
revathivadaddi
Uncanny Petrichor
Sathish S , Master Student at Saveetha Medical College And Hospital at Saveetha Medical College And Hospital
1. PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND POSTOPERATIVE CARE
2. PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION HAZMAN NORMAN 012013051891
3. OVERVIEW • PATIENT ASSESSMENT • RISK ASSESSMENT AND CONSENT • ARRANGING THE THEATRE LIST
4. PATIENT ASSESSMENT • Aims: – look actively at risks – proper management of risks – enabling safe surgery • Usually done by surgical team, nursing team and anaesthetic team • Standard history taking
5. • Proper physical examination • Investigations needed (NICE guidelines) • Airway assessment and evaluation
6. RISK ASSESSMENT AND CONSENT • ASA classification • Explain on the advantages, side effects and, and prognosis • Taking comprehensive valid consent – given voluntarily by a competent and informed person
7. ARRANGING THE THEATRE LIST • Confirm it is the right date, time, and place of operation • Personnel availability • Appropriate equipment and instruments should be made available • Operating list should be distributed early • Priorities to children, diabetic patients, cancer patients, and life threatening patients
8. BEFORE THEATRE • Must be seen by anaesthetist and operating surgeon in charge • Keep in view for specific requirement • Arrange the theatre list appropriately
9. SURGICAL SAFETY CHECKLIST Introduced by WHO in 2008, a guideline recommended practices to reduce rate of preventable surgical complications and death worldwide. • Prelist briefing • Sign in • Antibiotic • Monitoring • Operating theatre environment • Diathermy • Torniquets • Time outs • Temperature control • Hair removal • Glycaemic control • Infection control
10. SCRUBBING UP • Process of washing of hands and arms and putting on gloves and gown • 2 standard scrub solutions include -2% chlorhexidine -7.5% povidone-iodine -alcohol
11. • Hat, mask and eye protection should be worn and jewellery should be removed • Nails and deep skin crease should be clean for 1-2 mins using brush • Hands and forearms wash systematically 3 times • Hands and arms are dried from distal to proximal using sterile towel • Folded gown lifted away from trolley, allowed to unfold • Arms inserted into armholes, hands remain inside gowns until gloves are donned, secure the gown • Gloves are put on, hands remain above waist level at all times.
12. REFERENCES • BAILEY AND LOVE'S 26TH EDITION • OXFORD HANDBOOK OF CLINICAL MEDICINE 8TH EDITION
13. SPECIFIC PREOPERATIVE PROBLEMS , REFERRALS AND MANAGEMENT SURENTHIRAN 012010090079
14. INTRODUCTION OPreoperative problems – certain specific medical conditions encountered during preoperative assessment OShould be corrected to the best possible level to eliminate serious complications OPatients with severe disease will need to be referred to specialists and the referral letter should include all the details ( history , examination and investigation results ).
15. Preoperative management of patients with systemic disease  CAPACITY : baseline organ function capacity should be assessed  OPTIMISATION : Medication, lifestyle changes, specialist referral will improve organ capacity  ALTERNATIVE : Minimally impacting procedure , appropriate postoperative care will improve outcomes  THEATRE PREPARATIONS : Timing, teamwork , special instruments and equipment
16. OCARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE OHYPERTENSION, IHD AND STENTS ODYSRHYTHMIAS OVALVULAR HEART DISEASE OANAEMIA AND BLOOD TRANSFUSION ORESPIRATORY DISEASE OGASTROINTESTINAL DISEASE
17. CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE OIdentify patients who have a high preoperative risk of MI and make arrangements to reduce the risk OInclude those who have suffered coronary artery disease, CCF , arrhythmias , severe peripheral vascular disease , CVD or renal failure OPatients with IHD – left ventricular status can be evaluated using a stress test
18. O Patients with symptomatic valvular heart disease or poor left ventricular function – an echo should be performed (ejection fraction less than 30% - poor outcomes) O Referred to cardiologist if : - murmur heard and patient is symptomatic - poor left ventricular function or cardiomegaly - ischaemic changes on ECG even if patient is not symptomatic (silent MI) - abnormal rhythm on ECG , tachy/bradycardia or a heart block
19. HYPERTENSION , IHD AND STENTS OPrior to surgery blood pressure should be controlled to 160/90 mmHg OStabilisation period of 2 weeks if new antihypertensive is introduced OPatients with angina – investigated further by a cardiologist if not well controlled - some may need thrombolysis , stents or bypass surgery prior to non-cardiac surgery
20. OPatients who have had stents inserted for IHD, should be asked for the effectiveness of the treatment and concurrent antiplatelet medication (clopidogrel and/or aspirin) ORisk of stent thrombosis with consequences of MI and death is reduced if elective surgery is postponed until after dual antiplatelet therapy is stopped OIf cannot be postponed and risk of perioperative bleeding is low – dual antiplatelet therapy can be continued during surgery
21. DYSRHYTHMIAS OPatients with atrial fibrillation -B-blockers, digoxin and CCB started preoperatively - warfarin stopped 5 days preoperatively OImplanted pacemaker and cardiac defibrillator checks and appropriate reprogramming done OSymptomatic heart blocks and asymptomatic second and third degree heart blocks need cardiology consultation
22. VALVULAR HEART DISEASE O Patients with severe mitral and aortic stenosis may benefit from valvuloplasty before elective non-cardiac surgery O Patients with mechanical heart valves- - warfarin stopped 5 days prior to surgery and infusion of unfractionated heparin ( INR <1.5) - APTT kept at 1.5 times normal and stopped 2 hours before surgery - Heparin and warfarin postoperatively and heparin stopped once full effect of warfarin realised
23. ANAEMIA AND BLOOD TRANSFUSION OAnaemic at preoperative assessment treated with iron and vitamin supplements OChronic anaemia well tolerated in the perioperative period O if major procedure, preoperative transfusion if Hb below 8g/dL
24. RESPIRATORY DISEASE OCurrent respiratory status should be compared with their normal state ORegular treatment, PEFR , steroids use , CPAP should be taken note of OEncourage patients to be compliant with medications, exercise , consume balanced diet and stop smoking
25. REFER TO RESPIRATORY PHYSICIANS IF : - Severe disease or significant deterioration from usual condition - Major surgery is planned in a patient with significant respiratory comorbidities - Right heart failure is present - Patient is young with COPD
26. O Smoking : provide information regarding perioperative risks associated with smoking O Asthma : establish severity of asthma, PEFR , precipitating causes, frequency of steroid and bronchodilator use and any previous intensive care unit admission. Use regular inhalers until the start of anaesthesia O COPD : Patients with significant COPD who are undergoing major surgery will need to be referred to physicians to optimise their condition. ABG also useful O Infections : elective surgery postponed if chest infection. Treated with antibiotics and operation rescheduled after 4-6 weeks.
27. GASTROINTESTINAL DISEASE Nil by mouth and regular medications - Not to take solids within 6 hours and fluids within 2 hours before anaesthetic - Infants allowed a clear drink up to 2 hours , mother's milk up to 3 hours and cow or formula milk up to 6 hours before anaes - If surgery delayed, oral (until 2 hours of surgery) or IV fluids started in the vulnerable group of patients
28. Regurgitation risk - High risk of pulmonary aspiration if patients with hiatus hernia, obesity, pregnancy and diabetes - Antacids, H2-receptor blockers or PPI given Liver disease - Cause of the disease , clotting problems, renal involvement and encephalopathy should be known - LFT, coagulation , blood glucose, urea and electrolyte levels - Ascitis, hypoalbuminaemia, sodium and water retention should be noted
29. THANK YOU….. (but to be continue…)
30. SPECIFIC PREOPERATIVE PROBLEMS , REFERRALS AND MANAGEMENT (2) BY : M.Krishnavaathi 012011100086
31. Genitourinary disease 1) Renal disease - Diabetes mellitus, hypertension and ischemia heart disease should be stabilised ( leading to chronic renal failure ) - Apporiate measures to treat acidosis, hypocalcemia and hyperkalemia > 6mmol/L - Continue peritoneal or hemodialysis until a few hours before surgery - Blood sample sent for FBC and U & E ( after final dialysis before surgery ) - Chronic renal failure patients often suffer chronic microcytic anemia that is well tolerated - Acute renal failure can present with acute surgical problems ; eg bowel obstruction needing emergency surgery ( simultaneous medical , surgery treatments and critical care unit )
32. 2) Urinary tract infection - Uncomplicated urinary infections are common in female - Outflow uropathy with chronically infected urine is common in men - For elective surgery * infection should be treated because it carries dire consequences eg joint replacements - For emergency surgery * give antibiotics, ensure good urine output before, during and after surgery
33. Endocrine and metabolic disorders 1 ) Malnutrition - BMI < 18.5 kg/m2 ( nutritional impairment ) - BMI < 15 kg/m2 ( significant hospital mortality ) - Nutritional support for 2 weeks before surgery 2) Obesity - Advice on healthy eating and taking regular exercise - Use CPAP device for obstructive sleep apnea and cholesterol reducing agents - If possible, delay surgery until patients more active and lost weight. - Preventative measures for acid aspiration , DVT and associated risks explained prior to surgery
34. 3) Diabetes mellitus - Check HbA1c level - Start lipid lowering medication in high risk group of cardiovascular complications of diabetes - Morning operation { advice to omit morning dose medication and breakfast, tight control of blood sugar not needed }, check blood sugar for every 2 hrs - Afternoon operation { breakfast + half regular dose of insulin or full dose of oral anti – diabetics, check blood sugar for every 2 hrs - Intravenous insulin sliding for insulin dependent diabetes mellitus undergoing major surgery or if blood sugar difficult to control for other reason 4 ) Adrenocortical suppression - Ask oral adrenocortical steroid dose and duration to avoid Addisonian crisis
35. Coagulation disorders 1) Thrombophilia - Thrombophylaxis needed if present of risk factors Risk factors for thrombosis - Increasing age - Significant medical comorbidities (particularly malignancy) - Trauma or surgery (especially of the abdomen, pelvis and lower limbs) - Pregnancy/puerperium - Immobility (including a lower limb plaster) - Obesity - Family/personal history of thrombosis - Drugs (e.g. oestrogen, smoking)
36. - Hormone replacement therapy ( HRT ) should be stopped 6 weeks prior to surgery - Low risk patients can be given thromboembolism deterrent stockings - Give warfarin for patients with high risk patients with history of recurrent DVT, pulmonary embolism and arterial thrombosis - Stop warfarin before surgery and replaced with low molecular weight heparin or factor Xa inhibitor Neurological and psychiatry disorders - History of stroke, pre existing neurological deficit patients may be on antiplatelet or anticoagulants. - Low risk of cardiovascular thrombosis, antiplatelet withdrawn ( 7days for aspirin, 10 days for clopidogrel ) - High risk patients, use aspirin alone - Anticonvulsant and antiparkinson continued to help early mobilization - Stop lithium 24 hours prior to surgery, measure blood level to avoid toxicity - Inform anaesthetist if psychiatric medications such tricyclic antidepressants or monoamine oxidase inhibitors to avoid drug interactions.
37. Musculoskeletal and other disorders - Rheumoid arthritis , flexion and extension lateral cervical spine x ray should be taken. ( lead to unstable cervical spine with spinal cord injurt during intubation ) - Rheumatologist will advice on steroids and disease modifying drugs so as to balance immunosuppression against need to stabilise disease preoperatively - In ankylosing spondylitis, technique of spinal or epidural anaesthesia often challenging - Patients with systemic lupus erthematosis may exhibit hypercoagulable state along with airway difficult Airway assessment Samsoon and Young modified Mallampati test Fauces, pillars, soft palate and uvula seen Grade 1 Fauces, soft palate with some part of uvula seen Grade 2 Soft palate seen Grade 3 Hard palate only seen Grade 4
38. - Patient's mouth open and tongue protruding - Higher the grade, higher the risk in obtaining and securing airways - Look for loose teeth, obvious tumors, scars, infections, obesity, thickness of neck which will indicate difficulty in obtaining airway - Modified Mallampati class - Jaw protrusion, neck movement and thyromental distance
39. Preoperative assessment in emergency surgery - Start similar principle to that for elective surgery - Constraints : time, facilities available - Consent : may be not be possible in life saving emergencies - Organisational efforts : for example, local/ national algorithms for treatment of multi-trauma patients
40. GENERAL MANAGEMENT AND SYSTEM SPECIFIC POST-OPE COMPLICATION SABRINA TAMILMANY
41. PURPOSES To enable a successful and faster recovery of the patient post operatively. To reduce post operative mortality rate. To reduce the length of hospital stay of the patient. To provide quality care service. To reduce hospital and patient cost during post operative period.
43. WHAT IS NEEDED?  the immediate recovery and requires to detect early signs of complication.  Receive a complete patient record from the operating room which to plan post operative care. Patient's name •Age •Surgical procedure •Existing medical problem •Allergies •Aneasthetic & analgesics given •Fluid replacement •Blood loss •Urine output •Any surgical/ anaesthetic problems encountered
44. Assessing the patient  Monitor vitals-pulse volume and regularity, depth and nature of respiration.  Assessment of patient's O2 saturation.
45. KEEP MONITORING VITALS
46. • Check the level of consciousness. Ability to respond to commands.
47. MAINTAIN INTAKE AND OUTPUT
48. PROTECT AIRWAY  By proper positioning of patient's head.  By clearing airway.  Oxygen therapy.
49. Maintaining IV Stability Hypovolemic shock: can be avoided by timely administration of IV Fluids, blood and blood products and medication.  Replacement of fluids.[colloids and crystalloids]  Keep the patient warm.  Monitor intake and output balance.  Monitor the vitals continuously with the patient condition.
50. ASSESSMENT OF THE SURGICAL SITE  Haemorrhage It is a serious complication of surgery that resulting death.  It can occur in immediate post operatively or upto several days after surgery.  If left untreated,cardiac output decreases and blood pressure and Hb level will fall rapidly.
51. • Blood transfusion if necessary. • The surgical site+incision should always be inspected. • If bleeding,pressure dressing are placed. • If the bleeding is concealed,the patient is taken in OR for emergency exploration of concealed haemorrhage in body cavity.
52. RELIEVING PAIN +ANXIETY  Administer opioid analgesia as per Doctor's order.  Epidural analgesia.  NSAIDS.  Psychological support to relieve fear+To give support.
53. CONTROLLING NAUSEA+VOMITTING These are common problem in post operative period. Medication can be administered as per doctor's order. Example: Inj Metaclopramide Inj Ondansetron ( Emeset )
54. WHEN TO BE DISCHARGED FROM RR? • When patient fulfill following criterias,  Fully concious Respiration and oxygenation are satisfactory Not in pain or nausea CVS parameters are stable Oxygen, fluids and analgesics prescribed No conceren related to surgical procedure
55. SYSTEM SPECIFIC COMPLICATION
56. RESPIRATORY COMPLICATION
57. • most common are  hypoxaemia  hypercapnia  aspiration • late complication  Pneumonia  pulmonary embolism
58. POSTOPERATIVE HYPOXIA • Present as shortness of breath, or agitated due to upper airway obstruction • Signs  Absence of air movements  Seesaw movement of chest  Suprasternal recession  cyanosis
59. Causes of hypoxia Upper airway obstruction due to residual effect of anaesthesia Laryngeal edema due to tracheal intubation or palsy hypoventillatio n Atelectasis or pneuomia Pulmonary edema of cardiac origin Pulmonary embolism with sudden chest pain
60. TREATMENT • Should be treated urgently • Administer oxygen at 15L/min using a non- rebreathing mask + head tilt, chin lift and jaw thrust • Suctioning of any blood or secretions • Tracheal intubation and manual ventillation • If pneumonia : antibiotics, chest physiotherapy and bronchodillators • If pulmonary edema : start on diuretics and cardiology opinion sought
61. CARDIOVASCULAR COMPLICATION
62. • Hypotension is common due to inadequate fluid replacement, vasodilatation from anesthesia • Other causes  Surgical bleeding  Sepsis  Arrythmias  Myocardial infarction  Cardiac failure  Tension pneumothorax  Pulmonary embolism
63. • Signs  Cold clammy extremities  Tachycardia  Low urine output ( < 0.5 ml/kg )  Low CVP
64. MYOCARDIAL ISCHEMIA / INFARCTION • Patient with previous cardiac problems are at risk of ACS • Present with retrosternal pain radiating to jaw, neck or arms, may have nausea, dyspnoea or syncope • ST elevation seen in 2 continous leads on ECG and serum troponin level will be high in both conditions
65. TREATMENT • Start with oxygen, glyceryl trinitrate, morphine and aspirin • Beta blockers or calcium antagonist may be started • Cardiologist should be involved.
66. ARRYTHMIA • Cause hypotension and ischemia • Need continuous monitoring • Treated according to Resuscitation Council peri-arrest guideline, Correct the cause including acid-base and electrolyte imbalance, hypoxia, and hypercapnia
67. RENALAND URINARY COMPLICATIONS
68. ACUTE RENAL FAILURE • Any perioperative events like sepsis, bleeding, hypovolaemia, rhabdomyolysis and abdominal compartment syndrome precipitates • Treatment,  If urine output < 0.5ml/kg for 6 hrs, check the catheter if its blocked  Correct hypovolaemia, metabolic and electrolyte disturbance and stop nephrotoxic dugs
69. URINARY RETENTION • Common in pelvic and perineal operations • Catheterisation should be performed if an ope expected to last more than 3 hours or longer or when large volumes are administered
70. URINARY INFECTION • Patient present with dysuria or pyrexia • Immunocompromised, diabetis and patient with h/o urinary retention are at higher risk • Treatments Adequate hydration Proper bladder drainage antibiotics
71. Complicatons Related to Specific Surgical Specialities Anna Alisha Mathew Simon
72. Abdominal Surgery • The abdomen should be examined for distension, tenderness, drainage • Sites/wounds : – Paralytic illeus • following surgery, bowel movements may reduce temporarily • adequate hydration and electrolytes – Localised infection – Anastomotic leakage
73. Orthopeadic Surgery • Neurovascular status of limbs must be checked regularly • External fixator-pin site should be checked • Compartment syndrome-remove circumferential dressings-fasciotomy
74. Neck Surgery • Accumulation of blood = asphyxia • Recurrent laryngeal nerve damage-pre and post op
75. Thoracic Surgery • Regular review of chest drain • Continous ECG monitoring • Bronchopleural fistula • Heamothorax • Pleural effusion
76. Neurosurgery • Raised intracranial pressure-monitored closely Vascular Surgery • Regular clinical assessment and Doppler ultrasound post op
77. Plastic Surgery • Viability of flaps and perfusion needs to be monitored regularly Urology • Catheter patency must be check regularly • TURP-continous bladder irrigation- pulmonary oedema
78. GENERAL POSTOPERATIVE PROBLEMS AND MANAGEMENT NUR NABILAH ISZA BT ISMAIL JA'FAR
79. • Pain • Nausea and vomiting • Bleeding • Deep vein thrombosis • Hypothermia and shivering • Fever • Prophylaxis against infection • Confusional state • Drains • Wound care • Wound dehiscence • Enhanced recovery
80. Pain • Most feared problem among patients • More than 80% of patients experience post operative pain
81. Nausea & Vomiting • Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) can precipitate bleeding and dehiscence of wounds by dislodging the clots and bursting suture lines. • In neurosurgical patients  raised intracranial pressure • Risk factors: – Women – Non smoker – Past h/o PONV, motion sickness, migraine – Use of volatile anesthetic agents, opioids & NO – Duration and type of surgery • Management – Adequate treatment for pain, anxiety, hypotension & dehydration – Antiemetic (eg. Ondansetron, dexamethasone)
82. Bleeding • Primary hemorrhage: – either starting during surgery or following postoperative increase in blood pressure - replace blood loss and may require return to theatre to re- explore the wound • Secondary hemorrhage: – often as a result of infection.
83. Deep Vein Thrombosis • Presentation: – Calf pain – Swelling – Warmth – Redness – Engorged veins • Venography or duplex Doppler ultrasound is used to assess flow and the presence of thromboses • Management : – Use of stockings, calf pumps – Low molecular weight warfarin
84. Stratification of risk of DVT Low Medium High Maxillofacial surgery Inguinal hernia repair Pelvic elective and trauma surgery Neurosurgery Abdominal surgery Total knee and hip replacement Cardiothoracic surgery Gynecological surgery Urological surgery
85. Hypothermia and shivering • Anesthesia induces loss of thermoregulatory control. • Exposure of skin and organs to a cold operating environment, volatile skin preparation, infusion of cold IV fluids • Leads to increased cardiac morbidity, a hypocoagulable state, shivering with imbalance of O2 supply and demand, immune function impairment with possibility of wound infection. • Management  active warming devices
86. Fever • Causes of a raised temperature postopertively include: – Day 2-5 : atelectesis of lung – Day 3-5 : superficial & deep wound infection – Day 5 : chest infection, UTI and thrombophlebitis – > 5 days : wound infection, anastomotic leakage, abscess • Management : treat possible causes
87. Prophylaxis against infection • Patients who had foreign material insertion : – Hip or knee prosthesis – Aortic valve • Bacteria can be incorporated into the biofilm that forms on the surface of the implant. • Management : – Prophylactic antibiotic should be administered, usually one dose 30 mins before 'knife to skin' and two postoperatively.
88. Confusional state • Acute confusional states occur on recovery from anesth or few days after surgery. • Higher in elderly with hip fractures & is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. • Present as : – Anxiety – Incoherent speech – Clouding of consciousness – Destructive behavior (eg. pulling off cannula)
89. Cause Renal  Renal failure  Hyponatraemia  UTI  Urinary retention Respiratory  Hypoxia  Atelectesis Cardiocvascular  Pulmonary embolism  Dehydration  Septic shock  Myocardial infarction  Chronic heart failure  Arrhythmia Drugs  Opiates  Hypnotics  Cocaine  Alcohol withdrawal  Hypoglycemia
90. Neurological  Epilepsy  Encephalopathy  Head injury  Cerebrovascular accident Idiopathic (rare)  Hypothyroidism  Hyperthyroidism  Addison's disease
91. • Risk factors: – Pre-existing cognitive impairment – Use of narcotics, benzodiazepines, alcohol – Renal impairment – Depression • Precipitating factors – Physical restraints – Addition of new medications – Electrolyte & fluid abnormalities – Intraoperative blood loss – Admission to ICU • Management – Treat underlying medical problems – Involve relative, friends – Pain control
92. Drains • Used to prevent – Accumulation of blood, serosanguinous or purulent fluid – To allow the early diagnosis of a leaking surgical anastomosis • Quantity & character of drain fluid can be used to identify any abdominal complication such as fluid leakage (eg. bile or pancreatic fluid) or bleeding – Additional IV fluids with same electrolyte contents • Removed if drainage stopped or become less than 25 ml/day
93. Wound care • Within hours, dead space cells fills up with an inflammatory exudate. • Within 48 hours, a layer of epidermal cells from wound edge bridges the gap. • Inspect wound only if there is any concern or the dressing needs changing (under sterile condition) • Inflamed wound  swab and sent for Gram staining & culture • Infected wound & hematoma  treat with antibiotics • Contaminated/nonviable tissue remains  packed & return to theater every 24-48 hours for cleaning • Skin sutures/clips are usually removed between 6-10 days after surgery. • Delayed wound healing  patients who are malnourished, or have vitamin A & C deficiency • Causes of inhibition of wound healing : – Steroids – Diabetes (uncontrolled)
94. Wound dehiscence • Is a disruption of any or all of the layers in a wound • Commonly occurred from 5th to the 8th postoperative day when the strength of the wound is at the weakest. • It may herald an underlying abscess & usually presents with serosanguinous discharge. • Management  Return to theater & resuturing  Leave wound open & treat with dressings or vacuum assisted closure (VAC) pumps
95. Risk factors General Local Malnourishment Inadequate or poor closure of wound Diabetes Poor local wound healing Obesity Increased intra-abdominal pressure Renal failure Jaundice Sepsis
96. Enhanced recovery • An approach to the perioperative care of patients undergoing surgery. • Designed to speed clinical recovery of patient, reduce the cost and length of stay in the hospital. • Strategies include : – Early planned physiotherapy & mobilisation (reduce risks of DVT, urinary retention, pressure sores) – Early oral hydration & nourishment – Good pain control NSAIDs – Discharge planning (support from stoma care nurses, physiotherapists)
97. DISCHARGE OF PATIENTS
98. Discharge Letter • Do include: – Diagnosis – Treatment – Laboratory results – Complications – Discharge plan – Support needed (eg: physiotherapy) – Follow up
99. Follow Up in Clinic • Reviewed in clinic when a key decision on management needs to be made • Letter to patient's GP: – Care plan agreed with patient – Advise on recognizing the onset of complications • Discharge patient from clinic
There were 20 cases where there was a difference in diagnosis on the biopsy and the resection specimen, as a result of sampling issues [Table 4] and [Figure 1], [Figure 2], [Figure 3], [Figure 4]. In 23 (5.8%) cases, addenda were given after initial reporting as per requested review or discussion in the joint meetings.
Figure 2: (a and b) Finely multivacuolated cells of brown adipose tissue, misdiagnosed as a well-differentiated liposarcoma (H and E, ×200). (c) A well-differentiated liposarcoma/atypical lipomatous tumor, missed on biopsy (H and E, ×200). (d) Same case showing distinct atypical stromal cells and lipoblasts (indented tumor nuclei by cytoplasmic vacuoles), noted, on review (H and E, ×400). Inset: S100 protein positivity highlighting adipocytes, including lipoblasts (DAB, ×400). DAB = Diaminobenzidine
Figure 4: (a and b) Case of a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, diagnosed as schwannoma, on biopsy (H and E, ×2000). On review, the biopsy lacked features of malignancy. (c and d) On resection, sarcomatous areas with prominent mitoses seen, juxtaposed with areas of schwannoma (asterix), sampled in the biopsy (H and E, ×400)
During review, we encountered limitations in 30 cases for reaching the diagnosis in the form of need for additional IHC stains (25 cases), molecular analysis (3 cases), and additional diagnostic material (2 cases).
It is known that major diagnostic difficulties in reporting of oncopathology specimens are frequently associated with lymphomas and STSs, by a general pathologist.[22] The benefits of institutional consultations in surgical pathology relating to STTs have been highlighted.[23]
The guidelines for cancer services by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in 2006 state that all STSs should either be primarily reported or reviewed by a pathologist, who specializes in STTs. An STT or a sarcoma pathologist is the one who regularly reports STTs, which form a significant component of his or her workload. He or she should participate in the soft tissue part of the bone and soft tissue pathology external quality assurance scheme and be part of a properly constituted sarcoma multidisciplinary team.[24]
To the best of our knowledge, there has been no sizable study on the critical evaluation/audit of STTs from our country and continent, except for an occasional account of few cases, emphasizing the necessity and value of reviews and second opinions in the diagnosis of soft tissue lesions.[25]
In this study, the discordant rate between reports from the referring laboratories and review by the sarcoma pathologist was 81%, including 60% major and 21% minor discordances. Apparently, this significant discordant rate was a result of the referral diagnoses established on FNAC specimens in 40% cases. The role of FNAC in the primary diagnosis of STTs is limited. Essentially, few centers, engaged in dealing with large volume of these cases with access to ancillary techniques on cytology specimens, can deal with this challenge.[6] This higher rate of discordance between STTs reported elsewhere and at our institution underpins the value of referring STT for diagnosis at a specialized center, with access to IHC and molecular techniques.
The discordance rate between the cases reported by the various consultants from within our Department and review by the sarcoma pathologist was 29%, including 18% minor and 11% major discordances. The possible reasons for this relatively lower percentage of discordances include ready access for second opinion in certain cases; multidisciplinary meetings; and easy communication regarding challenging cases between the departmental experts and the nonexperts for a specific tumor specialty. However, rates in both the scenarios are beyond the acceptable threshold of patient safety practices. The Association of Directors of Anatomic and Surgical Pathology approves of 2% as the acceptable threshold for clinically significant disagreement following review.[26],[27]
The rate of discordance, with regard to the specimen type (trucut, incisional and excisional biopsies, and resections), was not found to be significant in this study. Serpell et al.[10] noted high degree of diagnostic accuracy with trucut biopsies in STSs and highlighted the disadvantages of open biopsies.
D&P Medical Group provides client-based services in the fields of wound care, hyperbaric medicine, medical cannabis, clinical research, and product development.
Our services include state of the art patient evaluation and treatment, clinical research, product testing and development, consulting/advisor services, clinical staffing, and educational related services. Not sure if D&P can help meet your needs? Just ask and we would be happy to provide an initial consultation free of charge.
Learn More
D&P Medical Group is excited to announce their participation in the groundbreaking field of medical cannabis. With initiation of medical cannabis programs in numerous states across the country and internationally, D&P Medical Group has strategically and exclusively partnered with Compassionate Certification Centers™. We are a proud sponsor and participant in the landmark medical cannabis event, The 2017 World Medical Cannabis Convention & Expo, taking place in Pittsburgh, PA April 21 & 22 (visit www.cccregister.com for further info).
D&P Medical Group is now pleased to offer URGENT CARE related TELEHEALTH CONSULTATIONS & TREATMENT, available from the comfort of your own home. Scheduled appointments now available with board certified Emergency Medicine physicians to evaluate and treat patients LOCATED IN ANY STATE.
A sample list of the services available for which we are able to evaluate AND treat include (but not limited to):
-	COVID-19 Evaluation and Testing
-	Cough/Cold/Flu symptoms
-	Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and other gastrointestinal ailments
-	Urinary tract infections and other genitourinary related ailments
-	Skin disorders, rashes and allergic reactions
-	Asthma, COPD, bronchitis, and other respiratory related ailments
-	Wound care
-	Concussion care
-	Strains, sprains, and other musculoskeletal ailments
-	And many others!!!!
Our board-certified emergency physicians are able to perform evaluations and prescribe testing and medications, all from a simple telehealth platform. Patients can be evaluated from the comfort of their own homes while avoiding unnecessary exposure or transmission risk during the current COVID-19 outbreak. Many insurances accepted and cash/credit card payment options also available. To schedule an appointment with one of our physicians or get more information, simply call 412-998-9004 or email info@dandpmedicalgroup.com and one of representatives will gladly assist.
New Location!
D&P is excited to announce the opening of its newest location at 9000 Perry Highway in the North Hills of Pittsburgh. D&P will be proud to offer its complete array of wound care, hyperbaric and research related services at this new location. As of March 2019, we are actively evaluating and treating patients at our new location, and will have two state of the art, hospital grade Hyperbaric Oxygen Chambers available for patient treatments. Please stop by to take a look or contact us anytime to make an appointment or discuss opportunities.
Our Services
Consulting
Research
Medical-Legal Expert
Product Development / Presentation
Clinical Staffing / Education
Medical Cannabis
Events
FEB 2019
Grand Opening
D&P Medical Group GRAND OPENING
9000 Perry Highway,
Pittsburgh, PA 15237
JUNE 2019
New Products
D&P Medical Group to introduce Compassionate Certification Centers Hemp Derived CBD Products into new Perry Highway location for patient purchase.
JULY 2019
Grand Opening
Grand opening of Compassionate Certification Center’s newest location at D&P’s 9000 Perry Highway location, on Monday July 15th
Get the latestUpdates
FeaturedResearch
Point of care treatment of Diabetic Foot
Ulcers with in vitro autologous blood
clotting application
Bedside application of novel epidermal harvesting system in Venous Leg Ulcers
compounded pharmaceutical application in the treatment of Venous Leg Ulcers and Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy
Partners
About Us
D&P Medical Group was founded based on our training and experience in the fields of wound care, hyperbaric medicine,medical cannabis, and clinical research, and to meet the specific needs of our clientele. Our company is based on providing personalized and strategic services in these sub-specialty areas of medicine. From consulting and advising services to product development and research, D&P Medical Group can help meet your organizations wound, medical cannabis, hyperbaric, and research related needs.
