New antibacterials for the treatment of toxoplasmosis; a patent review.
PMID: 22404108 Owner: NLM Status: MEDLINE
INTRODUCTION: Toxoplasma gondii is an opportunistic protozoan parasite responsible for toxoplasmosis. T. gondii is able to infect a wide range of hosts, particularly humans and warm-blooded animals. Toxoplasmosis can be considered as one of the most prevalent parasitic diseases affecting close to one billion people worldwide, but its current chemotherapy is still deficient and is only effective in the acute phase of the disease.
AREAS COVERED: This review covers different approaches to toxoplasmosis chemotherapy focused on the metabolic differences between the host and the parasite. Selective action on different targets such as the isoprenoid pathway, dihydrofolate reductase, T. gondii adenosine kinase, different antibacterials, T. gondii histone deacetylase and calcium-dependent protein kinases is discussed.
EXPERT OPINION: A new and safe chemotherapy is needed, as T. gondii causes serious morbidity and mortality in pregnant women and immunodeficient patients undergoing chemotherapy. A particular drawback of the available treatments is the lack of efficacy against the tissue cyst of the parasite. During this review a broad scope of several attractive targets for drug design have been presented. In this context, the isoprenoid pathway, dihydrofolate reductase, T. gondii histone deacetylase are promising molecular targets.
Juan Bautista Rodriguez; Sergio Hernán Szajnman
22635078 - The di bella method (dbm) improved survival, objective response and performance status ...
19697088 - Prognostic effect of diaphyseal location in osteosarcoma: a cohort case-control study a...
17472558 - Clinical and immunohistochemical differentiation of gastrointestinal stromal tumors fro...
16860938 - Primary bone osteosarcoma in the pediatric age: state of the art.
2464818 - Feulgen dna values in wilms' tumour in relation to prognosis.
9830438 - A 2-week pretreatment with 13-cis-retinoic acid + interferon-alpha-2a prior to definiti...
Type: Journal Article; Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't; Review Date: 2012-03-10
Title: Expert opinion on therapeutic patents Volume: 22 ISSN: 1744-7674 ISO Abbreviation: Expert Opin Ther Pat Publication Date: 2012 Mar
Created Date: 2012-03-14 Completed Date: 2012-07-03 Revised Date: 2013-11-06
Languages: eng Pagination: 311-33 Citation Subset: IM
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Química Orgánica & UMYMFOR (CONICET-FCEyN), Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Pab 2, Ciudad Universitaria, Buenos Aires, C1428EHA, Argentina. jbr@qo.fcen.uba.ar
Antiprotozoal Agents / adverse effects, pharmacology*
Toxoplasmosis / drug therapy*, epidemiology, parasitology
Toxoplasmosis, Animal / drug therapy, epidemiology, parasitology
0/Antiprotozoal Agents
Previous Document: Aldehyde oxidase functions as a superoxide generating NADH oxidase: an important redox regulated pat...
Next Document: Arabidopsis Thaliana Histone Deacetylase 14 (Hda14) is an ?-Tubulin Deacetylase that Associates with...
Your generous donation supports our efforts to bring health care to the medically under-served and indigent.
Mission Statement Our mission is to provide compassionate, quality medical care to the medically under-served in the mountains of Appalachia. About The Health Wagon Health Wagon Time Line The Health Wagon is a nonprofit organization providing mobile health services to the medically underserved in Southwest Virginia since 1980. The Health Wagon visits eleven sites in…
You can make a difference in helping us provide compassionate, quality healthcare to the medically underserved in our area. In addition, medical professional volunteers such as physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, RNs, and LPNs are always needed and appreciated. Volunteer Handbook Volunteer Letter Volunteer Application Packet Volunteer Evaluation Volunteer Work List Volunteer Duties All volunteer…
The Health Wagon's mission is to provide compassionate, quality health care to the medically underserved people in the Mountains of Appalachia. Our values are inclusiveness, community outreach, collaboration, spirituality and empowerment.
Let us tell you The Health Wagon story. Our average patient is 38 years old. Ninety-eight percent of our patients are uninsured. Seventy percent of them have an income of less than $20,000 annually, despite working multiple jobs. This means they make too much money to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance. Our patients live in desperately poverty-stricken rural Appalachia, where they can't afford to go to the doctor but can't afford not to. The mobility of our health clinic means we are able to fill the gap, whether they are inline at the food bank or at their job, we bring healthcare to them.
The Health Wagon with its mobile clinic and two stationary clinics has remained a pioneer in the delivery of health care in the central Appalachian region for more than three decades. The Health Wagon provides Southwest Virginia and the surrounding region with compassionate, high quality health care services. We serve the most vulnerable in our population that do not have access to health care. Our patients have no insurance or may have insurance but have high co-pays and deductibles. We create a medical home for our patients and give access to health care services that they would otherwise do without. Daily at our clinic, someone's life is forever changed or saved because of the services of that the Health Wagon offers. We create access and more importantly hope to those who come through our doors.
The Health Wagon serves individuals and families with free, integrated health care that is culturally sensitive. We provide primary and preventive care, dental, behavioral health, telehealth, and specialty care. In addition to our routine services, we provide the region with strategically coordinated outreach efforts. We are most proud of our Remote Area Medical - Wise Health Expedition held annually which is the largest medical outreach of its kind in the nation. Individuals in desperate need of health care line up days in advance to get needed services such as free, eye, dental and medical care. We have valuable partnerships with academic institutions that allow upcoming physicians, nurse practitioners and nurses to a name a few to having valuable educational experiences along with helping individuals in dire need of health care. The breadth of our mission, accomplishments and unprecedented community collaboration attest to our commitment to the people in the Appalachian region.
Caring and committed partners- including foundations, corporations, civic group, churches and businesses and individuals- support the Health Wagon and our outreaches to make delivery of health care to some of the most disadvantaged in the nation.
Mail checks to: The Health Wagon, P.O. Box 7070, Wise, VA 24293
NO COST mammograms at our Clintwood Clinic! We still have 3 openings on September 25th and 15 openings on September 26th for mammograms. Patients..
Professor Asu Ozdaglar named head of Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | MIT EECS
Asu Ozdaglar, the Joseph F. and Nancy P. Keithley Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, has been named the new department head of EECS, effective Jan. 1, 2018. She has been the interim head of the department since July 1, 2017, when former head Anantha Chandraksan was named dean of the School of Engineering.
“Professor Ozdaglar is an inspiring researcher and has emerged as a true leader in the areas of optimization theory and algorithms, game theory, and networks,” Chandrakasan says. “Her vision and dedication as an educator have been equally impressive. She is both a tireless advocate and coach for her students, and she has been a strong advocate for educational innovation in EECS.”
A former associate department head in EECS, director of the Laboratory for Information Decision Systems, and associate director of the Institute for Data, Systems, and Society, Ozdaglar has made fundamental contributions to optimization theory, economic and social networked systems, and game theory. Her research in optimization ranges from convex analysis and duality to distributed methods for large-scale systems and optimization algorithms for machine learning. Her work on game theory focuses on adaptive dynamics in networks and large games, and issues of new equilibrium concepts and computation of equilibria. Her research has integrated analysis of social and economic interactions within the study of networks and spans many dimensions of these areas, including the analysis of learning and communication, diffusion and information propagation, influence in social networks, and cascades and systemic risk in economic and financial systems.
Ozdaglar’s educational contributions to MIT are equally substantial. She has developed a range of graduate and undergraduate courses, including a graduate-level game theory subject and an undergraduate course on networks that is jointly listed with the Department of Economics. She played a leading role (with Costis Daskalakis and colleagues in course 14) in launching a new undergraduate major in 6-14: Computer Science, Economics and Data Science. She also served as technical program co-chair of EECS’s Rising Stars program in 2015.
Ozdaglar is a past recipient of a Microsoft fellowship, the MIT Graduate Student Council Teaching award, the NSF Career award, the 2008 Donald P. Eckman award of the American Automatic Control Council, and the Class of 1943 Career Development Chair. She was the inaugural Steven and Renee Innovation Fellow, and won the 2014 Spira teaching award. She served on the Board of Governors of the Control System Society in 2010 and was an associate editor for IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control. She is the inaugural area co-editor for a new area for the journal Operations Research, entitled “Games, Information and Networks,” and she is the co-author of Convex Analysis and Optimization (Athena Scientific, 2003).
Ozdaglar received her bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from the Middle East Technical University, in Ankara, Turkey, in 1996, and SM and PhD degrees in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT in 1998 and 2003.
EECS is the largest academic unit at MIT. It currently enrolls 1,297 undergraduate majors and 916 graduate students. In 2016-17, the department awarded 477 undergraduate, 260 master’s, and 95 doctoral degrees. More than 120 EECS faculty members conduct their research in four affiliated labs: the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL), the Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems (LIDS), the Microsystems Technology Laboratories (MTL), and the Research Laboratory of Electronics (RLE).
You should not use cholecalciferol if you have high levels of calcium or vitamin D in your blood, or if you have any condition that makes it hard for your body to absorb nutrients from food (malabsorption).
For good health, it is important that you eat a balanced and varied diet. Follow carefully any diet program your health care professional may recommend. For your specific dietary vitamin and/or mineral needs, ask your health care professional for ...
Since this medicine is taken when needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule. If you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember. Skip the missed dose if it is almost time for your next scheduled dose. Do not...
If your doctor has directed you to use this medication, remember that he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greate...
Along with its needed effects, cholecalciferol (the active ingredient contained in D-Vita Drops) may cause so...
Highway safety advocates said they understood why the decision was made, but they had reservations about the effect on drivers. Drivers were putting in grueling hours before the waiver was announced, said Cathy Chase, the president of Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety.
“Like we’re taking care of health care providers, we need to make sure we’re taking care of truck drivers,” she said. “Drivers will be pushed beyond their limits.”
In recent years, trucks have been outfitted with devices that electronically log how many hours a trucker has driven. The devices are intended to promote safety and save lives.
But under the administration's waiver, drivers can turn the devices off during emergency runs, according to the motor carrier safety administration. Asked why, a spokesperson said, "By law, ELD data can only be used for hours-of-service enforcement."
The suspended safety rules come as the number of drivers of large trucks killed in single-vehicle accidents has increased over the years.
The Expression of the Psychosomatic Body from a Phenomenological Perspective SpringerBriefs in Philosophy by Jennifer Bullington: Springer 9789400764972 Paperback - BuySomeBooks
Home Jennifer Bullington The Expression of the Psychosomatic Body from a Phenomenological...
ISBN 10: 9400764979 / ISBN 13: 9789400764972
100 pages. Dimensions: 9.0in. x 5.9in. x 0.4in.This book is a contribution to the understanding of psychosomatic health problems. Inspired by the work of the French phenomenologist Maurice Merleau-Ponty, a phenomenological theory of psychosomatics is worked out as an alternative to traditional, biomedical thinking. The patient who presents somatic symptoms with no clearly discernible lesion or dysfunction presents a problem to the traditional health care system. These symptoms are medically unexplainable, constituting an anomaly for the materialistic understanding of ill health that underlies the practice of modern medicine. The traditional biomedical model is not appropriate for understanding a number of health issues that we call psychosomatic and for this reason, biomedical theory and practice must be complemented by another theoretical understanding in order to adequately grasp the psychosomatic problematic. This book establishes a complementary understanding of psychosomatic ill health in terms of a non-reductionistic model allowing for the (psychosomatic) expression of the lived body. A thorough presentation of the work Merleau-Ponty is followed by the authors application of his thinking to the phenomenon of psychosomatic pathology. This item ships from multiple locations. Your book may arrive from Roseburg,OR, La Vergne,TN. Bookseller Inventory # 9789400764972
Amitabh Bachchan, son Abhishek test positive for coronavirus | Entertainment News,The Indian Express
Amitabh and Abhishek Bachchan are undergoing treatment at Nanavati Hospital, with an official confirming that they had "facilitated their tests" and that the two are "stable".
Updated: July 12, 2020 7:49:05 am
Amitabh Bachchan and Abhishek Bachchan have both tested positive for coronavirus. (Photo: Abhishek Bachchan/Instagram)
Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan and his son, actor Abhishek Bachchan, announced in separate tweets on Saturday that they have tested positive for Covid-19 and have been admitted to a hospital in Mumbai with "mild symptoms".
Both of them are undergoing treatment at Nanavati Hospital, with an official confirming that they had "facilitated their tests" and that the two are "stable". Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said all their other family members have tested negative in rapid antigen tests. The results of the RT-PCR tests are awaited, he said.
"I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests, results awaited .. All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!" Amitabh Bachchan, 77, posted.
About an hour later, near midnight, Abhishek, 44, posted: "Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you."
Hospital officials said Amitabh Bachchan arrived first for a preliminary check-up after developing symptoms. "After he tested positive, he was advised admission. He went home and returned for hospitalisation by 10 pm. The hospital informed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after his reports came positive," said an official.
Apart from a number of actors and fans, Union Ministers Nitin Gadkari, Ram Vilas Paswan and Prakash Javadekar wished a "speedy recovery" to Amitabh Bachchan, who has battled health issues before. In 2012, he recovered from tuberculosis, and later suffered from Hepatitis B with compromised liver functioning.
The government had banked on the star's appeal to publicise several of its initiatives, including a promotional video on the Aarogya Setu app against the stigmatisation of Covid patients.
Read ~ Amitabh, Abhishek test positive for coronavirus: Celebrities wish speedy recovery
At the heart of the Covid outbreak in India, Mumbai has so far recorded 91,745 cases and 5,244 deaths. On Saturday, the city recorded 1,284 cases and 39 deaths.
Implementing SBIRT for adolescents within community mental health organizations: A mixed methods study – Implementation Science News
< Consortium For Implementation Science
Implementation Science News
By Category
By Month
Abstract Search
Newsletter
By Category
By Month
Abstract Search
Newsletter
Post Categories:
Announcements Commentary Events / Conferences Featured Articles Fellowships Funding Opportunities Job Opportunities Resource of the Month Training Opportunities Webinars
Implementing SBIRT for adolescents within community mental health organizations: A mixed methods study
Jul 01, 2018 | V. Stanhope, J. I. Manuel, L. Jessell and T. M. Halliday
OBJECTIVE: Many adolescents with substance use problems remain untreated, leading to increased risk for the development of substance use disorders. One response is Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT)-an evidence-based, early intervention that can be tailored for adolescents. This mixed methods study examined the implementation of SBIRT across 27 community mental health organizations (CMHOs) serving adolescents.
METHODS: Organizations completed surveys on the adoption of SBIRT and implementation barriers during the study period. Quantitative data were analyzed to examine the frequency of screening, brief intervention, and referrals. Qualitative data were coded using an iterative process that focused on barriers categorized according to the Conceptual Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) constructs.
RESULTS: A total of 2873 adolescents were screened for alcohol and drug use with 1517 (52.8%) receiving a positive drug or alcohol screen. Positive screens that received brief intervention (BI)/referral to treatment (RT) had a significantly greater mean drug score and overall scores at baseline. The most salient implementation barriers were adaptability and complexity of SBIRT, policies related to funding and licensing, staff turnover, and implementation climate.
DISCUSSION: Nearly half of the adolescents scored positive for problematic substance use demonstrating the unmet need among this population. Future implementation efforts should focus on coordinating program demands, securing funding, integrating SBIRT into clinical workflows, retaining staff, and improving referral to treatment processes.
PubMed Abstract
Stanhope, V., Manuel, J. I., Jessell, L., & Halliday, T. M. (2018). Implementing SBIRT for adolescents within community mental health organizations: A mixed methods study. J Subst Abuse Treat, 90, 38-46. doi:10.1016/j.jsat.2018.04.009
Recent Abstracts
View All Abstracts
Applying implementation frameworks to the clinical trial context
2022-10-10 | Stensland
A citation analysis and scoping systematic review of the operationalization of the Practical, Robust Implementation and Sustainability Model (PRISM)
2022-09-24 | Rabin
Scaling Interventions to Manage Chronic Disease: Innovative Methods at the Intersection of Health Policy Research and Implementation Science
Waco VA fighting small Legionella outbreak
Home > Waco VA fighting small Legionella outbreak
Created 12/10/2013 - 3:50pm
Colby Howell POSTED: Tuesday, December 10, 2013 - 3:50pm
UPDATED: Wednesday, December 11, 2013 - 12:35pm
Waco, TX — The Waco VA Medical Center has confirmed five of its buildings at one point had a form of bacteria that causes Legionnaires' Disease, and the hospital is now doing all it can to prevent more cases from popping up.
In October, a veteran at the Waco VA had flu-like symptoms.
When doctors ran tests, they found the man had contracted Legionnaires' Disease which can cause sickness similar to pneumonia.
A normal person's immune symptom can typically fight the bacteria naturally, but those with weak immune systems or outlying health problems are at risk. And unfortunately, many people like this can be found at the VA.
"The guy is doing well. We treated the patient and he responded well to the antibiotics." said spokesperson Deborah Meyer.
The hospital sampled water from each of the 20 buildings on site.
Tests have begun to trickle in, and they say there are at least five buildings with the bacteria Legionella.
Each faucet in the buildings have been fitted with a filter. Administrators have already begun upping levels of chlorine in some of the water systems.
"We're going to start a priority system and do the high-risk buildings first; the ones with the patients and work our way down to our administrative buildings," said Meyer.
The bacteria that causes the disease is contracted by inhaling infected water vapor.
The hospital is keeping a close eye on those with a persistent cough or fever.
"We've been hyper-vigilant," said Meyer. "Our nurses and doctors are trained to watch for those symptoms. And if they even have suspicion, all it takes is a simple urine test and it's a quick turnaround. If they find it, and are seeing those types of symptoms, they put them on antibiotics and normally people respond to them well."
Meyer said, "We've only had that one case. We haven't had any more cases and that just goes to show that what we're trying to do is right and also that the risk is low."
For pioneering the application of chaos theory and nonlinear dynamics to energy technologies, including gas-fluidized beds, internal combustion engines, and pulsed combustion.
Amit Goyal
For pioneering research and distinguished contributions to the field of high-temperature superconductors, including fundamental materials science advances and technical innovations that enable commercialization.
2005
Anthony Mezzacappa
For research in the fields of astrophysics and supernova science.
2003
Gene Ice
For the development of advanced X-ray focusing and microfocusing optics and three-dimensional X-ray microscopy, and for pioneering research on the atomic and mesoscale structure of materials.
Ben Larson
For fundamental investigations of the structure and dynamics of materials using X-ray diffraction, including pioneering nanosecond resolution X-ray studies and the development of three-dimensional X-ray structural microscopy with submicron resolution.
1991
Stan A David
For significant advancement of welding science and technology through original and definitive research, particularly for contributions to understanding the solidification behavior of the weld pool, phase stability microstructure-property correlations in welds, and continued leadership and outstanding service to the national and international welding research community.
1985
Eric Hirst
For pioneering work on energy conservation, including development of energy demand models, data bases, and analyses of energy use trends, which has contributed to federal and state energy policies and programs and to demand-side planning by electric utilities.
1979
Francis G. J. Perey
For contributions to nuclear data measurement, analysis, and applications, through determination and development of neutron-induced reaction cross sections, high-resolution neutron scattering, the nonlocal nuclear optical model, and uncertainty and covariance information
