Data privacy statement - Tecnamic
Die Tecnamic GmbH (hereafter: "we"), as the operator of the online website, is considered to be the responsible party for the processing of the personal data of the users of the online website. You can find our contact data in the Imprint section of the online website. The contact persons for questions related to the processing of personal data are named directly in this Data Protection Statement.
We take the protection of your private sphere and your private data very seriously. We collect, store and use your personal data only in accordance with the content of this Data Protection Statement as well as the applicable provisions under data protection law–particularly of the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the national data protection guidelines.
By means of this Data Protection Statement, we would like to inform you about the scope and purpose of personal data processing in conjunction with usage of the online website.
Personal data are considered to be information regarding an identified or identifiable natural person. These data include all information regarding your identity as well as, for example, your name, your e-mail address or your postal address. However, information which is not attributable to your identity (e.g. statistical data such as the number of users of the online website) shall not be considered to be personal information.
In principle, you can use our online website without disclosing your identity and your personal data. We shall collect merely general information regarding your visit to our online website. However, for some of the services offered, your personal data shall be collected. In principle, these data shall then be processed by us only for the purposes of the usage of this online website–particularly in order to supply the requested information. During the collection of personal data, only the data must compulsorily be provided which are mandatorily required. Moreover, it is possible to provide additional data whereby such data shall be provided voluntarily. We shall respectively indicate whether the fields are mandatory or optional. We shall then inform you of the concrete details in the corresponding section of this Data Protection Statement.
Automated decision-making upon the basis of your personal data shall not be undertaken in conjunction with the usage of our online website.
We shall store your data on specially-protected servers within the European Union. They shall be protected by means of technical and organisational measures against loss, destruction, access, modification or dissemination of your data by unauthorised persons. The access to your data shall be made possible only to a small number of authorised persons. They shall be responsible for the technical, commercial or editorial management of the servers. However, despite controlling measures upon a regular basis, it is not possible to completely protect against all risks.
Your personal data shall be transmitted in encrypted fashion via the Internet. For the data transmission, we shall use SSL encryption (secure socket layer).
In principle, we shall use your personal information only for the rendering of the services which you have requested. Insofar as we commission external service providers in order to render the services, their access to the data shall be granted exclusively for the purpose of the rendering of services. By means of technical and organisational measures, we shall ensure the fulfilment of the data protection guidelines and shall also obligate our external service providers in this regard.
Moreover, without your express consent, we shall not pass on the data to third parties–particularly not for advertising purposes. A dissemination of your personal data shall be undertaken only if you yourself have approved the data dissemination or insofar as we are entitled or obliged in this regard to disseminate the data in accordance with the statutory directives and/or government and/or court decrees. In this regard, this may encompass particularly the issuance of information for the purposes of criminal investigations, warding off risks or asserting intellectual property rights.
Insofar as we obtain consent for the processing of your personal data, Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. a) GDPR shall serve as the legal basis for the data processing.
Insofar as your personal data are processed because this is required in order to fulfil a contractual agreement or for a quasi-contractual relationship with you, Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. b) GDPR shall serve as the legal basis for the data processing.
Insofar as we process your personal data in order to fulfil a legal obligation, Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. c) GDPR shall serve as the legal basis for the data processing.
Moreover, the legal basis for the data processing shall be Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f) GDPR if the processing of your personal data shall be required in order to safeguard a rightful interest of our company or of a third party and, by so doing, your interests, fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms do not require the protection of the personal data.
In this Data Protection Statement, we shall always refer to which legal basis we shall use to support the processing of your personal data.
Data Deletion and Storage Timeframe
We shall in principle always then delete and/or block your personal data when the purpose of their storage is no longer valid. However, storage may then continue beyond this point if this is prescribed by legal directives to which we are subject, e.g. with regards to statutory retention and documentation obligations. In such a case, we shall delete and/or block your personal data after the validity of the corresponding directives ends.
Usage of Our Online Website
During each accessing of our online website, we shall–regardless of whether you have registered or not–collect the following information about your computer: The IP address of your computer, the query from your browser as well as the time that this query was made. Moreover, the status and the transmitted data quantity for the query shall be collected. We shall also collect product and version information regarding the browser and the operating system of the computer being used. We shall also collect data regarding from which website our online website was accessed. In this context, your computer's IP address shall be stored only for the time of the usage of the online website and then deleted or anonymised by shortening it. The remaining data shall be stored for a limited timeframe.
We shall use these data for the operation of the online website–particularly in order to detect and eliminate errors, in order to determine the capacity utilisation of the online website as well as in order to make adjustments or improvements. For these purposes, we also have a rightful interest in the data processing in accordance with Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f) GDPR.
As is the case with many websites, cookies are used for our online website. Cookies are small text files which are stored on your computer and store specific settings and data via your browser for exchange with our online website. As a rule, a cookie contains the name of the domain from which the cookie file was sent as well as information regarding the age of the cookie and an alphanumerical identification code.
Cookies enable us to identify your computer and to immediately make any default settings available. Cookies help us to improve the online website as well as to be able to offer you a better service which is even more customised to you. Herein also lies our rightful interest in the data processing in accordance with Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f) GDPR.
The cookies which we use are so-called session cookies which are automatically deleted again after the browser session ends. Upon an individual basis, cookies can also be used with a longer storage timeframe so that your default settings and preferences can still be utilised during your next visit to our online website.
Most browsers' default settings automatically accept cookies. However, you can nonetheless deactivate the storage of cookies or adjust the settings on your browser in such a manner that it will notify you as soon as cookies are sent. Moreover, it is also possible to manually delete cookies that have already been stored via the settings on your browser. However, please keep in mind that you may possibly be able to use our online website only in a restricted manner or not be able to use it at all if you reject the storage of cookies or delete the required cookies.
We shall use Google Analytics for statistical analyses. Google Analytics is a web analysis service from Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94034, USA ("Google"). Google Analytics uses so-called "cookies"–text files which are stored on your computer and enable an analysis of your usage of the website. As a rule, the information generated by the cookies regarding your usage of this website shall be transmitted to a Google server in the USA and stored there. In the event of the activation of IP anonymisation on this website, your IP address shall nonetheless be shortened beforehand by Google within the member countries of the European Union or in other contracting countries to the European Economic Area Convention. Only in exceptional cases shall the entire IP address be transmitted to a Google server in the USA and shortened there. By mandate issued by this website's operator, Google shall use this information in order to analyse your usage of the website, in order to draft reports regarding the website activities and in order to render additional services associated with the usage of the website and the Internet to the website's operator. The IP address transmitted by your browser during Google Analytics shall not be commingled with other data by Google. You can prevent the storage of cookies by correspondingly adjusting the settings on your browser software; however, we wish to point out that, in this case, you may not be able to comprehensively use all functions of this website. Moreover, you can prevent the collection of the data (including your IP address), which has been generated by the cookie and refers to your usage of the website, from being sent to Google as well as the processing of these data by Google by downloading and installing the browser plug-in that is available by clicking on the following link tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout.
You can find additional information in this regard at tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout and/or www.google.com/intl/de/analytics/privacyoverview.html (general information regarding Google Analytics and data protection). We wish to point out to you that, on our Internet site, Google Analytics has been expanded by the code " anonymizeIp();" in order to anonymise the IP addresses whereby the last octet has been deleted.
We are of the belief that, owing to the protective measures undertaken (anonymisation and right of objection), the data processing in order to optimise our online website must be regarded as being a rightful interest in the data processing in accordance with Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f) GDPR.
You can register in order to use our online website. In order to register, you must disclose the data requested during the registration process, e.g. name, address and e-mail address. In addition, we shall collect the date and time of day of the registration and the IP address. During the registration process, we shall obtain your consent for the usage of the data. By so doing, you will obtain the benefit of not having to re-enter these data during each usage and/or for each order.
For consent, the legal basis for the processing of the data for the registration shall be Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. a) GDPR. Insofar as you register with us in order to fulfil or negotiate a contractual agreement, the legal basis for the processing of the data shall also be Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. b) GDPR.
The information requested during the registration process which is marked as being a mandatory field shall be required in order to fulfil or negotiate a contractual agreement with us for certain services.
During the registration, a customer account shall be created for you. We shall store the data in the customer account as long as an active customer relationship exists. If no more activity has been detected for a timeframe of three years, the status of the customer relationship shall be changed to inactive. You may, at any time, demand the deletion of your customer account.
We shall use your personal information for orders only within our company and our affiliated companies as well as within the company commissioned to process the orders.
Storage and Data Dissemination for Orders
For processing orders, we cooperate with various companies who are responsible for the processing of payments and logistics. We ensure in this regard that our partners also follow the data protection guidelines. Thus, we disseminate your address data (name and postal address) to the respective transport company which delivers the ordered products to you. The legal basis for this shall be Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. b) GDPR. The processing of your personal data shall be required in order to fulfil the contractual agreement with you.
The data shall be stored by us as long as they are required in order to fulfil the contractual agreement. Moreover, we shall store these data in order to fulfil our post-contractual obligations and, based upon the retention timeframes prescribed by commercial law and tax law, for the statutorily-prescribed timeframe. As a rule, this retention timeframe shall be 10 years from the end of the respective calendar year.
Payment Processing for Orders, PayPal, Sofortüberweisung [Instant Transfer]
Depending on the payment method selected, as required, the payment processing shall be undertaken for orders by commissioning a service provider.
For a credit card payment, your required data such as name, address as well as the purchasing data shall be forwarded to the respective credit card company.
For a PayPal payment, you shall be guided via a link to PayPal's Internet site. In so doing, your personal data shall be processed. These personal data shall be your name, your postal address, your e-mail address, (where applicable) your telephone number as well as your bank account or your credit card data. In this regard, please review the General Business Terms and Conditions, Usage Terms and Conditions and Data Protection Guidelines of PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l. et Cie, S.C.A., 22-24 Boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg on the Internet site www.paypal.com.
For a payment made via Sofortüberweisung, you shall be guided via a link to the Internet site of Sofortüberweisung, a service of Sofort GmbH which is part of Klarna Bank AB (publ), Sveavägen 46111 34 Stockholm, Sweden. In this regard, your personal data shall be processed. These personal data shall be your name, your postal address, your e-mail address, (where applicable) your telephone number as well as your bank account or your credit card data. In this regard, please review the General Business Terms and Conditions, Usage Terms and Conditions and Data Protection Guidelines of Klarna at www.klarna.com.
The legal basis for the payment processing shall be Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. b) GDPR. The processing of your personal data shall be required in order to fulfil the contractual agreement with you whereby you may freely choose the payment method.
We shall store the data as long as they are required in order to fulfil the contractual agreement. Moreover, we shall store these data in order to fulfil our post-contractual obligations and, based upon the retention timeframes prescribed by commercial law and tax law, for the statutorily-prescribed timeframe. As a rule, this retention timeframe shall be 10 years from the end of the respective calendar year.
Depending on the payment method selected, a credit check may be required. In this case, in the event that we have obtained your consent to conduct the credit check, we shall commission external service providers to whom we shall transmit your data (name, address, birthdate, order value). We shall transmit the data to the Federation of Credit Reform Associations e.V., Hellersbergstraße 12, D-41460 Neuss.
The legal basis for the credit check shall be Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. a) GDPR. If you do not wish to issue your consent for the credit check, as required, you must select another payment method.
During the credit check, an estimate shall be obtained regarding how high the default probability is for our payment claim from the order. In this regard, we shall receive from our service provider exclusively a probability value (score value), but no more extensive details. Upon the basis of this value, we shall then assess whether the requested payment method can be offered. After completing the assessment, we shall delete the score value and not store it with the order data. Thus, it is also not possible for us to subsequently assess why, for example, a certain payment method was not possible.
You are entitled to extensive rights with regards to the processing of your personal data. First of all, you shall have a comprehensive right to information and may, as required, demand the correction and/or deletion and/or blocking of your personal data. You may also demand a restriction of the processing and also have a right of objection. With regards to the personal data which you have provided to us, you shall also have a right to data portability.
If you would like to assert one of your rights and/or would like to receive detailed information in this regard, please contact our Customer Service Division. Alternatively, you can also contact our Data Protection Officer.
Revocation of the Consent and Right of Objection
Consent granted by you may be freely revoked at any time with effectiveness for the future. By revoking the consent, the legality of the processing undertaken based upon the consent until such consent is revoked shall not be affected. The contact persons in this regard shall likewise be our Customer Service Division and our Data Protection Officer.
Insofar as the processing of your personal data is not based upon consent, but rather upon another legal basis, you can object to this data processing. Your objection shall result in an examination and, as required, the discontinuation of the data processing. You shall be notified of the results of the examination and, insofar as the data processing is supposed to be nonetheless continued, you shall receive detailed information from us regarding why the data processing is permissible.
For questions related to our handling of personal data or additional information regarding data protection law themes, our internal Data Protection Coordinator would be glad to assist you:
E-Mail: datenschutz spam@spam.de optibelt.com
If you are of the belief that our processing of your personal data does not comply with this Data Protection Statement or the applicable data protection guidelines, you shall be entitled to submit a complaint to a government supervisory agency. You may also submit a complaint to our Data Protection Officer. The Data Protection Officer shall then review the matter and notify you of the results of the examination.
Our online website can contain links to other websites. As a rule, these links shall be labelled as such. We have no control over to what extent the valid data protection guidelines are followed on the linked websites. Thus, we recommend that you also review the respective Data Protection Statements on the other websites.
Changes in This Data Protection Statement
The version of this Data Protection Statement shall be identified by the date (below) when it was created. We reserve the right to, at any time, make changes to this Data Protection Statement with effectiveness for the future. We shall make changes to this Data Protection Statement particularly in the event of technical adaptations of the online website or changes to the data protection law guidelines. The respectively current version of the Data Protection Statement shall always be directly accessible via the online website. We recommend that you review the changes to this Data Protection Statement upon a regular basis.
Clarivate has released the 2022 update to its annual Journal Citation Reports (JCR). The annual JCR release helps the research community to evaluate the world’s high-quality academic journals using a range of indicators, descriptive data and visualisations. The reports are used by academic publishers across the globe to understand the scholarly impact of their journals relative to their field and promote them to the research community. 
The JCR is based on 2021 data compiled from the Web of Science Core Collection, a collection of journals, books and conference proceedings in the world's largest publisher-neutral global citation database. Publications are evaluated by  a global team of  in-house editors at Clarivate. The data  from selected content are  then curated to ensure  accuracy in the JCR metrics, together with a wide body of descriptive data. These insights enable researchers, publishers, editors, librarians and funders to explore the key drivers of a journal's value for diverse audiences.
The report shows that Covid-19 continues to influence every aspect of scholarly publishing, just as it has affected every aspect of society .
Nandita Quaderi, editor-in-chief and vice president editorial, Web of Science at Clarivate, said: 'Through the carefully selected and curated data within the Journal Citation Reports, we can fully appreciate and understand the enormous impact of the academic community’s rapid response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
'As researchers explored the origins, spread and ramifications of the virus, working at speed to create new therapies and vaccines, we see this reflected in the trusted insights contained in the annual JCR. The effects of this pandemic will continue to be seen in the literature and citation impact for decades, particularly under the lens of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 3 on Health and Wellbeing. We are proud to support the research community and the UN SDGs with expertly curated data that informs decisions and helps them accelerate the pace of innovation.'
This year’s release sees continued notable increases in citation impact for journals in the fields of general medicine, critical care, public health, infectious diseases, immunology and basic biomedical sciences:
This year The Lancet's Journal Impact Factor (JIF) of 202.731 has moved it to the #1 position in the general & internal medicine category, overtaking the New England Journal of Medicine, which has been the top-ranked title in that category since the first release of the JCR 45 years ago. Of the 10 articles with the highest citation count in 2021, three appeared in The Lancet. All three are directly related to the characterisation and treatment of Covid-19;
This year Nature earns the distinction of being the first ever journal to accumulate more than one million total citations in one year. Nature published 16 items with more than 500 JIF citations – of which 12 items were Covid-19 related; and
Seven journals had JIFs of more than 100 for the first time, all of which published high quantities of Covid-19 related research. These are the Journal of the American Medical Association, The Lancet, Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, Nature Reviews Immunology, Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology and the New England Journal of Medicine.
Upholding research integrity and a new type of citation distortion
To support objectivity in journal selection and the integrity of the reports, Clarivate has suppressed three journals from the JCR (without presumption or accusation of wrong doing), representing 0.01% of the journals listed. Clarivate monitors and excludes journals that demonstrate anomalous citation behavior including where there is evidence of excessive journal self-citation and/or citation stacking. The methodology and parameters for the effect of journal self-citation on JCR metrics were updated in 2020 to better account for discipline norms. The suppression of a journal from the JCR does not equate to a de-listing from the Web of Science Core Collection.  
In addition, this year the editorial integrity team at Clarivate identified a new type of anomalous citation behaviour: self stacking. This is where the journal contains one or more documents with citations that are highly concentrated to the JIF numerator of the title itself.  This is the first year the company have formally defined the criteria for self-stacking suppression, and as such made the decision to issue a warning to six journals rather than suppress the journal’s JIF. Going forward, continued journal self-stacking will result in suppression of JIF, Clarivate says.  
The Journal Citation Reports contains more than 21,000 journals, from 254 research categories and 114 countries. This includes:
12,800 science journals;
6,600 social science journals;
3,000 arts and humanities journals;
Almost 13,000 journals have at least one gold open access publication;
More than 5,300 journals publish all of their content via open access; and
192 journals received a Journal Impact Factor for the first time.
Each journal profile in the JCR provides a rich array of journal intelligence metrics and allows users to filter by category and rank. These include:  
The Journal Citation Indicator, which represents the average category-normalised citation impact for papers published in the prior three-year period. All journals in the JCR are eligible to receive this metric as of 2021;  
The Immediacy Index, which measures how frequently the journal’s content is cited within the same year as publication;  
The journal’s rank in category, determined by Journal Impact Factor, expressed as a percentile;  
Cited half-life, which is the median age, in years, of items in the journal that were cited during the JCR year; and 
The Journal Impact Factor, which is given to journals in SCIE and SSCI, and which scales the citations received to recent content by a measure of the size of the journal’s scholarly output.
In addition the Journal Citation Reports include descriptive data such as open access content, top contributing institutions and regions.
Visit the  Journal Citation Reports  website  to explore all available data, metrics and analysis. You can find more information including the Clarivate suppression policy in the Journal Citation Reports Reference Guide.
BACKGROUND READING: Nandita Quaderi,editor-in-chief and vice president of Web of Science Editorial, explains how Covid-19 continues to affect the citation network, and introduces a new kind of citation distortion
Journal Citation Reports website
Library news
Publishing news
Industry trends
Clarivate
Web of Science
Journals
Citation
Covid-19
Latest issue
Research Information Autumn 2022
The critical range of publishing platforms
Publishing platforms are digital solutions that are principally designed to help publishers and authors to evaluate and disseminate content
The possibilities of open science
Research Information spoke to four experts in the field about the ongoing move to open science, and the challenges that have emerged in an increasingly complex open-science ecosystem
Bridging the gap with video
Siân Harris considers the use of video in scholarly communications today and the challenges and opportunities for the future
Support for early-career researchers
Six university presses join forces to support early-career researchers from 2022 to 2025 with the OpenUP initiative
‘We’re prioritising the in-person event to the highest degree’
Leah Hinds, executive director, Charleston Hub, gives us the details of the new and improved conference taking place in November, including session and speaker information, as well as insights into what’s new this year
Photo credit: Olwenn Ní Dhubhghaill
Debunking digital myths
Sabine Louët uncovers three myths about digital research dissemination and shares lessons she has learned
Five industry leaders on the future of publishing platforms
As the move towards open science and FAIR data progresses, platform providers are facing new challenges. Five industry figures tell Tim Gillett what comes next
Maryam Bazargan
Interview
'Fast publication can save lives!'
River Valley Technologies director Maryam Bazargan describes her early career, 10 years of working with her brother Kaveh, and her love of languages and cultures
SKF bearings heat treatment coating technology-The latest News,Technology,Industry,Environment,Low Carbon,Resource,Innovations
Home > Tech > SKF bearings heat treatment coating technology
There are two methods for SKF bearings heat treatment coating technology.
One method is to use PVD to coat the surface of bearings rings and rolling elements with extremely high hardness diamond ring carbon (DLC). The surface hardness is 40~80% higher than that of hardened bearings steel. The friction coefficient is similar to PTFE or MoS2. Has self-lubricating properties. , It has good bonding with the substrate and does not peel off. The life and wear resistance of SKF bearings are greatly improved, and they can still work normally under the condition of cutting oil. They are called "wear-free bearings";
The second is to use PSC to spray a layer of aluminum oxide with a thickness of 100μm on the outer circumference of the SKF bearing outer ring, so that the insulation capacity of the bearing can reach more than 1000V, and the bearing has a higher insulation capacity by increasing the thickness of the aluminum oxide . The coated alumina is firmly bonded to the substrate and can also improve the corrosion resistance of SKF bearings. Electroplated bearings can be installed like ordinary bearings.
Low temperature ion vulcanization is a surface modification technology that emerged in the late 1980s.
The basic principle is similar to ion nitriding. Under a certain degree of vacuum, high-voltage direct current ionizes sulfur-containing gas. The generated sulfide ions bombard the surface of the workpiece and react with the iron on the surface of the workpiece to form a sulfide with a thickness of about 10 μm, which is mainly composed of FeS. Physical layer. Sulfide is a good solid lubricant that can effectively reduce the friction coefficient of the steel contact surface, and with the increase of the load, the friction coefficient is further reduced, so it can greatly improve the wear resistance of the bearing under heavy load and prolong its use The number of bearing seats of SKF bearings can be increased by about 3 times.
The quality of heat treatment is directly related to the quality of subsequent treatment, which will ultimately affect the performance and life of the parts. At the same time, heat treatment is also a major energy consumer and major polluter in the machinery industry.
In recent years, with the progress of science and technology and its application in heat treatment, the development of heat treatment technology is mainly reflected in the following aspects:
Wastewater, waste gas, waste salt, dust, noise and electromagnetic radiation produced by heat treatment will pollute the environment. In order to solve the environmental pollution problem of heat treatment, the implementation of clean heat treatment (or green environment heat treatment) is one of the development directions of heat treatment technology in developed countries. In order to reduce the emissions of SO 2, CO, CO 2, dust and coal slag, the use of coal as fuel has been basically eliminated, and the use of heavy oil has become less and less. Most light oil is used. Natural gas is still the most ideal fuel. The waste heat utilization rate of the burner has reached a very high level. The optimization of the burner structure and the strict control of the air-fuel ratio ensure that NOx and CO are minimized under the premise of reasonable combustion. Gas carburizing and carbonitriding technology is adopted, and vacuum heat treatment technology is used to replace salt bath treatment to reduce the pollution of wastewater and CN toxic substances to water sources; water-soluble synthetic quenching oil is used to replace part of quenching oil, and biodegradable vegetable oil is used to replace part of it Mineral oil to reduce oil pollution.
Precision heat treatment has two meanings: On the one hand, it uses physical metallurgical knowledge and advanced computer simulation and testing technology to optimize process parameters according to the requirements of parts, materials and structure dimensions to achieve the required performance or maximize the use of materials. On the one hand, it is sufficient to ensure the stability of the optimization process, achieve small (or zero) product quality dispersion and zero heat treatment distortion.
Scientific production and energy management are the most potential factors for the effective use of energy. It is the choice of scientific management to establish a professional heat treatment plant to ensure full production and give full play to the equipment capabilities. In terms of heat treatment energy structure, primary energy is preferable. Make full use of waste heat and waste heat; low energy consumption, short cycle technology is used to replace long cycle, high energy consumption technology.
4. Less non-oxidizing heat treatment
From heating with a protective atmosphere instead of heating with an oxidizing atmosphere to heating with a controlled atmosphere that precisely controls the carbon and nitrogen potentials, the performance of the parts after heat treatment is improved, the heat treatment defects such as decarburization and cracking are greatly reduced, and the heat treatment The amount of finish processing improves the material utilization rate and processing efficiency. Vacuum heating gas quenching, vacuum or low-pressure carburizing, nitriding, nitrocarburizing and boronizing can significantly improve quality, reduce deformation and extend service life.
The heat treatment quality control of bearing parts is the most stringent in the entire machinery industry. SKF bearing heat treatment has made considerable progress in the past 20 years, mainly in the following aspects: basic theoretical research on heat treatment; research on heat treatment technology and application technology; development of new heat treatment equipment and related technologies.
Logic Behind Why Marijuana is known as a different Amount of Remedies8555 – Viet My Visa
Logic Behind Why Marijuana is known as a different Amount of Remedies8555
The medical experts make it obvious that cannabis can be used probably the most and trusted method of dealing with HIV, Tools, Glaucoma and Parkinson's disease people. Person who is suffering from several life threatening illnesses have the only expect of receiving speedy and profitable remedy as opposed to the classic and regular method of getting therapy. The medical expert and scientific study has placed lot of stress around the status authorities to legalize medical weed. Immediately after studying all of the point federal government has legalized this cannabis for the treatment inside the status using the state that she or he must have the health care weed permit for the utilization of this botanical herb. At first of legalization, there were clearly a lot of controversies about the health-related cannabis but the truth is that it must be just one greatest method of managing clients. Consequently, if you are searching for the health cannabis dispensary then you definately must buy a cannabis therapy unit card granted on your part community well being office. Here are a few crucial ideas and information with regards to the cannabis treatment method that will help in receiving medical care greeting card.
For anybody who end up enthusiastic about the healthcare industry but do not have the confident.
The medical experts are making it crystal clear that weed can be used as just about the most.
Prior to signing up for any system or study course for a health helper, allow.
Commonly, this has been recognized there are many individuals who don't stick to the.
For everyone who end up thinking about the health care field but do not have the comfortable as a doctor or even a doctor, but are eager to support other individuals and do not get the anxiety for the view of blood flow, then a health asst . might be the vocation which is well suited for you.
Health care field but do not
Prior to signing up for your plan or study course to get a medical assistant, let us visit a few of the essential advantages as being a medical associate.
The main and most crucial thing in obtaining medical therapy cards is to locate a genuine healthcare professional in your state having the permit of delivering MMJ Unit card. As soon as you use the appointment using these medical professionals, they can do an examination to actually really need treatment. After getting the health care exam report and dependant on the fitness of individual they can examine that medical attention is necessary or otherwise. When the skilled is happy about the fitness of affected individual and health record they will provide you suggestion for your medical therapy inside your particular express. After having the advice for medical therapy then you must view your health and wellbeing division where one can make application for medical marijuana permit on the health care form in addition to the fretting hand created prescribed. Following verifying every one of your documents they may problem the unit card which you can use for your healthcare cannabis treatment method as part of your particular condition.
The fitness of affected individual
Normally, it has been observed that there are many people who don't keep to the regulations and rules produced by government entities and puts on their own in danger. To acheive this procedure cards they speak to the card service provider corporations thru phone and will get capture easily on the companies who give fake unit card. Thus, it usually is easier to ask about the recommendation and recognition about the unit card provider organizations from your location applying for the advice. If anyone fails by doing this sometimes by deliberately or for some other good reasons they might be penalized or sometime receives jailed. While, strategy for getting healthcare weed permit is agony staking procedure but to be able to avoid the future difficulties you need to stick to the technique of finding this treatment unit card. This would definitely help out with the utilization of marijuana together with getting a powerful health cannabis treatment method.
Compare DNA Testing Kits | Find the right DNA testing kit for you.
What DNA test are you looking for?
Some people want to connect and discover relatives, or past relatives connected to them. I wanted to know more about my genetic make-up. My friends were interested in learning where their "Motherland" originated from. There are many DNA Testing Kits so which one is right for you?
Compare the different DNA Testing Kits below. Some DNA companies have a genetic pool of data they are comparing it too from ancient archives positioning your origins on Earth. Others might be analyzing your DNA in comparison to the population and who you match up with. Each of them have their unique reason for taking the test. Compare and understand which test is best for you.
Compare the best DNA Testing Kits on the market today!
Price $99 $99-$199 $199 $149 $159
Test Type Saliva Saliva Cheek Swab Saliva Mouth Swab
Results Returned 6-8 Weeks 6-8 Weeks 3-4 Weeks 6-12 Weeks 10-12 Weeks
Database Size Claims 4 Million Tested 2+ Million Tested 800,000 Markers 800,000 Tested unknown
GPS Origins™ is a revolutionary DNA test for ancestry that takes you deep into your family history. Most ancestry tests provide a report of your "ethnicity" and locate parts of your DNA in broad continental sweeps, but nothing specific, not even to the country level. GPS Origins™ combines the latest genetic research with a new ancestral tracking technique to pinpoint more precisely where your DNA began.
Depression is a mental illness disorder that affects millions of people each year. According to a major study on depression in 2013, it is estimated that 1 in 10 people over the age of 18 have a form of depression, totaling over 15 million people in the U.S. It is estimated that 17% of the population will experience a major depressive episode during the course of their life. Put in perspective, that is close to 1 and 5 people will experience a depressive episode during their life.
There are three common types of depression including major depression, persistent depressive disorder (PDD), and bipolar disorder. The effects of depression vary person-to-person and disorder-to-disorder. It is important to understand the difference between the different types of depression in order to appropriately treat the particular disorder.
Major depressive is classified as being sad and unhappy for two weeks or longer and feelings of hopeless, helpless, and worthless. In addition to an extended period of sadness, a two-week people experiencing depression also have a hard time finding enjoyment in things that once brought them joy and happiness in everyday life. Differentiating between short-lived moments of sadness and depression can be challenging since everyone experiences hard times throughout their lives. Speaking with a medical professional can be helpful for many people to determine whether they are depressed or they are going through a temporary hard time.
Persistent Depressive Disorder (PDD) is a form of depression that last for at least 2 years. In children and adolescents, one year or longer of depressive symptoms can be diagnosed as Persistent Depressive Disorder. PDD is usually not as severe than major depression, but the symptoms are very similar to major depression.
Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive illness, is a form of depression and it is classified as experiencing severe mood swings. A person who is diagnosed with bipolar disorder usually is extremely happy one day and then shows symptoms of depression such as severe sadness the next day. People with Bipolar disorder usually have many more lows than highs. While research continues on bipolar disorder, there continues to be no one factor that leads to the mental illness.
While there are many resemblances among people affected by depression, there are some notable differences between men and women when it comes to depression. Female specific depression conditions include premenstrual problems, pregnancy and infertility, postpartum depression, and menopause.
To complicate diagnoses, women often experience what is called atypical depression. This means that instead of eating less, women eat more, and instead sleeping less, women sleep more.
Men are usually less willing to seek help for depression or admitting to being depressed. If a man seeks help for depression, it can be seen as a weakness leading them to seek help less than women. When evaluating symptoms of depression in men, it is important to know that not all signs and symptoms are the same as common depression symptoms. For instance, instead of feeling sad for an extended period of time, men often get angry and irritable for an extended duration. Instead of using friends and food for support, men often turn to alcohol, TV, and sports to self medicate.
When adults move into their golden years, there are many changes older adults and seniors experience in which they are not prepared for. Through these changes, it’s not uncommon for a senior to experience a major depressive episode. Common changes among older adults that can lead to depression include medical problems, retirement, loss of loved ones and friends, and isolation. Some of the standard signs and symptoms of depression in seniors include; social withdrawal, sadness, fatigue, weight loss or loss of appetite, loss of self worth, sleep issues, and suicidal thoughts or attempts. Often time’s, seniors are more likely to get angry versus sad as they go through depression.
During the teenage years, there are a dozens, if not hundreds of changes that teens must cope with and adapt to. These changes can include; puberty, social pressures, and trying to find out who they are and where they fit into society. When looking at signs of depression in teens and adolescents, it’s important to understand they also have a unique set of signs and symptoms compared to adults.
While sadness is common among many adults who are depressed, teens are more likely to show anger, aggression, and hostility. Teens who are depressed sometimes deal with these pressures by using alcohol and drugs, running away, participating in reckless behavior, and sometimes can resort to violence.
The causes of depression are not fully understood yet in the medical field, but it’s generally a combination of environmental, biological, genetic, and psychological factors. While there may one event that triggers a depressive episode, there are usually a number of underlying factors that need to be addressed as well.
Major depressive episodes can be caused by situational events such as a loss of a loved one or friend, relationship problems, divorce, loss of a job, financial trouble, personal accident or trauma, social pressures, and other instances that can affect a person’s overall well being.
While depressive condition is usually genetic, it can also happen to those who have no family history of depression.
After being diagnosed with depression, a combination of psychological sessions / treatments and medication is common when treating people for depression. Unlike illnesses that can be treated with prescribed medication or surgery, changes in choices that led to the depressive episode and therapy are both instrumental in treatment and recovery.
At Peak Behavioral Health Services in El Paso, TX, patients go through a free evaluation and if a form of depression is diagnosed, we then work with the patient and involved parties to come up with a personalized treatment plan for recovery.
Combined with the PSL PSL 611-15-1 bearing in Tokelau Is. , PSL PSL 611-15-1 bearing in Tokelau Is. has the most complete product outline in rolling bearing industry .PSL PSL 611-15-1 bearing in Tokelau Is. provide customers with a series of comprehensive and perfect service and technical support. The main application areas of PSL PSL 611-15-1 bearing in Tokelau Is.: aerospace engineering, metal cutting machine tools, steel processing equipment,paper making machinery, cement machinery, engineering machinery and mechanical vibration, environmental protection equipment, packaging machinery and so on.The main types of PSL PSL 611-15-1 bearing in Tokelau Is. : deep groove ball bearings, angular contact ball bearings, cylindrical roller bearings, thrust ball bearings, thrust roller bearings, joint bearings, etc.."
PSL as – Your specialist for rolling bearings and slewing rings Quick Contact 421424371 460 PSL as PSL has been a producer and bearing rollers PSL
Alfred was Goat's grampa who died in the strip. He later appears when a swami is contacting the dead.
Dr. Praveena Gangadharan
praveenag@iitpkd.ac.in
http://www.praveena.in
Praveena_CV.pdf
2018- Present, Assistant Professor, IIT Palakkad
2017-18, Assistant Professor, A. P. J. Abdul Kalam Technical University, Kerala, India
2014-17, Women Scientist (Sponsored by Department of Science and Technology), Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India
2008-12, Assistant Professor, M. G. University, Kerala, India
Ph.D., Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, India, in the year 2017
M-Tech in Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering, Trivandrum, Kerala University, Kerala, India, in the year 2008
B-Tech in Civil Engineering, College of Engineering, Trivandrum, Kerala University, Kerala, India, in the year 2006
Bioelectrochemical systems for wastewater treatment; Desalination; Defluoridation; Nutrient Recovery from urine; Metal reduction and recovery.
CE4502: Hazardous Waste Management
ID1010 : Ecology and Environment
CE3025: Environmental Engineering
CE3080: Hydraulic and Environmental Engineering Laboratory
CE3030: Environmental Engineering
Reiva Sibi (Ph.D. Scholar)
Sabarija M (Ph.D. Scholar)
Dr. Anitha V (Research Assistant)
Metal reduction/recovery
Electrochemical water/waste treatment
1. Gangadharan, P., & Nambi, I. M. Feasibility Study of Disposed LCD Monitor and Carbon Cloth Electrodes for Synchronized Removal/Recovery of Cr 6+ by Microbial Fuel Cells. International Journal of Environmental Science and Development, 8(8), 557-560
2. Gangadharan, P., Nambi, I. M., Senthilnathan, J. & Pavithra V.M. Heterocyclic aminopyrazine-reduced graphene oxide coated carbon cloth electrode as an active bio-electrocatalyst for extracellular electron transfer in microbial fuel cells. RSC Adv., 6, 68827-68834, Impact Factor: 3.3
3. Gangadharan, P., Nambi, I. M., & Senthilnathan, J. Liquid crystal polaroid glass electrode from e-waste for synchronized removal/recovery of Cr+ 6 from wastewater by microbial fuel cell. Bioresource technology, 195, 96-101, Impact factor: 6.102
4. Gangadharan, P., & Nambi, I. M. Hexavalent chromium reduction and energy recovery by using dual-chambered microbial fuel cell. Water Science and Technology, 71(3), 353-358, Impact factor: 1.212
Early career research award from SERB-DST.
Best Poster Award, for the paper titled "Efficiency in Chromium removal from metal plating industry effluent by Electrodialysis" at the International Conference on Desalination (InDACON-2018), held at NIT, Tiruchirappalli, Tamilnadu, India during 20-21 April 2018
Magudam Award from News 18 Channel , Tamil Nadu, Awarded by the Honorable Vice President of India Mr. Venkaiah Naidu in the year 2017 for the innovation of generating electricity from E-Wastes
Bhagyalakshmi and Krishna Ayengar Award, Received from Dr. Bhaskar Ramamurthi (Director of IIT M) and Mr. Nandan Nilekani, Co–founder of Infosys and former chairman of UIAD during the 54th convocation held on at IIT Madras for the best Ph.D. project under the category of pollution in the year 2017
Finalist of Carbon Zero Challenge, organized by the IIT Madras and IWMA with support from U.S. Consulate General, Chennai for the Incubation of Microbial Fuel Cell Technology in the year 2017
Best Paper Award in the ICESD-2017 conference held at Frankfurt University of Applied Science, Frankfurt, Germany
Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award in the year 2015, Received from Dr. R.A. Mashelkar (Chairperson, NIF) during the festival of innovations hosted by the Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi for inventing E-Waste as electrode in Microbial Fuel Cell for the removal/recovery of wastewater along with energy production
Best Poster Award in the AP-ISMET Meeting at National University of Singapore, Singapore, in the year 2014
Women Scientist Scheme -A (WoSA) from the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, for developing Microbial Fuel Cell technology for the removal/recovery of wastewater along with energy production in the year 2014
Editorial member, International Journal of Environmental Science Studies
Member, International Society for Microbial Electrochemistry and Technology
Title: Integrating wastewater treatment to groundwater softening and defluoridation using microbial desalination cell; Role : PI; Funding Agency: SERB, India; Duration: 2019-2022; Total amount = 35.2 lakhs.
Title: Energy positive microbial osmotic-electro desalination cell for wastewater treatment and high-quality water recovery; Role : PI; Funding Agency: SERB, India; Duration: 2019-2022; Total amount = 39.95 lakhs.
Gangadharan, P., & Nambi, I. M. 2014-2017. Wastewater treatment coupled with resource recovery and energy production using microbial fuel cell. DST Women Scientist Award fellowship (WoS A), (Amount: Rs. 20.95 lakh).
Title: CLEANEXT-Energy positive treatment technology for the Removal/Recovery of hexavalent chromium; Role: Mentor; Funding Agency: Carbon Zero Challenge, IIT Madras and IWMA with support from U.S. Consulate General; Duration: 2017-2018; Total amount = 5 lakhs.
Speaker to the women's Conclave on 8th March 2019 organized by DST –JNU, Delhi. (Title of the talk: My trust with destiny in research)
Resource person to FDP on Recent Advances in Fuel Cells, funded by APJ Abdul Kalam University from 8th to 12th July 2019 in SJCET, Palai.(Title of the talk: Microbial fuel cells-A sustainable approach to harvest renewable energy from waste)
Expert Speaker to E-Waste World Conference & Expo 2019 from 14-15 November 2019 at the Kap Europa, Frankfurt Messe, Germany. (Title of the talk: Wastewater treatment using E-Waste
Distinguished Speaker to International Conference on Advanced Nanomaterials during December 12-13, 2019 at Chettinad College of Engineering and Technology, Karur, Tamil Nadu, INDIA. (Title of the talk: Wastewater Treatment Coupled with Resource Recovery using Microbial Fuel Cell)
Attended a workshop, titled "Upscaling and field-scale application of bio-electrochemical systems for wastewater treatment and bioenergy recovery" on February 26-27, 2020 at Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur.
Anxiety Specialist - Bethesda, MD & Baileys, VA: Washington Center for Women's and Children's Wellness (WCWCW): Child, Adolescent, Women’s & Reproductive Psychiatry
Call Us Request Appointment Patient Portal
Home
Our Practice
Our Space
Frequently Asked Questions
Careers
Resources
Clinicians
Telemedicine
Our Specialties
General
Mental Health
Psychiatry
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
Medication Management
Psychotherapy
Women's Psychiatry
Mood Disorders
Anxiety Disorders
Life Transitions
Adult ADHD
Reproductive Psychiatry
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD)
Pre-pregnancy Consultation
Mood and Anxiety Disorders in Pregnancy
Medication In Pregnancy
Postpartum Depression
Postpartum Psychosis
Infertility
Pregnancy Loss
Perimenopause
Menopause
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
ADHD
Child & Adolescent Anxiety Disorders
OCD
Depression
Behavioral Issues
Psychotherapy
Subscribe
Patient Portal
Blog
Reviews
Patient Reviews
Contact
Anxiety Specialist
Washington Center for Women's and Children's Wellness (WCWCW) Our Services Anxiety
Tweet
Washington Center for Women's and Children's Wellness (WCWCW)
Child, Adolescent, Women’s & Reproductive Psychiatry located in Bethesda, MD and offering Telehealth appointments in Maryland, Virginia, DC, Florida and Michigan
It’s normal to feel restless and anxious every now and then. It’s time to seek help, however, when that anxious feeling becomes persistent, causes physical symptoms, or interferes with your ability to function. Our specialists at WCWCW in Bethesda, Maryland, offer the supportive care you need to overcome the challenges of anxiety disorder. Don’t let this common mental health issue continue to disrupt your life. We provide the same high-quality service via telehealth for patients living in Maryland, DC, Virginia, Michigan, and Florida. Call our office or request an appointment online today.
Request Appointment
Anxiety Q & A
All Services > Our Specialties > Women's Psychiatry > Anxiety Disorders
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) Panic Disorder Phobias Health Anxiety
What is anxiety disorder?
Anxiety disorder is a general term for several types of mental health disorders that cause unreasonable or exaggerated feelings of worry, fear, or dread at certain times or in certain situations.
You may also note physical symptoms of anxiety that can include:
Heart palpitations
Excessive sweating
Shortness of breath
Nausea
A sensation that your throat is closing
Chest pain
Excessively tight muscles
WCWCW can help. Call our office or request an appointment online today.
These symptoms are related to chemical changes within your body driven by the unrelenting fear you’re experiencing. They are part of your brain’s natural fight-or-flight response to danger.
What are the different types of anxiety disorders?
There are several types of anxiety disorder that can affect women, the most common of which include:
Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD)
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) features a pattern of unwanted thoughts and fears (obsessions) that lead you to do repetitive behaviors (compulsions). These obsessions and compulsions interfere with daily activities and cause significant distress.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)
GAD causes a sometimes seemingly constant flow of worry over various issues such as work or home life, relationships, or your health. Individuals with GAD often note their thoughts simply move from one worrisome topic to another throughout their day.
Panic disorder
Panic disorder is characterized by sudden and very intense feelings of panic that may be best described as terror. These attacks can occur without warning for no apparent reason or when you’re facing a situation you dread, such as a public speaking obligation or project presentation at work.
Panic attacks cause symptoms that can mimic a heart attack and often make you feel as if you’re dying.
Phobias
Phobias are intense fears of certain social situations, objects, or animals that you may try to avoid. Individuals with agoraphobia may eventually isolate themselves at home rather than risk a public panic attack.
Health Anxiety
Health anxiety is very common. Individuals with health anxiety have a preoccupation with the belief that they have or will soon develop a serious illness. Those with health anxiety will often misinterpret normal bodily sensations, such as a headache, to mean that there is something seriously wrong. Similarly, they may hear about someone falling ill and then begin to scan their bodies for signs of similar illness, which often results in their finding some evidence to make them believe they will be getting sick soon.
How do you treat anxiety disorders?
Treatment plans offered at WCWCW are tailored to each patient and their unique situation. Plans include a full diagnostic evaluation followed by evidence-based therapies that offer relief from the devastating effects of anxiety.
Our specialists at WCWCW in Bethesda, Maryland, offer the supportive care you need to overcome the challenges of bipolar disorder. We provide the same high-quality service via telehealth for patients living in Maryland, DC, Virginia, Michigan, and Florida. Call our office or request an appointment online today.
Control Of My High Level Sugar - MedsChat
Sat, Aug 29 '15, 11:33 PM
Recently my fasting sugar count goes very high (200-220) I suffer from RLS (Rest less legs Syndrome) Dr. has increased my insulin to 36 units in the morning 40 units at night
and also added Glycomet -500 S.R. need your views if this is on right track. Also do they have any pedometers to help above 75 years patient to help keep daily tag on calories consumed on walk and food in take to keep check and motivate to improve overall. we have only to count steps and sugar burnt not of much use of me with less on walking please help
Mon, Feb 27 '17, 11:02 PM
There is no age level on pedometers, you can use any one you like to keep track of your activity throughout the day, to set your goals and try to beat them by setting new ones. Which one you purchase really depends on what you can afford, there are basic ones that can just help you keep track of your daily activity, as well as advanced ones that are more expensive and can also cover your calorie intake, calories burned, and etc. I love my Apple Watch, it suits my needs perfectly, but it is rather expensive and has a ton of features that not everyone may need.
As to your sugar level, what types of foods do you eat? If you eat a lot of sweet foods, or a lot of fatty foods, both can cause elevated sugar levels, according to the NIH. Even seeming healthy foods, such as fruits, usually contain a lot of sugar that can cause your levels to go up. Fats are also a problem, since they can coat your cells and prevent your body from using such sugars, as it should.
SUGAR LEVEL CONTROL WAY
My age is 30 years.I am suffering from type two diabetic.My sugar level is fasting 172 and pp 263 .Dr advised me Triglyn... 1 reply
bsl control 500 for stabilizing blood sugar levels
I received a flyer and like others, this supplement seems too good to be true. Not much on the web on this either and th...
gemer 2gemer 1 is ok for me with high level of blood sugar
gemer 2 and gemer 1 is ok for me with high blood sugar fasting 14 ## These medications are used to help lower blood suga... 1 reply
Control of Blood Pressures and Sugar
My Sugar Level is 198 on fasting and knee joints are paining too much even Blood Pressures are 90/140.all fingers gettin... 1 reply
I Am Diagonised With Gilberts Syndrom A Type2 Diabetic Fatty Liver My Sgot Sgpt Is High For The Past 3 Years How Does Orsocol Help In Controling Bilir
Iam a type-2 diabetic for the past 10 years taking insulin 15 - 15. 3 Years back I was d diagonised with fatty liver and... 1 reply
glim 1 mg - Why my sugar level goes down
Doctor told me to take glim 1mg just after meal but I took after 4 hours once I checked my blood sugar level was 277 in ... 1 reply
blood sugar not under control
I am 53yrs old male.I was detected with DM2 3 yrs back.I am on medication since then. In April, doctor advised me to tak... 2 replies
diabetic control blood sugar
I am male 58 yrs my sugar level is fasting 108 and pp 177, I am not taking medicine, please advice should I take any med...
sir i am taking one tablet Tonact 10 to reduce my cholostral i found my sugar 99 128 please tell mewheather the sugar level is increasing by tonct 10
sir i am taking one tablet Tonact 10 to reduce my cholostral i found my sugar 99-128. please tell mewheather the sugar l...
I Have Been Prescribed Glycomet Sr 500 Want To Know If It Is Meant Control Sugar Because Diagnized As Diabetic
Last month I was diagnised as sugar patient with 240/370 level (F/PP) but with the change in lifestyl i stopped taking s... 1 reply
Hot flushes and Pain swallowing and Stool symptoms and Sweating - Symptom Checker - check medical symptoms at RightDiagnosis
""Hello, my name is Dr. Louis Hiotis and I am the Principal Investigator at Michigan Avenue Internists. Thank you for taking the time to visit our website. I invite you to read more about our site below and I look forward to welcoming you here in the near future" "
Our site is located on Michigan Avenue along the famous “Magnificent mile” in Chicago, IL. Dr. Hiotis is board certified in Pediatric and Internal Medicine and has been involved in clinical research since 2014 with Michigan Avenue internists. The site has 2 Sub Investigators board certified in Allergy and immunology as well as Internal Medicine and has a dedicated research space with two research coordinators. Our site is located near the corner of Adams and Michigan avenue, once in the building, locate the lobby elevators just past the lobby desk and travel to the 8th floor. Once on the 8th floor turn right and you will find suite 805 Michigan Avenue Internists where you can check in with the receptionist.
