The correlation between obesity and prostate volume in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia at Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital | African Journal of Urology | Full Text
Eshely Mampa ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-4361-77001,
Mohamed Haffejee2 &
Pascaline Fru3
African Journal of Urology volume 27, Article number: 60 (2021) Cite this article
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is on the increase placing a substantial burden on health care systems. Recent studies have shown that men with high body mass index (BMI) and central obesity, as denoted by waist circumference (WC) have bigger prostate volumes (PV) with subsequent increase in lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) than men with normal BMI. The purpose of this research was to investigate the correlation between Obesity and PV in patients with BPH.
The study included 178 men aged between 50 and 75 years with BPH seen at Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg academic hospital (CMJAH) Urology Outpatient Department between September 2018 and February 2019. Weight and height measurements were obtained to calculate BMI. Furthermore, WC was measured using a measuring tape, while a transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) was used to measure PV. Patient demographics, clinical characteristics such as hypertension, diabetes, smoking and prostate specific antigen (PSA) were also noted.
Patients in the study had a mean age of 64.87 ± 6.526 years and the mean BMI was 27.31 ± 3.933 kg/m2. The mean PV of each BMI group were 52.92 ± 38.49, 61.00 ± 33.10 and 64.86 ± 37.46 cm3 for normal, overweight and obese groups, respectively, and the average PV score was 59.36 ± 36.507 cm3. The mean PSA score was 4.30 ± 3.126 with a range of 1.3–6.4, while the mean WC was 98.67 cm. There was no correlation between BMI and PV (p value = 0.195) as well as between PV and WC, hypertension, diabetes or smoking. The results revealed that the relationship between PV with PSA level as well as age was significant (p value = 0.001, p value = 0.009, respectively).
The results showed no correlation between BMI and PV. Diabetes and hypertension as well had no positive correlation with PV. A follow-up study may be indicated to look at the correlation between obesity, LUTS and urinary flow rates to establish whether aggressive management of obesity would have significant impact on the management of BPH.
BPH is a common condition in older men with an extensive burden on the health care system. Up to 75% of men over the age of 60 are affected and health care expenditure is consumed on outpatient medication [1]. The prevalence of obesity also increases with age and prostatic growth may be accentuated with obesity [2].
There are many mechanisms that have been postulated by which obesity exacerbates BPH. Obesity increases intra-abdominal pressure, which raises intravesical pressure, in turn worsening or causing BPH symptoms such as hesitancy, poor urine stream and nocturia [3]. The inflammatory ensuing activity and oxidative stress associated with obesity are other proposed mechanisms by which obesity worsens BPH.
Central obesity accentuates microvascular disease and inflammation, leading to ischemia and oxidative stress favourable to BPH [4]. Chronic inflammation causes the release of pro-growth cytokines and various other growth factors [5]. Another hypothesis is alteration of endocrine status, with raised estrogen to androgen ratio. Increased adipose tissue increases aromatase activity and the conversion of androgen to estrogen. Increased estrogen by adipose tissue causes suppression of gonadotropins, leading to reduction in testosterone levels, a mechanism favoured in the development of BPH [6].
Although there are many criteria in classifying patient's BMI and WC required to make the diagnosis of obesity, literature has shown similar outcomes, that obesity increases the risk of BPH while worsening LUTS [7,8,9,10,11,12]. Even though it is easy to calculate, BMI has its drawbacks, including its inability to differentiate between muscle and fat, especially in the elderly. Central obesity is shown to be more detrimental than general obesity and tends to correlate more with BPH than BMI due to its ability to accelerate hormonal and systemic changes that result in inflammation [5].
The Department of Urology at our institution treats a considerable number of patients with BPH both medically and surgically and the incidence is growing as the population ages. This continues to place a substantial burden on the health care system, in this otherwise manageable condition if obesity is reduced. Recent literature has shown that the impact of obesity on prostate size may also make detection of prostate cancer difficult, leading to under-diagnosis of prostate cancer amongst men with obesity who have large prostate size [13]. In addition, declining PSA levels with rising BMI could affect early detection of prostate cancer since PSA is used as a screening tool and trigger point for prostate biopsy. This study aimed to understand the correlation between obesity and prostatic enlargement and detect a potentially modifiable risk factor for LUTS that could contribute to the epidemiologic investigation of obesity and BPH. The correlation between obesity and PSA levels as well as PV with diabetes, hypertension and smoking was also investigated.
The study was a prospective cohort analytical study. Ethics approval to conduct the study was obtained from the Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) of the University of the Witwatersrand (ethics no: M180641). In total, 178 patients between the ages of 50 and 75 seen consecutively at CMJA urology outpatient department between September 2018 and February 2019 were recruited following informed consent. The patients were divided into three subgroups according to their BMI (normal BMI 20–24.9 kg/m2, overweight BMI 25–29.9 kg/m2 and Obese BMI > 30 kg/m2). Patients diagnosed with prostate cancer, on 5α-reductase inhibitors for the treatment of BPH, with previous prostate surgery or with of BMI < 20 kg/m2 were excluded from the study.
Measurement of body weight and height were done and BMI was derived by dividing weight in kilograms by height in meters. Waist circumferences were measured using a tape measure, while PV was measured using transrectal ultrasound. In addition, patient age, clinical characteristics such as hypertension, diabetes, smoking and PSA were also recorded.
The results were summarised by percentages and frequencies (categorical variables) and means, percentiles, or standard deviations (numerical variables). Associations between variables and outcome were investigated using contingency tables with relative risks and appropriate hypothesis testing. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to assess the relationship between BMI and PV. The relationship between variables was considered positive when the Pearson correlation (r) was greater than zero. A p value of < 0.05 was considered significant.
The sample was made up of 178 men aged between 50 and 75 years with BPH seen consecutively at CMJAH Urology Outpatient Department. Patients in the study had a mean age of 64.87 ± 6.526 years and the mean BMI was 27.31 ± 3.933 kg/m2 with the average PV score of 59.36 ± 36.507 ml. The mean PSA score was 4.30 ± 3.126 ng/ml, while the mean WC was 98.67 cm. Baseline characteristics of the participants is shown in Table 1.
Of the 178 patients, 49% (n = 88/178) had hypertension, 29% (n = 51/178) had diabetes and 21% (n = 37/178) were smokers as shown in Fig. 1.
Proportion of patients with hypertension, diabetes and smokers
It was noted that 35% (n = 62/178) of the patients had a normal BMI, another 35% (n = 62/178) were overweight and 30% (n = 54/178) were obese indicating an approximate 1:1:1 ratio (Fig. 2).
BMI and prostate volume
The mean PV of each BMI group were 52.92 ± 38.49, 61.00 ± 33.10 and 64.86 ± 37.46 cm3 for normal, overweight and obese groups, respectively, and the average PV score was 59.36 ± 36.507 cm3. Although the PV values were increasing with an increase in the BMI category, these was not statistically significant (p = 0.195) (as shown in Table 2).
Table 2 Descriptive statistics for PV (ml) for each BMI category
Correlation between PV with WC, PSA and age
Correlation between PV and each of PSA, Age, and WC was conducted using Pearson correlation statistics for all 178 participants. Pearson's correlation coefficient showed no correlation between PV and WC (r = 0.131, p value = 0.081 > 0.05). However, there was a positive correlation between PV and PSA level (r = 0.247, p value = 0.001) as well as PV and age (r = 0.195, p value = 0.009).
Correlation between PV with hypertension, diabetes, and smoking independently
The relationship between PV and hypertension, diabetes or smoking is shown in Table 3. The average PV values and p values are shown. There were no significant differences in PV in patients with or without hypertension, diabetes or those who were smokers versus non-smokers (p > 0.05).
Table 3 Relationship between PV and hypertension, diabetes or smoking
BPH is a prevalent condition with an estimated 90% of men in their 80 s demonstrating histologic evidence of the disease [14]. Previous studies have established a link between obesity and BPH [3, 7, 9, 15, 16]. Worldwide, obesity is on the rise even in countries with low socio-economic index implying it is no longer a disease of the affluent [17, 18]. This necessitated further research into the effects of obesity on PV, PSA levels and LUTS. A recent systematic review re-affirmed the aggravating effects of obesity on BPH [15].
BMI and Central obesity, as determined by the WC, are modifiable risk factors to the development of prostate disease—including BPH, prostatitis and prostate cancer [3, 10, 12, 19, 20]. Other studies have gone further and demonstrated that central obesity was the most significant predictor of PV than overall obesity [15, 21]. Our data suggest that there is no correlation between WC and PV (r = 0.131, p = 0.081). This was also true for the effect of BMI on PV whereby; obese patients generally had larger PV but the results were not statistically significant (5% CI, p = 0.195).
Lee et al. and Kim et al. arrived at a similar conclusion, that there was no link between BMI and prostate volume, leading to the conclusion that central obesity as denoted by WC > 90 cm rather than overall obesity is a predictor of prostate growth and LUTS. These findings were a result of a multicentre, prospective, cross-sectional study at four urology centres in Korea from July 2007 to May 2008 recruiting 602 patients with BPH. Men with waist circumference > 90 cm had increased prostate volume; however, they had lower PSA values than men with WC < 90 cm [21, 22].
In contrast, Lee et al. showed that prostate volume was bigger in obese and central obesity patients than in those with normal BMI. The authors analysed 146 men over the age of 40 and separated them into three groups according to their BMI and into two groups according to their WC. Significantly increased prostate size was noticeable in the obesity group than in the normal group as well as in the central obesity group than in the group with normal waist size [7]. Similarly to this Matsuda et al. and Kim et al. showed a positive correlation between BMI and prostate size; however in both these studies there was a negative correlation between BMI and prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels, whereby men with high BMI had low PSA [8, 9].
The study showed that hypertension, diabetes and smoking were quite prevalent in our population. There was no statistically significant difference in PV between the hypertensive and the non-hypertensive (p = 0.454). Similarly to our study, Li-Peng showed no correlation between BPH and hypertension [11]. This is in contrast to the findings of a 2013 South Korean study in which men with hypertension had a higher International Prostate Symptom Score as well as larger PV putting them at an increased risk of LUTS compared to the non-hypertensive [23].
Our data showed diabetic patients had slightly higher mean PV. However, the results were not statistically significant at 5% CI (p = 0.832). This finding differs with Ahmed Elabbady's study findings in which diabetes was significantly associated with lower serum PSA and testosterone, but larger PV [24]. We did not include the correlation with ethnicity and testosterone levels as an endpoint in our study, which could explain the findings in Elabbady's study.
Smoking is a known trigger of prostate inflammation—a mechanism contributing to BPH [25]. However, previous studies have shown conflicting results on the effects of smoking on PV [23, 26]. This study demonstrated that smoking had no statistically significant effect on PV (5% CI, p = 0182) despite smokers having minimally larger prostates than non-smokers. This was corroborated by a study done by Platz et al. which showed that smoking had no correlation with PV, and that it may in fact reduce PV, thus protecting against BPH [27].
The current evidence trends towards the level of both total and free PSA being directly proportional to PV [28,29,30,31]. This study confirms this relationship as our data showed a direct correlation between the level of PSA and PV (r = 0.247, p = 0001). Our findings further suggest that increasing age was associated with increased PV (r = 0.195, p = 0.009) which was in keeping with evidence from previous studies [29]. However, not all previous studies agree with these findings. Stacy Loeb et. al., found that PV was highly variable in men with BPH and a good number of aging men had stable or decreasing prostate size [32].
Currently, the medical management of BPH related LUTS is hugely reliant on the prostatic smooth muscle relaxation effects of alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers [17, 33]. This has led to a hunt for alternate therapies that may aid LUTS improvement. With the previously established link between obesity and BPH, there have been proposals to promote and incorporate lifestyle modifications and appropriate medical management as an adjunct to diseases prevention, diagnosis and therapy [15, 17, 33].
The findings of this study suggest that the routine/aggressive medical management of obesity would be of little to no benefit with regard to BPH/LUTS as there was no correlation between PV and any of hypertension, diabetes, BMI, and WC. This is supported by another study which showed that modest weight loss might not prevent the onset or progression of LUTS [34].
Like many other previous studies, some limitations of this study were a small sample size as well as the fact that it was a single centre study. Larger multicentre studies are required to establish the true effects of obesity on BPH as related to PV and LUTS.
The urology department treats a significant number of patients with BPH annually. Obesity has been cited as one of the risk factors for the development of BPH/ LUTS. In our study, there was no correlation between PV and BMI. It must be noted though that the volume of the prostate does not always correlate with the severity of LUTS. Obesity has the potential to increase intra-abdominal pressure and intravesical pressure, in turn worsening BPH symptoms independent of the PV [3]. A follow-up study is warranted to look at the correlation between obesity and LUTS and urinary flow rates and to establish whether aggressive management of obesity would have significant impact on the management of BPH.
Wei JT, Calhoun E, Jacobsen SJ et al (2005) Urologic Diseases in America project: benign prostatic hyperplasia. J Urol 1256(4):156–159
Flegal KM, Carrol MD, Ogden CL, Johnson CL (2002) Prevalence and trends in obesity among US adults, 1999–2000. J Am Med Assoc 288:1723–1727
Wang S, Mao Q, Lin Y, Wu J, Wang X, Zheng X (2012) Body mass index and risk of BPH: a meta-analysis. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 15:265–272
Chughtai B, Lee R, Te A, Kaplan S (2011) Role of inflammation in benign prostatic hyperplasia. Rev Urol 13:147–150
Penna G, Fibbi B, Amuchastegui S, Cossetti C, Aquilano F, Laverny G (2009) Human benign prostatic hyperplasia stromal cells as inducers and targets of chronic immune-mediated inflammation. J Immunol 182:4046–4064
Williams G (2012) Aromatase up-regulation, insulin and raised intracellular estrogens in men, induced adiposity, metabolic syndrome and prostate disease. Mol Cell Endocrinol 351:269–278
Lee S, Min HG, Choi SH, Kim YJ et al (2006) Central obesity as a risk factor for prostatic hyperplasia. Obesity 14:172–179
Matsuda T, Abe H, Suda K, Rinsho B (2004) Relation between benign prostatic hyperplasia and obesity and estrogen. Jpn J Clin Pathol 52(4):291–294
Kim JM, Song PH, Kim HT, Moon KH (2011) Effect of obesity on prostate-specific antigen, prostate volume, and international prostate symptom score in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia. Korean J Urol 52(6):401–405
Fowke JH, Motley SS, Cookson MS, Conception R, Chang SS, Williams ML, Smith Jr JA (2007) The association between body size, prostate volume and prostate-specific antigen. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 10:137–142
Xie LP, Bai Y, Zhang XZ, Zheng XY, Yao KS, Xu L, Zeegers MP (2007) Obesity and benign prostatic enlargement: a large observational study in China. Urology 69(4):680–684
Fowke JH, Koyama T, Fadare O, Clark PE (2016) Does inflammation mediate the obesity and BPH relationship? An epidemiologic analysis of body composition and inflammatory markers in blood, urine, and prostate tissue, and the relationship with prostate enlargement and lower urinary tract symptoms. PLoS ONE 11(6):e0156918. https://doi.org/10.1371/jounal.pone0156918.ecollection
Presti JC, Lee U, Brooks JD, Terris MK (2004) Lower body mass index is associated with a higher prostate cancer detection rate and less favourable pathological features in a biopsy population. J Urol 171:2199–2202
Lepor H (2005) Pathophysiology of lower urinary tract symptoms in the aging male population. Rev Urol 7:3–11
Gacci M, Corona G, Vignozi L et al (2015) Metabolic syndrome and benign prostatic enlargement: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BJU Int 115:24–31
De Nunzio C, Aronso W, Freedland SJ, Giovannucci E, Parsons JK (2012) The correlation between metabolic syndrome and prostatic diseases. Eur Urol 61:560–570
Yoo TK, Cho HJ (2012) Benign prostatic hyperplasia: from bench to clinic. Korean J Urol 53:139–148
Saklayen MG (2018) The global epidemic of the metabolic syndrome. Glob Epidem Metab Syndr 9:1–8
Parikesit D, Mochtar CA et al (2016) The impact of obesity towards prostate diseases. Prostate Int 4(1):1–6
Jung JH, Ahn SV, Song JM et al (2016) Obesity as a risk factor for prostatic enlargement : a retrospective cohort study in Korea. Int Neurourol J 20:321–328
Kim GW, Doo SW, Yang WJ (2010) Effects of obesity on prostate volume and lower urinary tract symptoms in Korean men. Korean J Urol 51(5):344–347
Lee SH, Kim JC, Lee JY, Kim JH, Oh CY, Lee SW, Yoo SJ, Chung BH (2009) Effects of obesity on lower urinary tract symptoms in Korean BPH patients. Asian J Androl 11(6):663–668
Hwang EC, Kim S, Nam D, Yu HS, Hwang I (2015) Men with hypertension are more likely to have severe lower urinary tract symptoms and large prostate volume. LUTS 7:32–36
Elabbady A, Hashat MM, Kotb AF, Ghanem AE et al (2016) Studying the effect of type 2 diabetes mellitus on prostate-related parameters: a prospective single institutional study. Prostate Int 4(4):156–159
Moreira DM et al (2015) Smoking is associated with acute and chronic prostatic infl ammation: results from the REDUCE study. Cancer Prev Res 8:312–318
Smoking K (1997) The role of cigarette smoking in prostatic enlargement. Br J Urol 80:201–204
Platz EA, Rim EB, Kawachi I et al (1999) Alcohol consumption, cigarette smoking, and risk of benign prostatic hyperplasia. Am J Epidemiol 149(2):23–27
Coric J et al (2015) Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and prostate volume: better predictor of prostate cancer for Bosnian and Herzegovina men. Open Biochem J 9:34–36
Deori R, Das B, Rahman MA (2017) A study of relationship of prostate volume. Prostate Specif Antigen Age Benign Prostatic Hyperpla 4(7):1582–1586
Mochtar CA et al (2003) European urology prostate-specific antigen as an estimator of prostate volume in the management of patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia. Eur Urol 44:695–700
Putra IB et al (2016) Relationship of age, prostate-specific antigen, and prostate volume in Indonesian men with benign prostatic hyperplasia. Prostate Int 4(2):43–48
Loeb S et al (2016) Prostate volume changes over time: results from the baltimore longitudinal study of aging. HHS Public Access 182(4):1458–1462
Corona G et al (2014) Benign prostatic hyperplasia: a new metabolic disease of the aging male and its correlation with sexual dysfunctions. Int J Endocrinol; 2014.
Sauver JL et al (2011) Associations between modest weight changes and onset and progression of lower urinary tract symptoms in two population-based cohorts. URL 78(2):437–441
This study had no external funding from any resource.
Department of Urology, Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Hospital, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
Department of Urology, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
EM contributed to the conception of the study, to obtain ethical approval, drafting, reviewing for critical content and editing of the manuscript. PF and MH supervised, reviewed for critical content and edited the manuscript. All authors have read and approved the manuscript.
Correspondence to Eshely Mampa.
The study was approved by the Wits Human Research Ethics Committee, Reference number: M180641. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the Wits Human Research Ethics Committee and with the Title page Click here to access/download;Title page;title page.docx 1964 Helsinki Declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards. This was a prospective study using patients who presented at Urology outpatient Department and written consent to participate was obtained. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the Editor-in-Chief of this journal.
Mampa, E., Haffejee, M. & Fru, P. The correlation between obesity and prostate volume in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia at Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital. Afr J Urol 27, 60 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12301-021-00160-y
According to Penguin, POD is currently the only public HPC cloud that supports ‘bare metal’ execution of compute jobs, free of the overhead introduced by virtualization layers. Read the Full Story.

Were Money No Object – the July Previews Edition with Dark Horse, DC Comics, Image, Marvel, Avatar, Boom, :01 First Second & Valiant

2Department of Cancer and Inflammation Research, Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
4Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, Netherlands.
Authorship note: LAK and MGT contributed equally to this work. ECWB and HJD contributed equally to this work.
Targeted therapies and immunotherapy have shown promise in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the majority of patients fail or become resistant to treatment, emphasizing the need for novel treatments. In this study, we confirm the prognostic value of levels of AXL, a member of the TAM receptor tyrosine kinase family, in NSCLC and demonstrate potent antitumor activity of the AXL-targeting antibody-drug conjugate enapotamab vedotin across different NSCLC subtypes in a mouse clinical trial of human NSCLC. Tumor regression or stasis was observed in 17/61 (28%) of the patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models and was associated with AXL mRNA expression levels. Significant single-agent activity of enapotamab vedotin was validated in vivo in 9 of 10 AXL-expressing NSCLC xenograft models. In a panel of EGFR-mutant NSCLC cell lines rendered resistant to EGFR inhibitors in vitro, we observed de novo or increased AXL protein expression concomitant with enapotamab vedotin–mediated cytotoxicity. Enapotamab vedotin also showed antitumor activity in vivo in 3 EGFR-mutant, EGFR inhibitor–resistant PDX models, including an osimertinib-resistant NSCLC PDX model. In summary, enapotamab vedotin has promising therapeutic potential in NSCLC. The safety and preliminary efficacy of enapotamab vedotin are currently being evaluated in the clinic across multiple solid tumor types, including NSCLC.
Lung cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer and the leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide (1). Less than 20% of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) live longer than 5 years after diagnosis (2). For decades, standard treatment consisted of platinum-based combination chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Recent advances in immunotherapy have broadened the treatment options, as evident in the approval of pembrolizumab as first-line therapy in EGFR–wild-type NSCLC patients (3). In addition, the development of tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeting EGFR has significantly increased the survival of a subset of NSCLC patients who harbor tumors with activating EGFR mutations, which account for 10%–20% of NSCLC patients in Europe and North America and 50%–60% of East Asian patients (4–7).
Red Dots On Skin Are Troublesome But Treatable - Skin Care For Men And WomenSkin Care For Men And Women | Mobile Version
Red Dots On Skin Are Troublesome But Treatable
If you have noticed small red dots on the skin and body, you may be feeling very concerned. These types of dots are actually quite common and have several other names including petechiae, ecchymosis, pinpoint red spots or simply skin spots. They are caused by slight bleeding under the level of the skin. Usually, they are quite tiny; although, sometimes the bleeding can spread into a larger bruise. What causes these spots, is it signs of skin cancer and what can be done about them? Read on to find out.
The reasons for red spots on the skin are many and varied and may include the use of anti-coagulant or anti-platelet drugs, the use of steroids, age, dermatitis, chemotherapy, viral or bacterial infections, disorders of the autoimmune system, skin cancer, leukemia disease and other serious illnesses, allergies or simple bruising. Additionally, newborn babies often exhibit this condition due to the trauma of birth. Because there are so many different causes, it is important to see your doctor if your red spots on skin do not have an obvious cause, such as bruising.
It is important to note that skin redness, such as sunburn or rashes are not the same thing as bleeding under the skin and should not be treated in the same way. To tell the difference, try pressing gently on the area with your finger. If the redness disappears momentarily, it is on the surface of the skin. This is not bleeding under the skin.
There are a number of things you can do at home to treat red dots on skin. For bruising, an ice pack may be helpful. If your condition is caused by allergies, allergy treatment as recommended by your doctor should resolve your symptoms. If your red spots are a sign of aging, increasing your skin care and maintenance regimen, avoiding injury and staying well hydrated should help. Red raspberry seed oil supplement can be used for this purpose and to prevent dry skin rashes & irritation.
If your skin condition is caused by use of prescription or non-prescription drugs, an illness or condition or if you simply do not know why you have small red dots on the skin, you must see your doctor right away. Additionally, if you get a bruise that simply does not diminish with time, you should contact your doctor. These dots can be unimportant, or they can present an important clue to more serious conditions.
When you visit your doctor about tiny red dots on skin, he or she will perform a complete medical history and examination of your health. You should be prepared to tell your doctor whether you have suffered a recent injury or are taking any prescription or non-prescription medications or supplements. Some to keep in mind are blood thinners, which can include Warfarin, Coumadin and even aspirin. Try to keep track of any patterns in the symptoms. For example, if they tend to worsen as the day progresses, your doctor needs to know about it. Try to remember if the symptoms began following an event such as a tooth extraction. Overall, be prepared to tell your doctor everything you have noticed about your condition.
Based on your interview and your examination results, your doctor may be able to help you treat your dots on skin right away. Alternately, he or she may order any number of tests to determine the cause of your condition. These could include a complete blood work series and possibly a bone marrow biopsy. Remember that lab work testing is often done to rule out causes of a symptom, so you should not be fearful if your doctor sends you on your way with a handful of lab work slips. The results of your medical tests will help you determine the cause of your tiny red dots on skin.
Joe Jackson received a stem cell transplant at MedStar Georgetown for his diagnosis of multiple myeloma.
As a result of an automobile accident, Delores Metsopoulos was in a lot of pain and could not stand straight.
Facts about prostate cancer tests, treatments | Reuters
Facts about prostate cancer tests, treatments
August 31, 2009 / 9:15 PM / 8 years ago
(Reuters) - Since the introduction of a blood test to screen for prostate cancer in 1986, more than 1 million additional U.S. men have been diagnosed and treated for prostate cancer, a U.S. team reported on Monday, raising fresh questions about high rates of over-diagnosis.
Here are some facts about prostate cancer treatment, and the prostate-specific antigen or PSA screening test:
* Prostate-specific antigen PSA screening is a test that looks for elevated levels of a protein produced only by cells in the prostate gland. Prostate tumors can elevate PSA but so can a condition called benign prostatic hyperplasia -- an enlargement of the prostate that comes with age.
* Most men who develop prostate cancer do not suffer any serious consequences related to the cancer and die of some other cause. PSA tests cannot distinguish between aggressive and low-risk cancers.
* Prostate cancer treatments, including surgery or radiation, can cause incontinence and erectile dysfunction in about a third of patients. Many men also experience bowel problems.
* PSA tests cost $70 and up.
* Many researchers are working on better diagnostic tests that look for aggressive forms of cancer, including molecular changes that suggest the cancer may spread.
* Some have studied PSA velocity, the change in PSA levels over time. A sharp rise may signal aggressive cancer, but more studies are needed. Other teams are examining PSA density, which looks at PSA levels in relation to the size of the prostate gland.
* Other potential tests: Some teams have found that the pattern of small bits of genetic material called microRNAs in a cell differ between normal and abnormal cells, raising hope for a new way to identify potentially harmful cells.
* Genetic material called PCA3 has been found in high levels in prostate tumor cells. Gen-Probe Inc has started clinical trials of a PCA3 prostate cancer test that may help determine the need for a repeat prostate biopsy.
* MabCure Inc, a Canadian biotechnology company, is developing an immune system molecule called a monoclonal antibody for early detection of prostate cancer.
The statement said the vaccine being tested had been produced by one of the world’s biggest pharmaceutical companies and the evaluation of the trial protocol included leading experts in Ghana who are considering a second application.
It said Ghana was selected because of what it called “excellent infrastructure for clinical trials” and added that the FDA had joined the US FOA (* GhanaWeb News: What on Earth is US FOA??? Does it mean US: F.uck O.ff A.frica ????), European Medicines Agency, Health Canada and the WHO to provide the technical support in the evaluation of the Ebola vaccine clinical trials for other affected countries.
The statement further said Ghana is the Regional Centre of Regulatory Excellence (RCORE) for Clinical Trials Oversight in Africa as designated by NEPAD/Africa Medicines Regulatory Harmonisation (AMHR).
“The FDA in considering these applications is mindful of its public health protection role in Ghana as well as its overall contribution to global health”, adding, “These trials are being conducted to the highest ethical standards as operates globally and the FDA is satisfied that all measures to ensure complete participant protection are in place.”
The School of Public Health (SPH) at the newly-established University of Health and Allied Sciences (UHAS) which has been fingered as being part of the whole vaccine brouhaha wrote to invite all paramount chiefs and queenmothers at the Hohoe Traditional Council for a meeting over the issue slated for April 22, 2015.
The letter, written on April 16, 2015 and signed by Dr Margaret Kweku, Acting Dean of SPH, had said the meeting was being convened to offer the opinion leaders the platform in discussing “the impending phase Ebola vaccine trial” to be carried out in the Hohoe Municipality.
A Coalition for Ghana’s Independence Now (CGIN), a pressure group, recently revealed that the project was expected to kick off at Hohoe in the Volta Region soon, and added that health officials had already approached students of the Hohoe Midwifery Training School to volunteer for the trial.
According to the coalition, the students had been promised GH¢200 each and mobile phones. They will also receive other compensations such as transport fares, among others, depending on how the trial goes.
“We want to say without fear or favour that Ebola is not just a disease but rather a well-planned business. A business where people have created an artificial problem and now looking for a market to sell the solution and we are telling Ghanaians beforehand that there is and will be no way by which Ghana can go through this Ebola virus human experiment without Ebola being spread country wide.”
“It is, therefore, from the above illogical scenario that we consider the intended human experimentation of Ebola in Ghana as criminal, human right abuse, thievery and a total disrespect of Ghanaians as human beings.”
The Volta Region NDC asked the Ministry Of Health to immediately call off the Ebola vaccine trial in the region.
Treating High Blood Pressure without Pills - Culture Consultants
High blood pressure is very common. In fact, about 75 million adults worldwide have high blood pressure! Having a high blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood, contributing to the hardening of your arteries, and leading to heart disease or stroke. While most doctors prescribe medication, there are natural remedies for high blood pressure.
Believe it or not, losing weight can help lower your high blood pressure because your blood pressure increases as your weight increases. You are at an especially higher risk if you carry a lot of weight around your waistline. Medical professionals state that men are at risk if their waist measurement is greater than 40 inches, and women if their waist is more than 35 inches.
Several foods include high levels of sodium, and those high levels of sodium contribute to high blood pressure. Lower your salt intake, avoid fast food, and make sure you read the labels on the food you're consuming to find out how much sodium it contains.
According to Dr. Linda Van Horn, potassium-rich fruits and vegetables are important for anyone trying to lower their blood pressure. You can increase your potassium level by eating more sweet potatoes, bananas, cantaloupe, honeydew, raisins, and tomatoes. You can also do so by consuming orange juice.
Many over-the-counter supplements can help lower your blood pressure. Flaxseed, which is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, helps protect against atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease by reducing serum cholesterol, also lowering blood pressure. Although it does come in over-the-counter turkey tail mushroom capsules form, it is recommended to buy whole or ground flaxseed for you to add it to your home-cooked meals. Also recommended is the intake of 30-50 grams of these seeds per day.
Fish oil is another supplement that helps with blood pressure. One of the main causes of elevated blood pressure is inflammation in the arteries. Several studies have been done with fish oil proving it can help decrease the inflammation that causes elevated blood pressure. Consume 1,000-2,000 mg of fish oil per day for the best results.
Another supplement you can take to help lower your blood pressure naturally is magnesium. Magnesium helps relax your blood vessels, lowering your blood pressure. It is recommended to take 500 mg of magnesium daily.
There are many other options if you prefer high blood pressure natural treatment over taking prescribed medications, including the addition of certain herbs to your food. Basil, for example, is an herb that has been shown to help lower blood pressure. Basil can add to soups, pasta, and salads. Many other herbs and spices have been studied and found to be beneficial to lowering blood pressure, including garlic, ginger, celery seed, French lavender, and Black Cumin seeds.
Black Book's 2020 Top-Rated Healthcare Analytics Solutions Vendors and Consultants Announced | Company Newsroom of Black Book Market Research
TAMPA, Fla., January 13, 2020	(Newswire.com) - Black Book polled 3,190 professionals in 748 healthcare organizations in Q2 through Q4 2019 to develop the annual comprehensive industry report on the state of the adoption, implementation and current utilization of analytical software and service programming. The recognized top-performing vendors, based on client experience and customer satisfaction indicators in strategic project planning for 2020, earned top honors as the highest-rated overall healthcare technology vendors for the niche of client or industry type application in use.
Black Book Market Research LLC measures customer satisfaction across 18 copyrighted key performance indicators: Strategic Alignment of Vendor Offerings to the Client's Mission and Goals; Innovation and Optimization; Training and Education; Client Relationships and Cultural Fit; Trust, Accountability, Ethics and Transparency; Breadth of Offerings; Deployment and Implementation; Customization; Integration and Interfaces, Interoperability and Connectivity; Scalability and Client Adaptability, Vendor Staff Expertise and Performance; Reliability; Brand Image and Marketing Communications; Marginal Value Adds; Vendor Financial Viability and Managerial Stability; Data Storage & Cybersecurity Measures; Support and Customer Care; and Best of Breed Technology and Process Improvement.
FINANCIAL ANALYTICS: EPSI DECISION SUPPORT
CLINICAL ANALYTICS: WOLTERS KLUWER
​Black Book Market Research LLC provides healthcare IT users, media, investors, analysts, quality-minded vendors and prospective software system buyers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other interested sectors of the clinical technology industry with comprehensive comparison data of the industry's top respected and competitively performing technology vendors. The largest user opinion poll of its kind in healthcare IT, Black Book™ collects over 17,000 viewpoints on analytics, population health and related information technology and outsourced services on vendor performance annually. Black Book™ is internationally recognized for over 15 years of customer satisfaction polling.
.IO, ALLSCRIPTS, ARCADIA, CITIUS, DELOITTE, HEALTH CATALYST, iNFORMATION BUILDERS, JVION, LEXISNEXIS, OPTUM, VERGE, VIZIENT
Hampton Drug Treatment Facilities, Alcohol Rehabilitation Centers
Drug Rehabs in Hampton
Statistics for Hampton, New Hampshire
The population of Hampton is 14,822. 7,201 are Males and 7,621 are Females.
The Total Area covered by Hampton, New Hampshire is 12.96 Sq. Miles.
The population density in Hampton, NH. is 1,186.98 persons/sq. mile.
The Hampton elevation is 58 Ft.
3,307 students are enrolled in school in Hampton, New Hampshire (over 3 years of age).
271 students are attending Nursery School in Hampton.
1,428 students in Hampton are enrolled in Primary School
720 students attend High School in Hampton.
678 students attend College in Hampton.
7,872 people are employed in Hampton.
293 people are unemployed in Hampton, New Hampshire.
$15,000 to $24,999 yearly: 663
$25,000 to $34,999 yearly: 556
$35,000 to $49,999 yearly: 1,015
$50,000 to $74,999 yearly: 1,408
$75,000 to $99,999 yearly: 979
$100,000 to $149,999 yearly: 743
Drug rehab is Hampton is available in several settings including outpatient, inpatient and residential facilities. It is crucial for any person contemplating these options and which will prove most beneficial for them to understand the kind of center matches their level of treatment need based on their history of substance abuse. Normally, the more severe the addiction the more someone should be in rehab and an outpatient program really isn't a practical selection in these instances. Outpatient drug rehab in Hampton isn't a workable choice generally speaking no matter the degree of addiction being addressed because someone that is abusing drugs or abusing alcohol needs a change of environment to become well. Staying home while in treatment might seem practical, but staying in an atmosphere where one is prone to unhandled stressors which more than likely prompt one's drug use defeats the point in the end. So an individual who wants to stop their addiction before it exacerbates even when it is a new issue will really want to seek rehabilitation in an inpatient or residential drug rehab in Hampton even if it is a short-term facility.
The difference between short-term and long-term is either a short 30-day alcohol and drug rehabilitation center in Hampton or long-term which can be typically 90-120 days. The short-term 30-day drug rehab in Hampton options are programs which mostly focus on getting the individual through detox and withdrawal so that they are physically stabilized, after which do as much as they're able to during the remainder of their stay to enable them to be able to stay sober. This may entail counseling and therapeutic techniques and helping them make lifestyle changes so that they can remove unfavorable influences from their life which could cause a relapse. A month is an extremely short amount of time to be able to accomplish all of this and anyone in search of treatment within a short-term facility should know that it isn't always an effective effort because of how brief the treatment period is. If someone else has experienced a significant drug or alcohol issue, the most important step is to reevaluate one's circumstances before leaving a short-term drug rehab in Hampton, and when there is more to get done it is always wise to transition into a long-term program if at all possible.
At a long-term drug rehab in Hampton, success rates are much higher because it will take the thirty days you will spend in a short term drug rehab in Hampton in order to overcome all the acute physical problems one experiences when just getting off of drugs and alcohol. Someone who is just getting off of heroin by way of example will experience serious withdrawal symptoms for approximately a week and after that less severe symptoms including intense cravings to use for several more weeks. It's challenging to concentrate on the actual rehab process which addresses the causes of one's addiction with all of this going on, so having the ability to become rehabilitated and have any shot at long-term sobriety is much more realistic inside a long-term Hampton drug rehab. So following detoxification and after overcoming the withdrawal symptoms, individuals in a long-term drug rehab in Hampton can receive rehab solutions which will deal with the true reasons that somebody started using alcohol or drugs in the first place. This usually has a lot more to do with deep underlying problems that have nothing to do with the superficial physical challenges addressed in short-term Hampton treatment program.
Regardless of whether someone decides upon and short or long term center it is vital that anyone searching for rehab inside a drug rehab in Hampton realize that their addiction isn't going to be resolved simply by detoxing and becoming abstinent. Although this is obviously a big win for those involved, and very often the individual believes in their own mind they are able to stay sober, this in just about every situation just isn't true. This is why individuals who detox by themselves relapse soon afterwards, which is the reason detox only drug and alcohol rehabilitation facilities in Hampton don't work. There are programs in Hampton whose only objective is to deliver detoxification services, and while this is very helpful and useful regarding short term advantages and goals, people that obtain no further treatment services within a drug rehab in Hampton following detox fare equally as well as those who obtained no rehab services whatsoever, i.e. they relapse soon after. Detoxification only programs are a fantastic starting point, but it's not the end of the road for a person who would like to uncover and take care of the real reasons they became involved in drug abuse which can be what will help them remain sober. So following detoxification, the transition to a short-term or preferably long-term drug rehab in Hampton is always highly recommended. Or maybe just begin in a long-term drug rehab in Hampton from the start to cut out the middle man.
In addition there are facilities in Hampton which don't in fact deliver any rehab at all but make use of medical drugs to help individuals get off of drugs. Methadone centers as an example have been around for a very long time, first used with the intention to assist heroin addicts cease drug seeking habits and stop consequences of heroin use like criminal activity and its consequences as well as health consequences. Most of these centers which now include buprenorphine and several other medicines are called opioid maintenance therapy, and this therapy now addresses problems associated with prescription medication abuse since these drugs are now abused at comparable rates to heroin these days. The key reason why a lot of people may turn to this type of program as being a solution is because they feel they can't cope with the urges and withdrawal symptoms that they may ultimately suffer from whenever they stop using cold turkey. So as an alternative, the apparently simple way out is to use methadone or even a comparable medicine which eliminates cravings and withdrawal symptoms, but is a regiment which itself has to be taken care of to stop urges and withdrawal. So this too isn't an extremely ideal situation for somebody who wanted to completely remove substances from their life which they depend on for either physical or psychological satisfaction.
While deciding to stay in drug rehab in Hampton that can ultimately take more time and effort can be a difficult one to make, most people know within their heart that this is the most suitable option for themselves or a family member. The path to recovery isn't always an easy one, but is really a gratifying one when the appropriate drug rehab in Hampton is selected which accurately complements someone's rehab need, no matter how long it takes or what sacrifices must be made. Sacrifices pay off when an individual can gain back their self-esteem, self-respect and also have a quality of life that they want so much for themselves and their family.
Out of all of the long-term drug rehabs in Hampton there's also a variety of options to select from. A lot of drug rehabs in Hampton for example offer a conventional strategy such as a 12-step treatment curriculum. 12-step is just about the popular rehabilitation method around however it isn't the sole type of center that will help men and women conquer addiction, and in reality some individuals find alternative centers far more helpful. In 12-step, men and women are encouraged to come to terms with the truth that they're not in control of their drug use. This is an example of how such a facility may fail a client ultimately, because relinquishing such control can leave an individual prone to relapse rather than establishing full control of their lives and their drug abuse. Additionally, these types of facilities encourage a process of recovery that continues for the remainder of one's life, so being in "recovery" is something the person has to deal with indefinitely. Luckily, there are lots of alternative programs which help someone "recovery" during rehabilitation and totally handle their addiction issues while there, so there is no need to stay in a continuous recovery process which requires continual upkeep and maintenance.
Along with the utilization of the various treatment techniques available at drug rehab in Hampton to help people become able to better deal with life circumstances and stressors which once prompted them to abuse alcohol and drugs, it is necessary that lifestyle and environmental changes also be made to ensure that all the effort and good results in treatment isn't jeopardized the moment they leave. Someone can think they are on top of the world when they leave treatment and ready as they have ever been to lead a drug free and successful life, but have the walls come crumbling down on them if they return to unhealthy situations that have been left unresolved when they go back home. So a very important element of recovery is being sure that one's life is set up for success when they leave drug rehab in Hampton by making every one of the difficult but important choices and lifestyle changes that will help them manage to maintain a healthy and drug free lifestyle for a long time into the future.
Many of the changes which must be made are obvious, like disassociating oneself with people that you once used drugs with or breaking up with an abusive boyfriend. It could possibly also mean obtaining stable work or a home that wouldn't jeopardize one's continued abstinence. As part of rehab, rehab counselors in the chosen drug rehab in Hampton will typically setup an aftercare strategy that addresses such particulars to ensure that individuals could make the much needed adjustments to their lives which will help them stay away from relapse. It isn't uncommon for individuals to stay closely in touch with their rehabilitation professionals from their drug rehab in Hampton to have a strong system of support while they get their lives back on track, and this is always encouraged.
It can often be hard to convince somebody embroiled in a life of substance abuse that they have to get help, and for family members who are unable to convince someone to go to treatment you can find options available to assist. The main option is a drug intervention, which may either be done with or without a professional drug interventionist. Having a drug interventionist as part of the task is a good idea however, because an intervention can often be an emotionally charged meeting so an interventionist can be the unbiased person needed to make it successful. Go with a drug rehab in Hampton which best suits the requirements of the individual requiring treatment according to their level of addiction, and meet with a rehab counselor right away to get the intervention process started right away. Since the consequences of addiction can be so devastating, it is best to hold an intervention the second a problem is observed and not until it is too late.
Nobody in Hampton should struggle another day having a physically and emotionally crippling addiction, when countless powerful solutions are available for them. There ought to be nothing in the way of someone getting powerful help, because most drug rehabs in Hampton are actually covered by private health insurance or provide payment assistance. So don't hesitate getting help for yourself or someone you care about today, and speak with a rehab specialist without delay to get the treatment procedure started.
Negative wound pressure therapy test system - Tyco Healthcare Group LP
Negative wound pressure therapy test system
United States Patent Application 20080077091
Mulligan, Sharon (US)
11/901767
A61M37/00; A61F13/00
Download PDF 20080077091 PDF help
20080188794 PERCUTANEOUS TENTING August, 2008 Oritz et al.
20070191766 Balloon catheter having nanotubes August, 2007 Mcmorrow
20050261651 Portable package for articles of personal use November, 2005 Lima et al.
Kendall (CDFS) (445 BROAD HOLLOW ROAD, SUITE 225, MELVILLE, NY, 11704, US)
1. A testing system for testing a negative pressure wound therapy apparatus of the type including a wound dressing adapted for positioning over a wound and a negative pressure source, the testing system comprising: a simulated wound having a housing and a wound cavity within the housing, the wound cavity having a shape and dimension representative of an actual wound type, and adapted to accommodate the wound dressing of the negative pressure wound therapy apparatus positioned there over; a negative pressure conduit fluid communication with the wound cavity and connectable to the negative pressure source of the negative pressure wound therapy apparatus; and at least one sensor adapted to record at least one parameter within the simulated wound.
2. The testing system according to claim 1 including an air leak model having a valve in fluid communication with the wound cavity whereby opening of the valve simulates an air leak within the wound cavity.
The present application claims priority to, and the benefit of, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60/846,265, filed Sep. 21, 2006.
The present disclosure relates to treating an open wound with negative wound pressure, and, more specifically, relates to a testing system which analyzes the effectiveness of a negative wound pressure therapy apparatus.
Wound dressings have been used in the medical industry to protect and/or facilitate healing of open wounds. One technique has been to use negative pressure therapy, which is also known as suction or vacuum therapy. A variety of negative pressure devices have been developed to allow excess wound fluids, i.e., exudates to be removed while at the same time isolating the wound to provide protection and, consequently, shorten recovery time. Various wound dressings have been modified to promote the healing of open wounds.
Accordingly, the present disclosure is directed to a testing system for checking the effectiveness of a negative wound pressure therapy (NWPT) apparatus. The testing system includes a simulation wound apparatus and a computing apparatus. The simulation wound apparatus includes a simulated wound fixture and an exudates bath. The simulated wound fixture may be representative of a wound-type encountered in a clinical setting. A negative pressure conduit is in fluid communication with the wound fixture. The simulation wound apparatus may include at least two testing simulations: e.g., incorporating a peristaltic pump for 1) simulating liquid flow from the exudates bath into the wound, and a valve/flow meter for 2) simulating air leaks within the wound dressing. The testing system also may include a plurality of wound sensors adapted for measuring temperature, pressure, oxygen, RH %, light etc. within the wound as well as pressure sensors, flowmeters, etc. The sensors are connected to the computing apparatus and are adapted to provide the measured data via corresponding voltage signals thereto. The computing apparatus includes a user interface for controlling the simulation wound apparatus and recording the data provided by the sensors. The wound dressing therapy apparatus to be tested may include a wound dressing and a negative pressure source. The wound dressing is positioned with respect to the wound fixture. The negative pressure pump is connected to the negative pressure conduit.
According to one aspect of the present disclosure, a system for testing a negative wound pressure therapy apparatus is provided. The system includes a simulated wound having a housing and a wound cavity disposed within the housing. The wound cavity has a shape and dimension representative of an actual wound type. An exudates model including an exudates bath and a pump is in communication with the wound cavity. The exudates bath stores at least one of a fluid and exudates. The pump is adapted to deliver at least one of the fluid and the exudates into the simulated wound. The system further includes at least one sensor adapted to record at least one testing property of the simulated wound. An air leak model having a valve connected to the simulated wound also may be provided. Opening of the valve simulates an air leak or can be used to deliver oxygen at a controlled rate. A computing apparatus is coupled to the at least one sensor, the negative pressure source, the air leak model and/or the exudates model to record and analyze data from the simulated wound. The negative wound pressure therapy apparatus to be tested includes a wound dressing which is positioned to cover the wound cavity and a negative pressure pump. The negative pressure pump is activated to create a vacuum condition within the wound cavity.
Various embodiments of the testing system of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to the drawings wherein:
FIG. 1 is a schematic view of a testing system of the present disclosure illustrating the simulated wound apparatus and a computing apparatus;
FIGS. 2A-2E are perspective views of simulated wounds apparatti according to the present disclosure;
FIG. 3 is an embodiment of an exemplative wound dressing to be tested and mounted to the simulated wound apparatus;
FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of the computing apparatus;
FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram of a user interface according to the present disclosure; and
FIG. 6 is a flow diagram of a procedure performed by the testing system
In general, the present disclosure is directed to a testing system for testing the effectiveness of a negative pressure wound therapy apparatus. The testing system includes a simulated wound and a computer incorporating a plurality of sensors. The testing system collects data and transmits the data to a computing apparatus wherein the data is processed and analyzed.
Referring now to FIG. 1, the testing system 10 for testing the effectiveness of the negative pressure wound therapy apparatus in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure is illustrated. The negative wound therapy apparatus will, at a most basic level, include a wound dressing 204 and a negative pressure source 226. The wound dressing 204 is adapted to operate with simulated wounds such as wound "w."
The wound dressing 204 can be any conventional wound dressing adapted for applying negative pressure. One wound dressing suitable for use is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Provisional Patent Appln. Ser. No. 60/765,921 filed Feb. 7, 2006 and depicted in FIG. 3. Wound dressing 204 may includes several components, namely, at least a support layer or member 204a which is contact with the wound "w", an outer layer or cover member 204b and a plurality of beads 204c supported by the support member 204a. The support member 204a is adapted to substantially conform to the topography of the wound "w." The support member 204a may be substantially porous to permit exudates to pass from the wound "w" through the support member 204a. Support member 204a may also be non-adherent. The support member 204a may be constructed from a variety of different materials. These materials may include but are not limited to synthetic non-absorbable polymer fibers such as carbonized polymers, polyethylene (PET), polypropylene (PP), polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), Nylon, arimids, Kevlar, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) or natural fibers such as cellulose.
The outer member 204b of the wound dressing 204 encompasses the perimeter to surround and form a seal around the wound "w". For instance, the sealing mechanism may be any adhesive bonded to a layer that surrounds the wound "w." Adhesives include, for example, medical grade acrylics like the adhesive used with CURAFOAM ISLAND™ dressing of TycoHealthcare Group, LP or any silicone or rubber based medical adhesives that are skin friendly and non irritating. The outer member 204b may be provided with an adhesive backing and/or alternatively, an adhesive may be applied to the outer member 204b during the procedure.
The outer member 204b is typically a flexible material, e.g., resilient or elastomeric, that seals the top of wound dressing 204. Exemplary flexible materials include the transparent dressing manufactured under the trademark Polyskin II by Kendall Corp, a division of Tyco Healthcare Group LP. Preferably, the outer member 204b is transparent and provides a barrier to microbes and fluid containment. The outer member 204b may be manufactured from a semi-permeable plastic film providing it with a high moisture vapor transmission rate (MVTR) to allow the passage of moisture through the film. Such films could be manufactured from polyurethanes, breathable polyolefins, or copolyesters. The transparency of the outer member 204b permits a visual review of the status of the wound dressing. Alternatively, the outer member 204b may be impermeable to moisture vapors.
The beads 204c are manufactured from a suitable biocompatible material. The beads 204c may be antimicrobial beads, beads with growth factors, medicaments, antibiotics, analgesics, and healing factors such as vitamins, nutrients and the like. These beads 204c may be non-adherent and may be bioabsorbable over a predetermined period of time. Acrylic (PMMA) can be used for its clarity. Other materials that could be used are polycarbonate, polystyrene, PVC, ABS, SAN, glass or silicone. Bioabsorbable polymers could also be used, e.g., polylactide (PLA), polyglycolide (PGA), Chitosan, polyethylene oxide (PEO) or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
The beads 204c are preferably substantially rigid for at least a predetermined period of time during healing so as to maintain the desired spacing to thereby define passages through the bed of beads for passing of wound exudates, air, etc. Thus, the beads 204c may be nonabsorbable. Alternatively, the beads 204c and bead size may be partially or fully absorbable. With an absorbable material, the rate of absorption of the beads 204c is selected to maintain the desired rigidity during a predetermined period of healing.
Alternatively, the beads 204c may be substituted with an absorbable dressing manufactured under the trademark Kerlix™ by Kendall Corp, a division of Tyco Healthcare Group LP.
The negative pressure source 226 to be tested applies vacuum through conduit to the wound "w." The negative pressure source 226 may be an automated pump. Typically, the negative pressure generated within the wound "w" by negative pressure source 226 is in a range between about 20 mmHg to about 500 mmHg, more preferably, about 75 mmHg and about 125 mmHg. The portable pump may be in the form of a small or miniature pump that maintains or draws adequate and therapeutic vacuum levels. The pump may be a peristaltic pump or a continuous pump. Typically, negative pressure source 226 has regulation means to apply the optimal vacuum pressure for healing the wound.
Referring again to FIG. 1, the testing system 10 will be discussed. The testing system 10 includes simulation wound apparatus 200 and computing apparatus 100 which collects data from the simulation wound apparatus 200. The testing system 10 further includes an exudates model having an exudates bath 236 connected to the simulated wound "w" (e.g., in fluid communication with the simulated wound "w"). The exudates bath supplies exudates and fluid to the wound "w" for the simulation of exudates and fluid flow into the wound "w." The testing system 10 also includes an air leak model which simulates flow of air within the dressing apparatus 200. The simulated wounds may be created in a laboratory setting.
FIGS. 2A-2E illustrates embodiments of various simulated wounds "w" which are representative of wound-types encountered in a clinical setting. Simulated wound "w" includes a housing or fixture 500 having a wound cavity 502 disposed within the housing 500. The housing 500 may be constructed from a variety of materials such as Lucite™ polycarbonate, metals, plastics etc. capable of withstanding pressure changes occurring during the testing process. The wound cavity 502 may be of various shapes and dimensions representative of various types of wounds encountered by a clinician, including, e.g., a small dry wound (FIG. 2A), small wet wound (FIG. 2B), large dry wound (FIG. 2C), large wet wound (FIG. 2D) and tunneling wound (FIG. 2E). For exemplative purposes, the small dry and wet simulated wounds of FIGS. 2A and 2B may have wound cavities 502 occupying a volume of 7.5 cubic centimeters (cc) defining a diameter of 40 millimeters (mm) and a depth of 6 mm. The large dry and wet simulated wounds of FIGS. 2C and 2D may have wound cavities 502 which are V-shaped and occupy a volume of 480 (cc). The dimensions of the V-shaped wound cavity 502 may be 160 (mm) in length, 80 (mm) in width and 75 (mm) in depth at the vertex 504 of the V-shaped cavity 502. The tunneling wound of FIG. 2E may have a wound cavity 502 which occupies a volume 55 (cc). The tunneling wound may have an initial diameter of 65 (mm) and a total depth of 95 (mm). The tunneling section 506 (shown in phantom) of the wound cavity 502 may begin at 40 (mm) in depth and extend for a length of 105 (mm). The wet and dry characteristics may be controlled by fluid or exudate(s) flow from the exudate(s) bath. Other wound types are also contemplated. The wound cavity 502 may be constructed from a variety of materials similar to the materials used to manufacture the housing 500, but may be designed to either remain rigid under pressure or collapse to simulate flexibility of human tissue in clinical setting.
In use, the wound dressing 204 is placed on the simulated wound "w" as shown in FIG. 1. The negative pressure source 226 is then activated creating a reduced pressure state within wound dressing 204. As the pumping progresses, wound exudates flow through support member and the out conduit. Preferably, the wound exudates are deposited within a container 220 coupled in line with the conduit and negative pressure source 226.
The container 220 collects the exudates and is connected to a fill sensor 222 which detects the amount of exudates within the container 220. The negative pressure source 226 is powered by a power supply 228 which is preferably a low voltage DC power source (e.g., a battery). The negative pressure source 226 is controlled via circuitry 230 (e.g., pressure regulator which controls the pressure set point, power, etc.). Furthermore a current sensor 230 and a voltage divider 234 monitor the actual voltage and current being supplied at the terminals of the negative pressure source 226. The conduit connecting the wound dressing 204 to the negative pressure source 226 includes a manual and/or automatic control valve which allows a user to disconnect the pump. Additional negative pressure sources 225, each having individual control valves, may be interchangeably connected to the conduit to perform various tests and evaluate efficiency of various pumps. It is envisioned that the negative pressure source 226 may be disconnected and one of the negative pressure sources 225 are connected to the conduit. A pressure sensor 224 is also connected to the conduit between the negative pressure source 226 and the wound dressing 204 to record the pressure.
The fill sensor 222, the pressure sensor 224, the circuitry 230, the current sensor 232, the voltage divider 234, and the power supply 228 are connected to a computer interface 202 which is connected to the computing apparatus 100 through a communication port 102. This allows for recordation of data collected by the fill sensor 222, the pressure sensor 224, the current sensor 232 and the voltage divider 234. The computing apparatus 100 is also adapted to control the circuitry 230 and the power supply 228 thereby controlling the operation of the negative pressure source 226.
With reference to FIG. 4, the computing apparatus 100 may include one or more central processing units (CPU) 390, a random access memory (RAM) 391, a read only memory (ROM) 392 and input/output (I/O) interface(s) such as a keypad 393, cursor control device 394 (e.g., a mouse, joystick, touchscreen, etc.), a data storage device 398, and display device 395. The computing apparatus 100 also includes a networking device 397 which provides wired or wireless connectivity to a communications network. In addition, various other peripheral devices may be connected to the computing apparatus 100 by various interfaces and bus structures, such as the communication port 102 (e.g., a parallel port, serial port or universal serial bus (USB), etc.). A system bus 396 couples the various components and may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.
The computing apparatus also includes an operating system and/or micro instruction code. The various processes and functions described herein may either be part of the micro instruction code, firmware, or part of the application program (or a combination thereof) which is executed via the operating system. In addition, the computing apparatus 100 includes software for displaying user input screens and recording user responses, which is discussed below. More specifically, the computing apparatus 100 includes a user interface 106 adapted to control various components of the wound dressing apparatus 200.
With reference to FIG. 1, a plurality of wound sensors 205: an oxygen sensor 206, a pressure sensor 208, a light sensor 209, a humidity sensor 210, a temperature sensor 211, and a bacterial level indicator 213 are disposed at the wound "w." The wound sensors 205 provide data on the wound "w" as the wound is subjected to negative pressure treatment. This allows for evaluation of efficacy of various treatments (e.g., determining optimal pump pressure and wound dressing for particular wounds). The oxygen sensor 206 detects the level of oxygen at the wound; the pressure sensor 208 is coupled to the conduit connecting the negative pressure source 226 and the container 220, the pressure sensor 208 detects the negative pressure at the wound achieved via the action of the negative pressure source 226; the light sensor 209 measures amount of UV and/or IR light at the wound "w" which is helpful in analyzing permittivity of the wound dressing 204; the humidity sensor 210 detects the amount of water (vapor or liquid) at the wound "w" which is helpful in analyzing efficiency of the negative pressure source 226 and the wound dressing 204 at withdrawing moisture from the wound "w"; the temperature sensor 211 detects the temperature at the wound "w"; the bacterial level indicator 213 detects various types of bacteria and amounts thereof present at the wound "w." The wound sensors 205 are also connected to the computing apparatus 100 through the computer interface 202. It is envisioned that multiple sensors of one type may be used, e.g., two pressure sensors, depending on the size of the wound being monitored.
The simulation wound apparatus 200 also includes a valve 216 which is connected to the wound dressing 204 or the simulated wound "w" through another conduit. The valve 216 controls air flow of simulated air leaks into the wound, such that when the valve 216 is open air may flow into the simulated wound "w." The valve 216 is controlled automatically through a valve control circuit 218 to maintain a preset user selected flow rate. A feedback control loop is implemented to maintain user selected flow rate, wherein the flowmeter 214 measures the flow rate and provides sensed feedback information to the control circuit 218 which then makes adjustments to the flow rate in response thereto. The flowmeter 214, the wound sensors 205, the pressure sensor 224, the fill sensor 22, the current sensor 232, the voltage divider 234, and the power supply 228 convert the measured data into corresponding voltage signals which are then transmitted to the computing apparatus 100.
A peristaltic pump 212 is connected to the exudates bath 236 to maintain pressure therein to provide desired pressure conditions for simulation purposes (e.g., increase or decrease the flow of exudates and fluid into the wound "w"). Typical peristaltic pumps include a plurality of rollers that are driven along in a circular path by an electric motor (or other suitable prime mover) in a rotational direction. As is common in most such peristaltic pumps, rollers periodically contact and compress the tubing and as the rollers move along the circular path, successive pockets of air are suctioned through the tubing. The peristaltic pump 212 is controlled by the computing apparatus 100 (e.g., set point) and reports the pressure, pump velocity and velocity feedback provided thereby via tachometer. Hence, the user controls the peristaltic pump 212 to adjust and monitor the flow of liquid into the wound model. It is envisioned that the peristaltic pump 212 may be replaced by any automatic pump.
With reference to FIG. 5, the user interface 106 is shown. The user interface 106 displays on the display device 395 data recorded by the sensors and allows the user to adjust various testing parameters, such as a set point for the negative pressure source 226. The computing apparatus 100 records the data recorded by the wound sensors 205 and the flowmeter 214 and controls the valve 216, the negative pressure source 226 and the peristaltic pump 212 via the user interface 106. It is envisioned that the sensor feedback information may be stored in a separate file accessible at a later time. The user interface may be application software written for LabVIEW (Laboratory Virtual Instrumentation Engineering Workbench), which is a platform and development environment. In particular, the user interface 106 controls input voltage of the negative pressure source 226, monitors and records actual voltage and current used, sets and controls air flow of leaks into the wounds (i.e., via the vale 216), sets and records the flow of fluid into the wounds and measures fill level of fluid in the container 220. The testing system 10 allows for evaluation of various pumps (e.g., interchangeable negative pressure source 226), evaluation of multiple wound dressing technologies, instrumentation of multiple wound models and calculation of power consumption.
The user interface 106 provides the user with ability to enter pump information (e.g., negative pressure source 226) which may include pump description. The user also sets pump operating parameters, such as, nominal pump voltage, pump pressure setting (entered either in mmHg or in Hg), pump power which is voltage level applied to the pump, wherein 100% is equivalent to nominal voltage. The user interface 106 also outputs the following pump parameters: pump pressure reading which is read by the pressure sensor 208 (either in mmHg or in Hg), pump measured voltage which is measured at the terminals of the pump by the voltage divider 234, pump measured current also measured at the terminal of the pump by the current sensor 232, and calculated power obtained by multiplying measured voltage and current.
The user interface 106 also includes a leak manager which allows the user to set diameter of the opening of the valve 216. The diameter value sends a corresponding voltage command to the valve control circuit 218 which then opens the valve 216 to the desired setting. The leak manager also reports the reading by the flow meter 214 which measures the air flow in the leak model in liters per minute.
It is also contemplated that the user interface 106 includes an exudates manager which allows the user to set the flow setting which controls the revolutions of the peristaltic pump 212 and, hence, the flow of exudates from the exudates bath 236. The exudates manager also reports the reading from the tachometer output of the peristaltic pump 212. The user also selects an appropriate wound model using the interface 106 as discussed in more detail below.
The user interface also includes a system information section which includes a test description field, a dressing description field for inputting information regarding the dressing being tested, status display which indicates whether sensor data is being recorded by displaying "IDLE" or "RECORDING" accordingly. A "START" button is shown which initiates tests, starts or stops data logging of all the sensors and resets timers. An "EXIT" button is provided for terminating the program. A file name field allows the user to select a file for storing the sensor data being recorded once the "START" button is pressed.
The time manager includes a sample rate field which displays the sampling rate (e.g., in seconds) at which sensors collect data, a stop time enable field which accepts an input of a predetermined time period at which to terminate the test, a stop time button for stopping the test. The time manager also includes a pressure set point field for inputting a predetermined set point during the test and a pressure alarm enable button which enables monitoring and capture of the time period for reaching the pressure set point, the captured value is then displayed in the measured time field. The time manager also includes a test duration field which displays duration of the test.
The user interface 106 further includes a wound readings section which displays data from the wound sensors 205 and a plotting area. The plotting area is subdivided into three sections wherein the first section plots the data collected by the wound sensors 205 (e.g., one plot per sensor) vs. time, the second section plots the data (e.g., voltage, current, pressure and power) collected by pump sensors (e.g., current sensor 232, voltage divider 234, and pressure sensor 224), and the third section plots the data collected by the flow meter 214, the fill sensor 222 and the tachometer of the peristaltic pump 212.
With regard to simulation of multiple wound models, during operation the user selects one of a plurality of available wound models. In response to selecting a particular wound model, the user interface 106 automatically selects certain wound sensors 205 to monitor the wound "w." In particular, certain types of wounds only require certain types of sensor whereas other types of wound models require other types of sensors simply because not all sensor data is relevant to all wound models.
A wound testing method is illustrated in FIG. 6. Initially, using the user interface 106 a wound model is selected in step 400. A wound model is described as having three characteristics: size—either small or large, moisture content—either wet or dry, and structure either compliant or rigid. Thus making for the total of five different wound models: small rigid dry wound (e.g., chronic leg ulcer), large rigid dry wound (e.g., acute wound), small rigid wet wound, large rigid wet wound, compliant wound (e.g., collapsible and/or tunneling wound).
In step 410, the user interface 106 automatically configures the testing system 200. The user interface 106 selects which of the wound sensors 205 are to be used during the test based on the wound model selected as well as other equipment which has to be turned on. For rigid dry wounds, at least pressure sensor 208 and oxygen sensor 206 are selected. For large dry rigid wounds, two pressure sensors 208 are used. For rigid wet wounds at least one humidity sensor 210 and at least one pressure sensor 208 are selected. At least two pressure sensors 208 are activated if the wound is large. Further, for wet wounds pumping of the fluid into the wound "w" is achieved via activation of the pump 212. For collapsible wounds, at least three pressure sensors 208 and at least one humidity sensor 206 are activated. The user may select additional sensors which were not automatically activated by the user interface 106, e.g., light sensor 209, temperature sensor 211.
In step 412, the user selects a pump as the negative pressure source 226 and the type of the wound dressing 204. It is envisioned that the user enters description of the pump and the wound dressing being used in the test.
In step 414, the user begins the application wherein the negative pressure source 226 is activated and as the negative pressure is created within the wound dressing 204, the wound sensors 205 record collected data. The user sets the time period for the test and adjusts the sampling rate for the sensors. The user also sets up the simulated air leak by adjusting the valve 216 and the simulated flow of liquid into the wound "w" via the peristaltic pump 212. Further, the user calibrates the sensors if required.
The user initiates recordation of data and may be prompted by the user interface 106 where to save the data. The user can set a specified pressure set point, if achieved may be signaled via an audio and/or visual alarm (not explicitly shown). The user interface 106 displays graphically and/or in a text line pump pressure, wound pressure, oxygen, humidity, volumetric fill, air leak rate, fluid flow, pump power consumption by measuring current consumption and applied voltage, measured pump voltage, measured pump current, air leak setting, measure leak rate, time elapsed, etc. These values may be displayed vs. time in a graph. Further, set values and measured values may be displayed along side each other for easier comparison of the test results. The test is terminated when the time set by the user is expired or the test is manually stopped.
The collected data this provides a quantitative measurement of the effectiveness of the negative wound pressure treatment apparatus including wound dressing type and negative pressure source for a predetermined wound type. This data may be interpreted to adjust various parameters, materials, etc. of the proposed testing system in a manner to ensure the overall effectiveness of the system and/or to achieve other wound parameters. Moreover, the testing system may be utilized to provide a standardized methodology for establishing accepted industry standards in negative wound pressure treatment. During testing, the RH may be in the range from about 0% to about 100%, wound pressure may be from about 0 mmHg to about 500 mmHg and oxygen level may be from about 0% to about 100%.
