Cancer risk of hair dyes: Yes or no? - Go Green Health Care
However, in 2004, the researchers wrote in the Journal of Food and Chemical Toxicology that, despite the increasing use of hair dyes, an excessive increase in allergic reactions can be observed, not in hair even in users. domestic. Although positive results will often bring genetic laboratory toxicity tests (check if the substance has a mutagenic effect), but this should not, at the same time, that this substance in humans can actually cause cancer.
Although hair dyes in the 2001 study were associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer, several prospective studies in larger populations found no negative correlation between these two factors.
Cloning studies and epidemiological studies have shown that pigments and their components pose no risk to reproduction. The evidence also suggests that both users and hairdressers who use hair dyes on a regular basis have no risk of cancer or other health risks.
If the risk is very low, as it should be here, I think you're questioning it again, because in June 2017 it was published in the Journal of Cancer, a study conducted by researchers at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, overnight lean keto New Jersey, and the link between the use of hair products. . Hair dyes are also found, hair softens and the risk of breast cancer increases.
Different factors can increase the risk of breast cancer. Some can not be affected (genetics, age in the first period, child nutrition, country of origin, growth, etc.), but some. Because almost all women are free to decide how much they move, if they want to drink alcohol because they eat if they take vitamins or smoke, and if they want to use hormonal contraceptives or not.
So far, the results of damage to hair products containing cancer-causing chemicals and the risk of cancer, as described above, are somewhat contradictory. To increase clarity, the research team analyzed data on 2,885 women (aged 20 to 75) who participated in the Women's Health Study.
2,280 women had breast cancer and 2,025 were healthy. Researchers are now analyzing to what extent women use certain hair products, such as hair dyes or homogenization factors.
DMC » Blog Archive How long does customer consent last? - DMC Data & Marketing Commission
How long does customer consent last?
24th October, 2016 at 10:27am
The data we collect on our customers and the data they give us is at the heart of everything we do as marketers. Of all of this data, the most important is how and when they gave (or renewed) consent to receive communication from your business.
The collection of this consent is something covered in the GDPR as needing to be 'explicit' and 'unambiguous'. This means brand businesses will no longer be able to use pre-ticked boxes and justify consent through inactivity or silence.
But what happens once you have that consent? The law says that consent is given 'for the time being', but with the ICO adding that 'consent decays over time' what is the lifespan of consent? Unfortunately, this is where the laws and guidance become less specific.
The ICO has made a recommendation for third party data that consent should be considered invalid after 6 months. In essence, this means that marketers would have six months from the initial collection for first use.
On the topics of postal and all first party marketing data, however, there are no timeframes offered in the ICO's guidance to date. That's why the DMA's Responsible marketing committee is launching a new consultation process open to all members to ask for your thoughts on how long you believe consent should last and how we should go about setting this as a standard for our industry. This may vary depending on the sector, vertical, channel and any number of other factors, but as responsible marketers we should be able to agree on a minimum standard.
The link below will take you through to a brief survey where you can offer your thoughts anonymously, unless you'd like to leave us your email address to continue the conversation further. The survey will run until 17th October and if you have any further questions or thoughts you would like to share with the committee, please contact Rosie Atherfold on councils@dma.or.uk or on 020 7291 3300.
Serum uric acid levels predict incident nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in healthy Korean men. - PubMed - NCBI
AbstractFormatSummarySummary (text)AbstractAbstract (text)MEDLINEXMLPMID ListApplySend to:Choose DestinationFileClipboardCollectionsE-mailOrderMy BibliographyCitation managerFormatSummary (text)Abstract (text)MEDLINEXMLPMID ListCSVCreate File1 selected item: 20863537FormatSummarySummary (text)AbstractAbstract (text)MEDLINEXMLPMID ListMeSH and Other DataE-mailSubjectAdditional textE-mailDidn't get the message? Find out why...Add to ClipboardAdd to CollectionsOrder articlesAdd to My BibliographyGenerate a file for use with external citation management software.Create File
See comment in PubMed Commons belowMetabolism. 2011 Jun;60(6):860-6. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2010.08.005. Epub 2010 Sep 21.Serum uric acid levels predict incident nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in healthy Korean men.Ryu S1, Chang Y, Kim SG, Cho J, Guallar E.Author information1Department of Occupational Medicine, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University, School of Medicine, Seoul 110-746, South Korea.AbstractThe objective of the study was to assess the prospective association between serum uric acid levels and incident nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in a cohort of healthy Korean men. A cohort study was performed on 5741 Korean men, 30 to 59 years of age, with no evidence of fatty liver disease on liver ultrasound and with no major risk factors for liver disease at baseline. Study participants were followed in annual or biennial health examinations between 2002 and 2008. The presence of fatty liver was determined at each examination by ultrasound. Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate the association of baseline and time-dependent levels of serum uric acid with incident fatty liver, adjusted for potential confounders. During 23,995 person-years of follow-up, 1717 participants developed fatty liver on ultrasound examination. After adjustment for age, body mass index, smoking, and alcohol intake, the hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) for incident fatty liver comparing quartiles 2 to 4 of serum uric acid to quartile 1 were 1.17 (1.01-1.37), 1.28 (1.11-1.48), and 1.51 (1.31-1.73), respectively (P for trend = .001). The adjusted hazard ratio comparing participants with hyperuricemia (serum uric acid ≥7.0 mg/dL) to those with normouricemia (<7.0 mg/dL) was 1.29 (1.14-1.46). A graded and statistically significant association persisted after adjusting for other cardiometabolic factors and also in time-dependent models. Serum uric acid was an independent risk factor of incident fatty liver detected by ultrasonography. Additional research should clarify the mechanisms underlying this association and the role of hyperuricemia in the development of fatty liver.Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.PMID: 20863537 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE] SharePublication Types, MeSH Terms, SubstancesPublication TypesResearch Support, Non-U.S. Gov'tMeSH TermsAdultAging/physiologyAlcohol Drinking/metabolismBlood Chemical AnalysisBody Mass IndexFatty Liver/blood*Fatty Liver/diagnosis*Fatty Liver/ultrasonographyFollow-Up StudiesHumansLipids/bloodMaleMiddle AgedPredictive Value of TestsProportional Hazards ModelsRepublic of KoreaRisk FactorsSmoking/metabolismSocioeconomic FactorsTime FactorsUric Acid/blood*SubstancesLipidsUric AcidLinkOut - more resourcesFull Text SourcesElsevier ScienceClinical KeyMedicalLiver Disease - Genetic AlliancePubMed Commons home
Ultrasound helps ID nodules in atom bomb survivors | Health Imaging
Ultrasound helps ID nodules in atom bomb survivors
Feb 12, 2015 | John Hocter
Researchers using thyroid ultrasonography have identified an increased presence of large nodules in the thyroids of atom bomb survivors, according to a study published in the February issue of JAMA Internal Medicine.
Ultrasonographic technology has been used in the past to detect thyroid cancer in children following the historical nuclear disasters at the Chernobyl and Fukushima power plants, and more recent advancements have shown small thyroid nodules to be common in many Japanese adults and children. Until recently, however, very few studies have focused on how radiation exposure at a young age continues to effect the thyroid in later stages of life.
To do so, the research team led by Misa Imaizumi, MD, PhD, of Nagasaki University in Japan, examined 3,087 atomic bomb survivors from Hiroshima and Nagasaki who participated in the Adult Health Study at the Radiation Effects Research Foundation in Japan. The participants had a mean age of 68 and were all less than 10 years of age at the time of exposure.
By conducting examinations using thyroid ultrasonography, the team was able to determine that 17 percent of atomic bomb survivors have nodules considered to be large in size (greater than 10mm in diameter), all of which were significantly associated with radiation exposure. "We observed significant radiation effects on thyroid nodules 62 to 66 years after radiation exposure," wrote Imaizumi et al. "Risk estimates for atomic bomb survivors exposed in childhood (before the age of 10) were higher than for those exposed at all ages … particularly for malignant tumors."
Nodules less than 10mm in size are more common in the general population and not associated with past radiation exposure, a fact the researchers were able to discern thanks to the accuracy of results derived through ultrasound imaging of the thyroid.
"Because of recent advances in the quality of ultrasonographic imaging, small thyroid nodules are being detected more frequently than are nodules that are 10mm or larger in adults as well as children," the authors wrote. "The major strengths of this study were the availability of estimated thyroid radiation doses and nearly complete ascertainment of thyroid nodule cases, with few false negative cases using standardized ultrasonographic examination."
Rare Diseases: Case Study Of A Patient Advocacy Group And Gene Therapy | Orphan Druganaut Blog
Gene Therapy, Orphan Drug, Orphan Drug Development, Orphan Drugs, Rare Disease, Rare Diseases
Rare Diseases: Case Study Of A Patient Advocacy Group And Gene Therapy
The influence of patient advocacy groups on developing new treatments for rare diseases is powerful. The trend is for patient advocacy groups to provide large capital investment in preclinical and clinical research programs for the purpose of providing new treatment options for rare diseases. One such patient advocacy group is the National Tay-Sachs and Allied Diseases Association (NTSAD).
On June 13, 2013, NTSAD announces that the FDA grants the organization Orphan Drug Designation (ODD) for the development of the first-ever gene therapy treatment for two rare diseases, Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff. The gene therapy in development corrects an enzyme deficiency that causes the progressive neurodegeneration in both diseases. The experimental gene therapy uses adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based gene therapy. The Tay-Sachs Gene Therapy (TSGT) Consortium research team is currently completing pre-clinical studies in advance of a Phase I clinical trial. TSGT is a multidisciplinary academic team founded in 2007, with the mission to advance human clinical trials in the quest for a gene therapy treatment for Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases.
NTSAD is one of the oldest patient advocacy groups in the US, founded more than 50 years ago by parents whose children were affected by Tay-Sachs and other LSDs. The organization supports research through the Research Initiative and other collaborative programs. NTSAD "pioneered the development of community education about carrier screening programs for Tay-Sachs and related diseases, which became models for all genetic diseases."
Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff are Lysosomal Storage Diseases (LSDs), a group of more than fifty genetically inherited disorders, characterized by the deficiency of an enzyme that prevents the proper breakdown of undigested material inside cells. This results in the accumulation of substrate in tissues and organs of the body causing these organs to function less efficiently, resulting in progressive deterioration. No cure currently exists for Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases.
Tay-Sachs is a LSD caused by the absence of an enzyme called beta-hexosaminidase. It is the Hexosaminidase A (Hex-A) gene that provides instructions for making this enzyme. Without the correct amount of Hex-A, a fatty substance (GM2 ganglioside) accumulates abnormally in cells – especially in nerve cells of the brain. This continuous accumulation causes progressive damage to the cells leading to neurological disorders.
Sandhoff Disease is a LSD caused by the absence of two enzymes – Hexosaminidase A (Hex A) and Hexosaminidase B (Hex B). Without both enzymes, GM2 ganglioside accumulates abnormally in cells, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration .
Please Note: "Spinning DNA" By USDA ([1]) [Public domain] | Wikimedia Commons.
From → Gene Therapy, Orphan Drug, Orphan Drug Development, Orphan Drugs, Rare Disease, Rare Diseases
International Conference on Polymeric Composite Materials and Applications ICPCMA in April 2022 in Jerusalem
ICPCMA 2022: 16. International Conference on Polymeric Composite Materials and Applications
Conference Code: 22IL04ICPCMA
ICPCMA 2022: 16. International Conference on Polymeric Composite Materials and Applications aims to bring together leading academic scientists, researchers and research scholars to exchange and share their experiences and research results on all aspects of Polymeric Composite Materials and Applications. It also provides a premier interdisciplinary platform for researchers, practitioners and educators to present and discuss the most recent innovations, trends, and concerns as well as practical challenges encountered and solutions adopted in the fields of Polymeric Composite Materials and Applications
ICPCMA 2022 has teamed up with the Special Journal Issue on Polymeric Composite Materials and Applications. A number of selected high-impact full text papers will also be considered for the special journal issues. All submitted papers will have the opportunity to be considered for this Special Journal Issue. The paper selection will be carried out during the peer review process as well as at the conference presentation stage. Submitted papers must not be under consideration by any other journal or publication. The final decision for paper selection will be made based on peer review reports by the Guest Editors and the Editor-in-Chief jointly. Selected full-text papers will be published online free of charge.
Composite Materials Conferences in April 2022 in Jerusalem Materials Engineering Conferences in April 2022 in Jerusalem
Treatments For Brain Cancer | Jacobi Cancer and Radiology
treatments for brain cancer	Kinds of Brain Cancer TherapyPublished August 17, 2012 | By roy	There are several several types of brain cancer. It is important to know and understand that treating a mind tumor should be custom-made to you. Whereas treatments are usually standardized, it's important for the treating physician to contemplate your age, in addition to any and all health problems that you may experience.
Along with this, the medical skilled should also consider the type of tumor that you just endure from, the location of the tumor, in addition to the overall measurement of the irregular growth.
On this well being information, you'll study a little in regards to the different types of mind most cancers remedy that you may choose from to be able to deal with the well being problems that you undergo from.
Radiation therapy is a typical mind most cancers treatment that many individuals with tumors elect to participate in after being urged by their doctor. Machines that emit rays which are stuffed with a excessive degree of vitality work to effectively destroy tumor based cells. This therapy can also be efficient in reducing the possibility that the cells will grow and proceed to multiply in the body.
In most cases, radiation therapy will completely cease the expansion and replica process of cancerous cells within the brain and other areas in the body. That is an appropriate therapy for these that aren't capable of undergoing treatment. Many patients prefer this therapy as it is thought of to be local. Which means that it only targets cells which are cancerous and never wholesome cells.
This is a preview of Kinds of Brain Cancer Therapy. Read the full post (316 words, 1 image, estimated 1:16 mins reading time)	Posted in Brain Cancer | Tagged treatments for brain cancer | Leave a comment	What are treatments for bone cancer?Published December 23, 2011 | By amy	Treatments For Brain Cancer
This is a preview of What are treatments for bone cancer?. Read the full post (309 words, 1 image, estimated 1:14 mins reading time)	Posted in Bone Cancer | Tagged treatments for brain cancer | Leave a comment	Get the Best Treatments for Brain CancerPublished August 12, 2011 | By admin	The mind is comprised of tens thousands of cells and these cells start constructing right soon after the third month of conceiving, unless there are problems such as cancer in which you need treatments for brain cancer. Following psychological performance cells stop splitting, they don't seem to be meant to divide as soon as extra, and their unit is below inflexible control. Even so, once the administration goes astray even inside a selected cell, the cell may perhaps begin dividing uncontrollably and also the researches on cancer show a shortly separating cell that doesn't have regulators to stop it commence producing far more and extra clones major to formation of the tumor (this malignant tissue has cells which might be cancerous), and that's known as cancer. A tumor could possibly be malignant if it includes cancer cells or just because of the location. A malignant tumor comprising of cancerous cells can unfold to other elements inside the mind or spinal-cord, subsequently destroying the wholesome tissue. Brain cancer remedies include many mixtures of therapies to effectively battle the condition. A few of choices listed right here?-
Surgical treatment: Mind tumors include all these tumors that are existing inside the cranium and even the central nervous system. The tumors that aren't located close to the necessary components of brain that entail imaginative and prescient or respiration regulation are referred to as very low grade tumors and may very well be eliminated surgically. Surgical procedure is carried out on important brain tumors, and is also typically adopted by radiation therapy. Radiation treatment is accomplished to eliminate perhaps the tiniest traces of tumor. In sure instances chemotherapy can be for successful brain cancer treatments.
This is a preview of Get the Best Treatments for Brain Cancer. Read the full post (633 words, 1 image, estimated 2:32 mins reading time)	Posted in Brain Cancer | Tagged brain cancer, brain cancer treatment, treatments for brain cancer | Leave a comment	Categories
Supporting the ME/CFS Biobank | Your gift in action | LSHTM
The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine is internationally renowned for its ground-breaking research into underexplored diseases, and one research project, the UK ME/CFS Biobank, represents a new venture for LSHTM and the first disease-specific ME/CFS biobank in Europe.
ME (Myalgic Encephalomyelitis) is a long-term fluctuating, neurological condition that affects up to 250,000 people in the UK, and up to 17 million people worldwide. People with ME experience a wide range of debilitating symptoms including severe, persistent fatigue, and an inability to recover after expending even small amounts of energy. As a result, the disease has also been referred to as Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Research into ME/CFS has been extremely limited and the causes of the disease are still unknown, and sufferers can receive conflicting advice on how to manage their symptoms.
The UKMEB Team. Credit Anne Koerber
Preparing blood samples for the UKMEB. Credit Anne Koerber
Storing samples in the UKMEB. Credit Anne Koerber
About CureME and the Biobank project
Since 2006, LSHTM has hosted CureME, a leading ME/CFS research team, which is looking at many aspects of the disease, including the impact on the quality of life for affected individuals and their carers. An extensive feasibility study using a participatory approach established that both researchers and people with ME/CFS saw the need for a biobank – a facility storing blood samples from people from ME/CFS and healthy controls (people without the disease whose samples can be used for comparison) with extensive accompanying data from those individuals. There was evident need for such a resource and in 2016, LSHTM hit the headlines with the launch of the ME/CFS Biobank (UKMEB), Europe's first ME/CFS Biobank and one of few such resources worldwide. This cutting-edge project was supported by Action for ME, The ME Association, ME Research UK and a considerable private donation.
An open resource for ME/CFS research
The UKMEB's mission is to enable high quality, ethical research into ME/CFS. It functions as an open resource for clinical and biomedical research into ME/CFS, and in particular research into the biomarkers of the disease. It empowers studies into the diagnosis, prognosis, and stratification (sub-grouping) of ME/CFS, enabling a wide range of research studies in an extremely cost-effective manner. Researchers from across the globe can receive blood samples from the UKMEB, eliminating the need for the lengthy and expensive local recruitment that hinders many studies. The UKMEB creates an economy of scale: donations to the project fund biomedical research not only at LSHTM but also all over the world.
The UKMEB currently holds over 30,000 samples from over more than 500 donors. Many of the donors visited hospitals in London and East Anglia to give their samples, but donors whose symptoms were too debilitating to allow travel were visited in person by UKMEB staff, who clinically assessed them and took blood samples in their homes. The UKMEB is the only biobank in the world that systematically collects samples from those house- or bed-bound by ME/CFS, and this tissue collection has opened up new critical pathways in the biomedical study of the disease.
"In 2013 as our 25th anniversary approached, we felt it would be an appropriate year in which to make a special contribution to ME/CFS research. The more we looked into the aims and objectives of the UKMEB the more we became convinced that this was a project that we wished to support in our special year. Our membership was enthusiastic too. We eventually decided to donate a sum of £2,500, our largest ever donation, which represented £100 for each year of MED's life, to be used exclusively for the early work of the UKMEB."
John V Smith, Secretary, ME Derbyshire Support Group
"The UKMEB gives me hope that there is a genuine tide of change which is a stark contrast to my experience and that of thousands of others with ME in the UK, and around the world. The Biobank offers hope that through good quality research this horrible disease will be better understood and we can establish roadmaps to biomarkers, treatment, cure and prevention."
Dawn, UKMEB sample donor and supporter
Supporting the Biobank's future
The value of the patient samples held within the UKMEB cannot be overestimated, and the LSHTM team hopes that, in time, the study of these samples will result in breakthroughs in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease. The UKMEB is committed to increasing the number of samples hosted at the biobank, but the cost of participating fully in the UKMEB is up to £2500 per person. The NIH has recently awarded the UKMEB a major grant to facilitate further research, but as samples are used, there is no funding available to replace them; for this, the biobank now depends on philanthropic support. The samples collected to date have been funded by grants and ME/CFS charities as well as individual donations, enabling the UKMEB to become a global resource for ME/CFS researchers and scientists.
The UKMEB is committed to patient participation: a number of patient representatives hold positions on the UKMEB steering group, and regular focus groups involving the wider ME/CFS community are held, ensuring that its research is always informed by and for the benefit of people with ME/CFS. The UKMEB has already contributed to highly significant research in immunology (including on NK and T cells and cytokine profiles), genetics, virology, clinical medicine, epidemiology and on the disabling effects of ME/CFS.
The UKMEB wants to enable global biomedical research into ME/CFS, in the most cost-effective manner possible, by distributing samples and datasets to chosen researchers around the globe. Sample releases have already enabled studies in Valencia (Spain), São Paulo (Brazil) and Oxford (UK), with other applications in progress.
The grants that the UKMEB receive do not pay for any release costs, so additional funds are needed to accelerate the release of samples to scientists. To enable this vital work, the UKMEB has launched a Christmas Appeal. All donations directly support the group's work, helping enhance and expand their research and ensuring project sustainability. Funds donated during this appeal will help to:
Release UKMEB samples to researchers around the world, searching for the biomarkers of ME/CFS.
Ensure the long-term sustainability of the UKMEB as a resource.
All funds donated will be split between these aims, with collaborating research projects to be chosen by the UKMEB Guardian Board. Donations of any amount are welcome, and all will make a difference.
£15 covers the cost of the test tubes and freezer storage for one set of blood samples for five years.
£150 covers the cost of the research nurse visiting people severely affected by ME/CFS at home so that they can be included in the UKMEB.
£2000 covers the cost of one set of patient samples to be taken, tested and stored in the UKMEB.
£10,000 would enable a further blood sample and data release.
£25,000 would enable the release of samples for two or three studies to be conducted.
The UKMEB team will report back to all donors on the progress of research projects funded by this appeal.
You can make your donation directly via CURE-ME fundraising page or by contacting mecfsbiobank@lshtm.ac.uk.
Good fats promote heart health - Washington Times
Good fats promote heart health
Nuts, cheese, avocado, fish not the bad guys
By Dr. Nina Radcliff - - Friday, July 15, 2016
Over time, fat has been ostracized, shamed and demonized. However, not all fat deserves this bad rap. Some fats are essential for our body, as they form the building blocks of cells and tissues. And, too, these fats can promote heart health and fend off a number of chronic health issues. But research shows that many people arbitrarily cut fat and replace it with refined carbs, thus missing out on the benefits of these healthy fats.
If you want to control your weight and live your healthiest life, you can get over your "fat fears" and dig into the fat-rich foods – a healthy body relies on it!!
Dr. Nina's What You Need To Know: About Healthy Fats
Nuts: Although they contain lots of fat calories—nearly 160-200 per ounce—studies show that people who consume nuts live longer and lead healthier lives. In addition to a reduced risk of heart disease, nuts are also associated with decreased Type 2 diabetes as well as Alzheimer's dementia. The reason behind these health benefits is that they are chock-filled with unsaturated fatty acids, omega-3 fatty acids, fiber, vitamin E, and other nutrients that are good for the heart. And there is a saying that what is healthy for the heart is also healthy for the mind.
If you need another reason to go nutty over nuts, they have been shown to help maintain a healthy weight and may even help in slimming down. Some of the theories behind this is that they contain tons of protein, unsaturated fats, and are crunchy, which can translate to a feeling of fullness, or satiety. So although you may be consuming fat calories, in the long run, you end up eating fewer calories overall. And, too, another contributing reason is that approximately 20 percent of the fat in nuts are not absorbed by the body. It's like getting a 20 percent discount on fat calories!
Avocado: With their green, bumpy skin and pear shape, avocados have been aptly dubbed "alligator pears," and are loaded with fat. In fact, 77% of its calories come from fat making it a unique fruit indeed—and, yes, it is a fruit because it has a seed.
The primary fat is oleic acid, a monosaturated fatty acid, which is also present in olive oil and is believed to bestow numerous health benefits. Research suggests that this "healthy fat" helps to lower the risk of heart disease, bad cholesterol levels (low-density lipoproteins; LDL), and inflammation. Its benefits do not stop there. Oleic acid appears to improve fasting blood sugar levels, insulin sensitivity, and blood circulation. And as a result, it may help fend off diabetes and improve blood sugar control in those who are pre-diabetic or diabetic.
Additionally, the alligator pear contains 20 different vitamins and minerals and is rich in fiber, devoid of cholesterol and sodium, and low in saturated fat and carbohydrates. Another interesting fact is that avocados are a great source of potassium, with 40% more of this essential mineral than bananas, which are touted for this. Potassium plays an important role in blood pressure control, fluid balance, and nerve condition, to name a few. And the icing on the cake (figuratively, not literally) is that research shows those who eat avocados tend to weigh less and have less belly fat than those who do not.
Fatty fish (salmon, trout, mackerel, sardines, herring):
Yummy and good for you—these flavorful fish are filed with omega-3 fatty acids. And while the health benefits from consuming a diet rich in omega-3s is long, I would like to bring attention to a noteworthy benefit: it can decrease the risk for depression and anxiety. Furthermore, one small study, published in the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry, stated that omega-3 fatty acid was found to have equal therapeutic effects to a leading prescription anti-depressant in those who suffered from major depressive disorder. And in fact, the combination of omega-3 fatty acid and the prescription medication had superior effects compared to either of them alone.
Omega-3 fatty acids have also been shown to lower the risk of heart disease, dementia, inflammation, and improve skin and eye health as well as sleep. For those who are vegetarians or not so fond of fish, flaxseeds, walnuts, soybeans, tofu, and cauliflower are other good options to get your daily dose. And, too, omega-3 supplements are available.
Cheese lovers everywhere can rejoice! I know I am!! Despite the calorie and fat content, cheese consumption may help attain a slimmer waistline. Let's take a look at the "French paradox." The French have one of the highest rates of cheese consumption in the world—approximately 57 pounds of cheese every year. However, their rate of cardiovascular disease and obesity is significantly lower than Americans.
While the reason behind this slimming effect is not entirely clear, researchers believe that the calcium binds to fat in the intestines and decreases fat absorption. How was this discovered? By faithful, diligent, and brave researchers who measured fat content in feces (a.k.a. "poop"). And, no, you cannot get the same results with calcium supplements.
There is also evidence to suggest that the fatty acid butyrate found in aged cheeses—also produced by bacteria in the gut—can contribute to this. It is believed that it revs up our metabolism, improves insulin sensitivity, as well as decreases bad cholesterol levels and inflammation.
And let's not forget that olive and coconut oils, dark chocolate, whole eggs, grass-fed beef (and grass-fed butter) – all known for their high fat content can be healthy for you in moderation (and watching calorie counts). Experts agree, all fats are not evil!!! In fact, the right fats can help to hustle-up your metabolism, help ensure optimum brain function for years to come and balance your hormones as well as help your skin glow. Time to get over the "fat" phobia by doing your homework and look for ways to add healthy and nutritious fats to your cooking and diet, daily.
Improving maternal, newborn and child health in...
Dates: 01/03/08 - 30/06/13
Principal Investigator: Prof Anthony Costello
Partners: Women and Children First (WCF) – UK, Perinatal Care Project- Diabetic Association of Bangladesh (BADAS) – Bangladesh, Ekjut -India
Contact: m.caspillo-brewer@ucl.ac.uk
IGH is working with consortium partners to mobilise communities to address their maternal, newborn and child health challenges.
In India, the programme involves scaling up community mobilisation with women's groups in eight districts of Jharkhand and Orissa and strengthening the capacity of Village Health and Sanitation Committees to understand and demand their rights and entitlements.
In Bangladesh, partners are expanding the coverage of women's groups to improve maternal, newborn and child health.
This is a 5-year programme funded by a Big Lottery Fund Strategic Award.
In rural communities where access to health facilities is poor, improvements in maternal, newborn and child health require interventions that increase both the supply and demand for appropriate care. Since deliveries and care mainly occur in the community rather than in facilities, interventions must improve both home care practices and the timely use of quality services. Participatory women's groups are a bottom-up intervention that addresses both supply and demand factors through community participation. These groups can lead to sustainable changes in health outcomes for mothers and babies. Building on the results of previous interventions with participatory women's groups, the BIG-funded portfolio seeks to scale-up and evaluate the impact of groups on neonatal, child (under-5) health and women's health outcomes, in India and Bangladesh, and to evaluate whether the gains achieved through the earlier phase of the intervention on neonatal survival and maternal health can be sustained over time.
Dr Tanja Houweling
The double burden of obesity and malnutrition in a protracted emergency setting: a cross-sectional study of Western Sahara refugees (2012) Resources
VIDEO: Reducing child mortality and improving maternal health
VIDEO: Ekjut film
Following the proven effectiveness of participatory women's groups on maternal and newborn health, the intervention is being adapted, applied and evaluated to assess its potential to improve child health more broadly and the health of women, including reproductive health.
In 2013, partners in Bangladesh were awarded a WHO Implementation Research Platform grant to implement the participatory women's group intervention in some of the trial control areas. It is hoped that this project will help to clarify some of the essential features and mechanisms through which women's groups achieve impact on neonatal mortality.
In 2014, partners in India and UCL will publish the results of a recently completed trial of participatory women's groups facilitated by Accredited Social Health Activists to improve maternal and newborn health.
