Postdoctoral Fellow in Developing MR Imaging Method (University of Hong Kong Department of Diagnostic Radiology )
Postdoctoral Fellow in Developing MR Imaging Method
University of Hong Kong Department of Diagnostic Radiology
Post-Doctoral Fellow in Developing MR Imaging Method from Hyperpolarized C13 Nano-Diamond in Vivo
Ref.: 500314
Department: Department of Diagnostic Radiology (20500)
Applications are invited for appointment as Post­-doctoral Fellow in developing MR imaging method from hyperpolarized C13 nano-diamond in vivo in the Department of Diagnostic Radiology (Ref.: 500314), to commence as soon as possible for one year, with the possibility of renewal subject to satisfactory performance and funding availability.
Applicants should have a Ph.D. degree in Quantum Physics, Medical Physics, Biomedical Engineering or related disciplines. They should be self-driven, highly motivated, creative with excellent communication skills in written and spoken English. This research aims at a new low-cost metabolic imaging using hyperpolarized C13 nano-diamond and MRI. Applicants should have the relevant experience in quantum optics, microscopy and programming. The appointee will work in a multidisciplinary environment that requires exceptional research and problem-solving skills. Research training on MRI data acquisition and sequence development will be provided. He/She will also be provided with the opportunity to work on state-of-the-art C13 hyperpolarization techniques. Enquiries about the post can be sent to Dr. Cao Peng at caopeng1@hku.hk and Dr. Chu, Zhiqin at zqchu@eee.hku.hk. Applicants who have responded to the previous advertisement (Ref.: 499778) need not re-apply.
The University only accepts online application for the above post. Applicants should apply online and upload an up-to-date C.V. Review of applications will start as soon as possible and continue until July 15, 2020, or until the post is filled, whichever is earlier.
Good research should be easily validated, well organized, and properly designed, hence that it can properly address the inquiry query. Mathematical issues should be taken early in the system study, to avoid useless studies that produce subject risk. Inquiry should be passed on with high requirements of quality details analysis. Manufacturing, falsification, concealment, misleading confirming, or misunderstanding of data comprises medical wrong doings should be carefully prevented. Recorded evaluation and advantage from a officially constituted evaluation board would be respected.
The recommendations for preferred presentation and analysis of data should be described in the Information for Contributors or Authors. Wherever possible, recommendations should be grounded on evidence about methods of data presentation that are readable and most likely to be read correctly by readers. Editors should keep themselves informed of this research and accommodate their recommendations as it develops.
Plagiarism is the use of others' released and unregistered concepts or terms (or other perceptive property) without attribution or authorization, and introducing them as new and unique rather than based on a current resource. The objective and impact of plagiarism is to misinform individuals as to the efforts of the buccaneer. This is applicable whether the concepts or conversation are taken from abstracts, analysis allow programs, Institutional Evaluation Panel programs, or unregistered or released manuscripts in any book structure (print or electronic).
Self-plagiarism signifies routine of a writer using areas of their old documents on the same subject in another of their journals, without particularly stating it officially in quotations. This work out is extensive and sometimes accidental, as there are just so many methods to learn the exact same factor on many features, especially when composing the techniques part of a piece of writing. Although this usually smashes the trademark that has been assigned to the founder, there is no agreement as to whether this is a type of scientific misconduct, or how many of one's own terms one can use before it is truly "plagiarism." Probably for this purpose self-piracy is not seen in the same mild as plagiarism of the concepts and terms of other individuals.
Animal Hospital Middleton - Small, Affordable, And Emergency Animal Hospital
Animal Hospital in Middleton
Trusted veterinary care for pets by a 24-hour animal hospital in Middleton that will treat your pets like family.
Home > Middleton > Animal Hospital Middleton
Get Trusted Care For Your Pet From This Animal Hospital in Middleton That Will Treat Your Pets Like Family. We Are A 24-hour Pet Animal Hospital Near You. We Provide All Creatures, Pets, And Animals, Emergency Hospital Services in Middleton.
If you are searching for a 24 hour emergency animal hospital that will treat your pets like family, bring your pet to Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton hospital. We look forward to meeting your beloved pet and to earning your trust as your pet's veterinarian. From preventive wellness treatment to Emergency Veterinary Services we have your pet covered. Whether your visit is routine or something urgent, one of our trained veterinarians are here to assist you. The level of Animal Nurturing Services offered at Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton makes us a trusted clinic for all of your pet's veterinary needs. We provide a range of services to help your pet live it's best life. Our skilled veterinary staff will make sure that our patients receive Quality Care And Medication at all times. We invite you to get to know the veterinarians on our team by contacting Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton and scheduling a time to come visit. We will be happy to show you around, examine your pet, and offer any services that may be needed.
Animal Hospital Veterinary Specialist in Middleton
Our professional veterinarians and team provide Spaying And Neutering Services for your pets. From the design of our Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton hospital, the selection of our employees, our priority is the safety and comfort of you and your beloved pet. Our aim is to keep your pet happy and well. We have the latest in technology, including digital x-rays and ultrasound, to properly Diagnose Your Pet's Health problems. We have a caring and experienced team to care for your pet. You can rely on Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton for all your veterinary needs.
Middleton Animal Hospital Emergency Veterinary Services
Animal Hospital Nutritional Counseling in Middleton
We at Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton offer nutritional counseling for pet owners of Middleton, and nearby communities. If you have any doubts about your pet's diet or if you would like further information, please get in touch with us today so we can establish a Nutrition Plan For Your Pet. Obesity is a real issue among pets, as it can be easy to overfeed a pet that knows how to beg. But being overweight is a serious problem for animals, and can cause real health problems as they get older. With the right diet and exercise, all pets should be able to meet their dietary goals and be within a healthy weight range.
Animal Hospital Veterinary Dental Services in Middleton
Dental hygiene is vital to the health of any animal. Dental disease leads to health issues with the heart, liver, and kidneys, and can impact the entire body through the bloodstream. In spite of these worrisome facts, many pet owners are not aware that Dental Medication is key to their pet's health. The most efficient way to protect your pet from dental issues is through Professional Dental Cleaning at Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton. Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton will implement thorough cleanings, including the space beneath the gums that you can't see or reach at home.
Middleton Animal Hospital Veterinary Surgery
We are proud to give Middleton, and neighboring communities with state-of-the-art Veterinary Surgical Procedures. We believe in using the latest in medical technology, and our surgeons are experienced and highly reliable. We also understand that it can be troubling to have your Pet Undergo Surgery. We want to assure you that your pet is in good hands, and that we will do everything to provide the best care and treatment possible.
Middleton Animal Hospital Vaccinations
At Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton in Middleton, we believe that one of the most important points of Caring for Your Pet's Health is vaccinating them against possible ailments. There are a variety of diseases that affect our pets and animals, so the right Vaccination is vital in protecting them from the many forms of ailments they are susceptible to. It's important to consult with us about the specific dangers of living in our region. Dogs & Cats Veterinarian Middleton will be glad to discuss it with you.
Crystal Touch Bell's palsy research - Synkinesis recovery is possible
Synkinesis recovery is possible
Crystal Touch conducts an extensive scientific research on Bell's palsy and its complications. Our results show that synkinesis recovery is possible and Bell's palsy long-term complications can be reduced. These statements are supported not only by our scientific work, but also by the results that our patients are able to achieve in Crystal Touch clinic.
«Synkinesis after Bell's palsy is reversible» — Presentation at the WCNR in Philadelphia, USA
During the 9th World Congress for Neuro-Rehabilitation — "From Science to Society" we have presented our findings that synkinesis recovery is possible. Facial synkinesis is NOT a result of aberrant regeneration of facial nerve. It is a CONDITIONED REFLEX, and it is therefore, reversible. This is the conclusion of 5 years of research at Crystal Touch clinic. Watch the video for the full explanation of our findings to understand how synkinesis happens and how it can be recovered.
Furthermore, you can take a look at the recovery stories of our patients — how they were able to recover from synkinesis and other Bell's palsy complications after 10, 20 and even 30 years after the onset!
«Bell's palsy as a functional disorder»: its causes and physiological mechanisms of development. Major contributing factors, therapies and medications that can facilitate the recovery at early stages (from 2 weeks to 3 months)
«Bell's palsy complications: their manifestations and the existing methods» of treatments at mid-term stages of the recovery (from 3 months to 1 year)
«Assessment of the recovery and complications after Bell's palsy»: commonly used grading scales, questionnaires and software-based video analysis methods that allow to grade and monitor the recovery of the functions of facial nerve and facial muscles
«Development and verification of the method» of Crystal Touch Neuro-Proprioceptive facial Rehabilitation for the treatment of Bell's palsy complications at remote stages of the recovery (more than 1 year)
«Emotional, psychological and physiological consequences of complications» after long-standing Bell's palsy, and their impact on patients' quality of life
«Development and verification of the quantitative and objective» instrumental method of Synkinetic Correlation for measuring of synkinesis and contractures of facial muscles
«The Origin of facial synkinesis after Bell's palsy». Psycho-physiological, behavioral and social factors that contribute to their forming. Scientific substantiation of reversibility of facial synkinesis
Our specialists can do an assessment of your situation and give a prognosis for your possible recovery via e-mail, for free. They will give a prognosis on your recovery process and provide an advice on what you can start doing yourself to ease your situation. We are here to help you to bring your smile back!
Our participation in International Congresses
9th World Congress for Neuro-Rehabilitation — "From Science to Society"
(10-13 May 2016, Philadelphia, USA)
"The Origin of Synkinesis: the most common complication of Bell's Palsy is in fact reversible»
The aim of our trip to Philadelphia was to present results of our research to international scientific society and to increase the awareness about the problem and the social impact of long-standing Bell's palsy complications.
(December 2015 Vienna, Austria)
"Measuring Synkinesis after Bell's Palsy: Objective, Quantitative, Instrumental method of Synkinetic Correlation"
International Congress on NeuroRehabilitation and Neural Repair – "NeuroRehabilitation and Neuroscience Connected"
(May 2015 Maastricht, The Netherlands)
"Efficacy of neuro-proprioceptive facial rehabilitation method (NPR) for the lasting reduction of Bell's palsy sequelae in the later stages of the recovery"
8th World Congress for NeuroRehabilitation – "Towards New Horizons in NeuroRehabilitation"
(April-2014 Istanbul, Turkey)
XXI World Congress of Neurology – "Neurology in the Age of Globalization"
(September-2013 Vienna, Austria)
Семинары о Неврите Лицевого Нерва
Узнайте больше о семинарах о неврите лицевого нерва или зарегистрируйтесь заполнив форму ниже. У нас так же проходят вебинары для тех кто не может приехать в Роттердам или Лондон.
Я приеду на следующий семинар в:
Роттердаме, 14 апреля 2018 (на голландском)
У меня неврит (паралич Белла) уже
Crystal Touch клиника заботится о Вашей конфиденциальности
We have created a Bell's Palsy Video Course to provide you with fundamental knowledge about the causes of facial palsies and Bell's palsy in particular, about synkinesis, other possible residuals and complications and available methods of recovery.
Dr. Aggarwal's Eye Hospital Nets Patent for Innovative Drug Delivery | Medicare News
Hospitals Dr. Aggarwal's Eye Hospital Nets Patent for Innovative Drug Delivery
Dr. Aggarwal's Eye Hospital Nets Patent for Innovative Drug Delivery
The Tirunelveli branch of Dr. Agarwal's Eye Hospital gets a patent for an innovative drug delivery technique to treat deeper corneal infections effectively. "Corneal Implants" a new innovative technique that can treat Keratitis – inflammation of the cornea caused by both bacterial and fungal damages claimed by the hospital.
Lional Raj D, regional medical director of Dr. Agarwal Eye Hospital, Tirunelveli, whose team invented the technique and stated to the reporters that Keratitis problem could lead to blindness and this technique can save the user from blindness. He also added, according to the estimations, 30% of Keratitis cases in India leads to blindness. Fortified antibiotic eye drops are the presently available measure to treat an infectious corneal disease that requires frequent administration. Due to poor penetration of drugs by eye drops, the bioavailability of antibiotics in the deeper corneal tissues is limited.
With this innovative technique, two-three months of treatment required and varies for each individual and costs ranges from Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000. It is free from side-effects like with the use of eye-drops. The technique first implemented and tried on Antony Raj, 45, a Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation worker in December 2016.
PHE 444U : Global Health - Oregon Health & Science University -
PHE 444U * We aren't endorsed by this school
PHE 444U - Fall 2016
It use to be that chronic diseases were only the problem of high-income countries, but increasingly low- and middle-income countries have seen an increase in noncommunicable disease burden as they develop economically, become more integrated with the glob
1 A social gradient is a ladder, scale, or hierarchy ranking of a persons social status in society. The idea behind it is that the health and health outcomes of an individual decrease in scale corresponding to social determinants. Where a person falls on
1 When The UN set the Millennium Development Goals, womens health was a major theme. They set goals to reduce the maternal mortality rate by 75%, improve maternal health, promote gender equality and empower women [Skolnik 2012]. All of these goals were ad
Currently the World Health Organization estimates that there are nearly 4-5 hundred million people living on our planet affected with some sort of mental illness [Patel 2012]. The global mental health burden has dramatically increased due to population gr
If you are overweight or obese, you are not alone. But what you might not know is just how bad being overweight is for your body and its ailments. The first reason is that the fat we have on our belly, butt, and thighs is not just ugly flab that weighs down your joints and muscles. Scientists believe that excess fat in the body also leads to inflammation and releases a range of potentially toxic substances which can leave you open to illness, or even trigger it.
The second reason is that body fat damages our metabolism, slowing it down, thus making it even harder for you to lose weight. Exercising to build muscle will reduce your overall percentage of body fat, and thus the number of toxins in your body as you increase your metabolism.
Lean muscle burns the calories you consume much more efficiently, leading to weight loss and healthy weight maintenance once you reach your weight loss goal. Yoga, tai chi, light weights, and resistance bands can all help you build lean muscle without looking like a bodybuilder.
Another important reason why being overweight is so dangerous is that it is now being described as a persistent low level of chronic inflammation in the body. Therefore, doing all you can to get down to a normal, healthy weight and reducing the wear and tear on the body from inflammation can do a great deal to improve your overall health.
Watching what you eat can help cut calories, but did you know it can also reduce inflammation and add disease-fighting antioxidants to your diet? Eating a rainbow everyday of fresh fruits and vegetables can help you lose weight even as you eat a more nutritious and balanced diet.
Anti-inflammatory foods include salmon, broccoli, olive oil and peppers. Antioxidants are powerful disease-fighting agents found in red kidney bean, blueberries, apples and more.
Fruits and vegetables should be the cornerstones of any attempt to lose weight healthily. The water content and fiber will help you feel full for longer. They are also so tasty that adding these foods to your eating lifestyle will usually mean you will be more likely to steer clear of foods that are bad for you, such as red meat and highly-processed sugary sweets made with white sugar and white flour.
Exercise is key to reducing blood pressure and inflammation, decreasing stress, and elevating mood. Therefore, when used in combination with a healthy diet, you should soon see the benefits of weight loss for your appearance, mood and immune system.
Share
Share
0 Shares
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Type here..
Name*
Email*
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Recent Posts
Foods That Can Help Boost Your Immune System
Health Conditions That Can Improve When You Go Gluten-Free
Why Eating Out Can Be Bad For Your Health And What To Do About It
Boosting Your Immune System: Separating The Myths From The Facts
New Link Found Between The Brain And Your Immune System
About Mood Restoration Institute
Known for her successful treatment of mystery illnesses, Dr. Erin Amato and her team at Mood Restoration Institute combine an integrative, functional medicine approach with the appropriate lab testing.
Our unique approach to diagnosing and treating diseases and disorders recognizes that lasting health depends on resolution of the root causes of your disease. Click here to learn more »
Copyright © 2022 Mood Restoration Institute • 3737 Grand Avenue, Suite 4 Billings, MT 59102 • Phone: 406.670.1498
The American Journal of Managed Care > August 2017 – Published on: August 28, 2017
Our analysis focused on TRICARE Prime (a health maintenance organization [HMO]–like system) enrollees who were assigned a primary care manager to oversee their total care, making it more likely that complete episodes of care occurred within the purview of TRICARE. In addition, these beneficiaries had either very low or no out-of-pocket costs. Compared with the VA, whose beneficiaries receive care through a network of VA facilities, these enrollees can receive care in both the budget-based direct care system (in Military Treatment Facilities [MTFs]) and the fee-for-service (FFS) purchased care system (managed by civilian providers).18 Because Prime enrollees tend to be concentrated near military facilities, the percentage of direct care provision varies significantly. TRICARE therefore offers a unique perspective on variation given its centrally managed dual system of care and its use of administrative pricing in the community setting. Taken together, these characteristics suggest lower geographic variation in costs and utilization than for other payers, although local market factors and practice styles may still play a role.
Research and teaching at the Science, Technology and Society Unit has two interconnected aims: to better understand the various societal and environmental implications of technology development and – based on this knowledge – to strengthen research and innovation in line with broader societal needs.
This type of research is conducted at early stages of technology innovation and in an inter- and transdisciplinary way by bringing together scientists and engineers from all disciplines and by involving technology users and stakeholder groups.
Our research is frequently contributing to or organized as technology assessment, ELSA (ethical, legal and social aspects) studies, feminist studies, science, technology and society studies (STS), sustainability studies, and policy analysis.
On 8 and 9 November 2019 Armin Spök and his team held a stakeholder consultation in Berlin to discuss opportunities and challenges for plant breeders, farmers, food and feed processors, regulators, and researchers to use of genome editing techniques in developing new plant varieties. According to a recent ruling of the European Court of Justice plants derived from genome editing are subject to the EU harmonised legislation on genetically modified organisms. This ruling is perceived by scientits and plant breeders to be a major hurdle for breeding innovation but welcomed by environmental organisations.
Armin Spök chaired the two-day consultaion together with Matthias Arlt from the Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology. The workshop was organised in the context of ELSA GEA project funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
Armin Spök is a consortium partner of a technology assessment project commissioned by the Swiss TA-Swiss Foundation on genome editing.
The Swiss Federal Council has announced its intention to adapt national genetic engingeering legislation in order to adapt it to the new technological possiblities and challenges of genome editing.
Before Christian Dayé worked at the Department of Sociology of the University of Graz and the University Klagenfurt. His main fields of research are Sociology of science, knowledge and technology, Responsible research and innovation, Social research methods and methodology and Social theory. Current he is working on the EU-CHIC project led by Armin Spök.
Tony Ross-Hellauer and Bernhard Wieser gave a paper on "The Matthew Effect in Open Science" at the "Open-Access-Tage 2018" in Graz.
In our call for sessions we suggest the following thematic fields and we would like to encourage participants to think outside the box by combining thematic fields and considering potential intersections (interactive sessions formats, such as discussion groups, slow talks, etc. are welcome too).
For submitting your session abstract, please use this online form and send an abstract (max. 500 words) no later than October 31, 2018
We are happy to announce the educational offer of our Unit for the winter term 2018/19 and are looking forward to a lively exchange with interested students.
Applications should be written in English and submitted by e-mail to office.stsnoSpam@tugraz.at, Science, Technology and Society Unit, Graz University of Technology, no later than 24.08.2018.
The Science, Technology and Society Unit organized in cooperation with the IFZ Graz and the IAS-STS the 17th Annual STS Conference Graz. The conference offered the oportunity to present and dicuss a broad spectrum on themes in the area of digitalization of society, gender-technology and environment, sustainable food systems, life sciences/biotechnologies and much more.
About 200 reseachers from all over the world presented their work in this fields with a specific focus on critical issues in science, technology and society studies.
On the 27th of April 2018, the YEP - Zukunftswerkstatt (WEC - World Energy Council Austria) took place in the premises of the Federation of industrialists. Representatives from NGOs in the field of energy economics, as well as envoys from known energy companies, took part in the WEC-sponsored discussions. At the beginning there was a talk by Günter Getzinger on the topic "The future of the energy industry". Under the moderation of Jürgen Suschek-Berger, the methodology of the Zukunftswerkstatt was explained and subsequently enacted in small groups.
Armin Spök was invited as Guest Associate Editor for a Special Issue on "Plant Genome Editing - Policies and Governance" jointly hosted by Frontierts in Plant Science and Plant Biotechnology, Biosafety and Biosecurity. In the field of plant sciences Frontiers runs a number of highly cited open access journals.
“[B]ut when we compare the genetic sequence of this new virus with all other known coronaviruses, all of its closest relatives have origins in mammals, specifically bats. Therefore, without further details on testing of animals in the markets, it looks like we are no closer to knowing this virus’ natural reservoir,” EcoHealth Alliance said in a January 23 release.
A January 29 study published in the New England Journal of Medicine analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases of novel coronavirus infected pneumonia in Wuhan.
The median age among the sample is 59 years and the majority are male. The majority of cases with onset before the start of 2020 were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market.
