Fellowships & Training < The Consultation Center at Yale
Over the past 25 years, we have trained more than 45 postdoctoral fellows, 135 doctoral psychology fellows, 30 social work trainees, a dozen psychiatric residents, and several dozen graduate students from different fields.
Our students are diverse and come from around the globe. They go on to careers in academia, clinical or community practice, medicine, public policy, education, nonprofit organizations, and government.
The Consultation Center at Yale is a multidisciplinary training site for undergraduate, graduate, and professional students in psychology, social work, psychiatry, nursing, education, public health, and divinity. Training is a central part of The Center's mission and integrated fully into service and research activities. Predoctoral Fellowship in Clinical & Community Psychology and Postdoctoral Training Program in Substance Abuse Prevention Research. If you are interested in an undergraduate or graduate internship opportunity, please email your resume and cover letter to susan.florio@yale.edu.
Predoctoral Training Program in Clinical and Community Psychology
The major aim of the Pre-doctoral training program is to foster the student's acquisition of skills as a clinician, as a provider of clinical, consultative, and preventative services, and eventually as a clinical investigator. We emphasize the coordination of intensive, theoretically-based, supervised, clinical experiences with systematic evaluations of observations and assumptions made in clinical and community practice. Primary placement at the Center provides fellows with a range of community-based training experiences in consultation, prevention, program evaluation, staff development, and related research. Fellows receive professional training through project assignments under the supervision of faculty and staff. Click here for more information about the Pre-doctoral Training Program.
Postdoctoral Training Program in Substance Abuse Prevention Research
Two-year NIDA T32 Postdoctoral Fellowship: The Division of Prevention and Community Research, Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine.
The program emphasizes five areas of research training:
Conceptualization, design, and implementation of prevention research using a social ecological framework.
Knowledge development and application in pre-intervention, intervention, and dissemination research.
Use of state-of-the-art data analytic and research methods.
Interdisciplinary research through collaborations across programs, departments, centers, and institutions.
Translational research from controlled settings to real-world contexts with the purpose of impacting prevention practice and policy.
Training occurs through seminars, focused research activities, and close mentorship with faculty scientific advisors in order to prepare fellows as future prevention researchers. Please click here for more information about the program.
Read about our two most recent fellows:
My doctoral training was in clinical and community psychology. Additionally, I am interested in examining settings that promote the wellbeing of marginalized populations. While at The Consultation Center at Yale I was involved in two projects.
I completed my B.A. in Psychology at San Diego State University and attended DePaul University's Clinical-Community Psychology Ph.D. program in Chicago, IL. My research experiences at DePaul University focused on the intersection of mental health and educational outcomes among underserved youth.
Fault Analysis Of Field Control Instrument System With Different Parameters - News - Guangzhou JunXin Precision Machinery Co.,Ltd
Fault Analysis Of Field Control Instrument System With Different Parameters
1. Fault analysis of flow control instrument system
(1) When the flow control instrument system indicates that the value reaches the minimum, first check the on-site detection instrument. If it is normal, the fault is on the display instrument. When the on-site instrumentation indicator is also the smallest, check the valve opening degree. If the valve opening degree is zero, it is often a fault between the regulator valve and the regulator. When the on-site detection instrument indicates the minimum and the adjustment valve opening is normal, the cause of the failure may be caused by insufficient system pressure, blockage of the digital display controller system, no pumping, crystallization of the medium, improper operation, and the like. If it is a fault in the instrument, the reasons are: the orifice differential pressure flowmeter may be a positive pressure pilot conduit plug; the differential pressure transmitter positive pressure chamber leak; the mechanical flowmeter is a gear stuck or a filter plug.
(2) When the flow control instrument system indicates that the value reaches the maximum, the test instrument will often indicate the maximum. At this point, the manual remote control valve can be opened or closed. If the flow rate can be lowered, it is generally caused by the process operation. If the flow value does not fall, it is caused by the instrument system. Check whether the regulating valve of the flow control instrument system is operating; check whether the measuring system is normal; check whether the signal transmission system of the instrument is normal.
(3) The flow control instrument system indicates that the value fluctuates frequently, and the control can be changed to manual. If the fluctuation is reduced, the instrument is the cause or the instrument control parameter PID is not suitable. If the fluctuation is still frequent, it is the process operation. Caused by.
2. Fault analysis of liquid level control instrument system
(1) When the indication value of the liquid level control instrument system changes to the maximum or minimum, you can check whether the detection instrument is normal. If the indication is normal, change the liquid level control to the manual remote control liquid level to see the liquid level change. If the liquid level can be stabilized within a certain range, the fault is in the liquid level control system; if the liquid level is stable, it is generally the fault caused by the process system, and the cause should be found from the process.
(2) When the differential pressure type liquid level control instrument indication and the on-site direct reading type indicating instrument are not on, first check whether the on-site direct reading type indicating instrument is normal. If the indication is normal, check the negative pressure guiding of the differential pressure type liquid level meter. Whether there is leakage in the pressure tube sealing liquid; if there is leakage, refilling liquid, zero adjustment point; no leakage, it may be that the negative migration amount of the meter is wrong, and the migration quantity is re-adjusted so that the meter indication is normal.
(3) When the liquid level control instrument system indicates that the fluctuation of the indication value is frequent, firstly, the capacity of the liquid level control object should be analyzed to analyze the cause of the failure. The large capacity is generally caused by the instrument failure. When the capacity is small, it is necessary to analyze whether the process operation has changed. If there is a change, it is likely that the process causes frequent fluctuations. If there is no change, it may be caused by instrument failure.
3, temperature control instrument system failure analysis steps
When analyzing the temperature control instrument system failure, we must first pay attention to two points: the system instrument uses electric instrument measurement, indication and control; the measurement of the system instrument often lags behind.
(1) The indication value of the temperature meter system suddenly changes to the maximum or minimum, which is generally the fault of the instrument system. Because the temperature meter system measures a large lag, no sudden changes will occur. The cause of the fault at this time is mostly caused by thermocouple, thermal resistance, compensation wire breakage or transmitter amplifier failure.
(2) The temperature control instrument system indicates that there is a rapid oscillation phenomenon, which is mostly caused by improper adjustment of the control parameter PID.
(3) The temperature control instrument system indicates a large and slow fluctuation, which is probably caused by a change in process operation. If there is no change in the process operation at the time, it is likely to be a malfunction of the instrument control system itself.
(4) Failure analysis step of the temperature control system itself: check whether the input signal of the regulating valve changes, the input signal does not change, the regulating valve acts, the diaphragm of the diaphragm head is leaked; whether the input signal of the regulating valve positioner changes, the input signal No change, the output signal changes, the positioner is faulty; check the positioner input signal changes, then check the regulator output for change, if the regulator input does not change, the output changes, this is the regulator itself failure.
4. Failure analysis of pressure control instrument system
(1) When the pressure control system indicates that there is rapid oscillation fluctuation, first check whether the process operation has changed. This change is mostly caused by poor process setting and PID parameter tuning of the regulator.
(2) The pressure control system indicates that the dead line is present, the process operation changes the pressure indication or does not change, the general fault occurs in the pressure measurement system, first check whether the measurement of the pressure guiding conduit system is blocked, not blocked, check the pressure change The transmitter output system has no change, there is a change, and the fault is in the controller measurement indication system.
The above is only the on-site fault analysis of the four common parameters of the site to control the instrument. There are some complicated control loops in the actual site, such as cascade control, split control, program control, interlock control and so on. The analysis of these faults is more complicated and needs to be analyzed.
Solution: Exclusion method
1. When the system is controlled, the judgment should be the same. It is easy to find the problem by determining the fault after each part is independent.
2. It is only the instrument displayed on the spot. It is suspected that the display data is not normal. The data can be estimated according to the process environment. If it is too far away, it will only be checked and adjusted.
3. On-site controlled instrument, suspected that the display data is not normal, can be automatically disconnected, observed, fixed process conditions data, you can determine whether the collected data is normal. If the control result is unstable, it is first determined whether the data acquisition is normal. The method is the same as above. Because the data acquisition is not normal, the control result is definitely not good.
After the above questions are judged, the actuator is normally started when checking the soft manual output. Finally adjust the PID parameters.
I have copd. What kind of allergy medication is safe to take with diazepam? - Answered by top doctors on HealthTap
Most new ones. Antihistamines such as Claritin (loratadine), Allegra (fexofenadiine) and even zyrtec (cetirizine) are safe to take with other medications in persons with copd. It's best to avoid antihistamines that cause drowsiness (like benadryl) as this side effect may be worsened with diazepam. The most effective treatment for nasal allergies is nasal steroid sprays with no interaction with diazepam.
Dr. Doanh Nguyen, md, faaaai, University of Texas Medical School at Houston Answered Jun. 6, 2013
Med interaction. There are many medications that are used to treated allergies. I supposed your question mentioning about over the counter allergy medications. They are usually safe to take together with diazepam and when you have a diagnosis of copd. First generation otc allergy med like Benadryl (diphenhydramine) is also drowsy so precaution should be taken when you also take diazepam. Read more...
Dr. Dennis Clifford, University of Minnesota Medical School Answered Feb. 6, 2013
Several. Claritin, (loratadine) Allegra and zyrtec are safe and tend to cause less drowsiness than other antihistamines. Excessive drowsiness with diazepam can occur with chlorpheniramine or brompheniramine which are in many over the counter allergy medications. There is a theoretic concern of thickening sputum and causing more airflow obstruction. Read more...
Global Efforts to Stop the Spread of COVID-19 Undermined by Vaccine Side Effect Concerns | BioPharma Dive
Global Efforts to Stop the Spread of COVID-19 Undermined by Vaccine Side Effect Concerns
Insights from Sermo's COVID-19 Real Time Barometer Survey point toward disease becoming endemic and need for more effective patient education
New York, NY – May, 20 2021 - As the rate of people receiving COVID-19 vaccinations has slowed, a new survey of physicians has revealed that doctors are working hard to combat vaccine hesitancy, even among those who have already received their first dose. More than 72% of physicians surveyed said that patients continue to voice concerns over vaccine side effects. Still, others have reported ongoing misinformation discouraging people from getting vaccines. In addition, close to 30% of physicians reported encountering patients who have skipped their second dose due to unpleasant side effects of the first dose, or concerns over side effects.
Sermo's COVID-19 Real Time Barometer also showed over half of physicians report their patients have requested a specific vaccine with a clear preference for the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, as 78% of physicians indicated it's the most requested and Moderna following at a distant second (7%). In Europe, almost 93% of physicians reported Pfizer-BioNTech was the most requested.
Physician Views on COVID-19 Vaccines
Fielded May 4 – May 8, 2021, over 3,000 physicians around the world provided feedback, of which close to 40% have treated between 10-100 patients with COVID. The survey found most physicians are currently not optimistic that COVID-19 will be eradicated with 75% of physicians believing COVID-19 vaccine boosters will be required annually, and of that, 35% believing their patients will likely see it as similar to the annual flu jab.
This may be attributed to the ongoing vaccine hesitancy physicians reported. In addition to worries over side effects, physicians reported that they have also heard ongoing concerns about safety and efficacy (60%) or erroneous or misinformation, such as you don't need a vaccine if you had COVID-19 (32%), the vaccine modifies your DNA (29%) or the vaccine contains a microchip (15%).
Physicians are countering the vaccination resistance mostly by discussing the risk benefit profile (80%) and the impact COVID-19 can have on others (61%), while 14% are connecting patients to community resources, such as peer engagement, but not finding success. "I am burned out with efforts to convince patients to get vaccinated," said Charles LaTendresse MD, Family Medicine, U.S. "I try to get their reasoning for not getting the vaccine, but I can't buy into what I hear." he added.
"Our survey reveals that while sharing effective vaccinations and therapies worldwide is vital, it is not enough," said Peter Kirk, CEO Sermo. "There is a tremendous urgency to counter misinformation and disinformation and share which messages and approaches have been successful in convincing people to get vaccinated."
COVID-19 and Neurological / Mental Impact
Data is continuing to emerge on the long-term implications of COVID-19, including the development of neurological or mental disorders, a topic extensively discussed at the recent American Academy of Neurology virtual meeting this year. While almost half of physicians thought it's too soon to tell, a significant number of physicians (30%) believe COVID-19 is a neurotropic disease that can cross the blood-brain barrier and cause direct damage to the brain, rather than a respiratory illness that can have neurological side effects.
In addition, 30% reported the pandemic has helped patients with social anxiety disorder / social phobia, and depression / mood disorders (29%) that may arise from avoidance of social situations and other in-person encounters by allowing more time for self-reflection and personal development.
The Real Time Barometer is an observational study of the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak as reported by physicians with firsthand experience treating COVID-19 patients. Each week, thousands of physicians provide insights on topics regarding the global health crisis. To date, Sermo has conducted over 70,000 interviews with doctors in 31 countries, including the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, France, Brazil, Russia, China, Japan, and Australia. Full results are available at sermo.com.
“My patients are my top priority. Schedule an appointment today and let me help you with your ailment.”
Do you have difficulty breathing? Are you having trouble sleeping? Have you had problems swallowing? Dr. Eric Cohen is a board certified otolaryngologist dedicated to diagnosing and helping treat any abnormalities of the ear, nose, and throat. With a convenient Manhattan office location, his medical and surgical expertise is easily available for you.
Although his practice has developed a specialization in treating patients with sinusitis or issues with snoring, Dr. Cohen enjoys seeing adult patients with any condition relating to otolaryngology. He is committed to making sure you get an accurate diagnosis as efficiently as possible, even if it means referring you to another ENT specialist within his New York office.
Dr. Cohen strives to stay current with the latest technologies and treatment plans to ensure that he can offer the best possible solutions. He has been recognized as a leader in performing the pillar procedure and has completed more balloon sinuplasty surgeries than any other doctor in New York. He is also the Director of the Cure Snoring Center, where obstructive sleep apnea and snoring are targeted and treated.
So if you're experiencing difficulties with breathing, sleeping, or swallowing, or have any otolaryngology diseases, schedule an appointment with Dr. Eric Cohen. New York has plenty of otolaryngologist specialists, but you deserve to be treated by the best.
Dr. Geeta Kadayaprath has been asssociated with Surgical Oncology for the past 15 years with special interest in breast cancer. Gained valuable experience in treating a whole range of cancers. She is actively engaged in performing the entire range of surgeries recommended for breast cancer including modified radical mastectomies, breast conservation surgeries, onco-plastic breast conservation surgeries, mastectomies with immediate reconstruction, sentinel lymph node biopsies and excision of stereotactically localised lesions etc. She did a fellowship in the Breast Unit of the largest cancer centre in UK,Royal Marsden Hospital, London in 2003-2004.
She aims to make a difference to the lives of patients suffering from breast cancer by providing comprehensive services targeted at not only treatment but also rehabilitation. She is available for consultation at Max Super Speciality Hospital, Patparganj, where she runs the Breast Clinic.
Community Coalition Board Leadership | Research Priorities & Evaluation Criteria
The Health Currents episode titled, "It's Not Your Weight it's Your Waist"
The Health Currents episode titled, "It's Not Your Weight it's Your Waist" was originally aired on November 18, 2016 and featured Dr. Tabia Henry Akintobi, PhD, MPH, Director of the Prevention Research Center. Dr. Akintobi discussed the linkages among obesity and diabetes and how members of the community have implemented health initiatives within their own families. She also discussed some of the "risk for risk" which includes but not limited to access to healthy foods, fruits, vegetables, safe neighborhoods and exercise. This topic is directly related to the PRC's leaders in the Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health Initiatives Grant # 5NU58DP005945.
Fresh Food Gets Push in Low-income Areas The Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health Initiative (REACH HI), designed to increase access to healthy foods, physical activity and community-clinical linkages has launched 5 of 11 healthy corner stores in Neighborhood Planning Units V, X, Y, Z and T. Among those featured on November 15, 2016 was The Peach Pantry in the Sylvan Hills Community at 1085 Katherwood Drive SW Atlanta. Dr. Tabia Henry Akintobi, REACH HI Principal Investigator, Georgia State University collaborator and Investigator, Dr. Rodney Lyn and Maurice Burrell, Owner of the Peach Pantry were featured in the article on the front page of The Atlanta Journal Constitution (AJC) on November 27, 2016: MORE
Dr. Tabia Henry Akintobi begins her term as chair-elect of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Prevention Research Center Steering Committee, which is composed of 26 principal investigators of funded centers in October 2016. Her term as chair will begin in October 2017.
Morehouse School of Medicine's Dr. Tabia Akintobi explains MSM's health equity mission and speaks about the upcoming 3rd annual Community Engagement Day on CBS46's "Atlanta Plugged In" segment. WATCH NOW
MSM's PRC faculty and staff, along with community partners (Dr. Tabia Henry Akintobi, Nastassia Laster, Jennie Trotter, DeBran Jacobs, Tarita Johnson, Tandeca King Gordon and Assia Miller) published an article titled "The Health, Enlightenment, Awareness, and Living (HEAL) Intervention: Outcomes of an HIV and Hepatitis B and C Risk Reduction Intervention," which was recently accepted by the International Journal of Environmental Research for Public Health. MORE
Morehouse School of Medicine and Georgia State University's Healthy Corner Store Initiative works with South Atlanta business owners to bring fresh fruits and vegetables to urban community food marts. MORE
MSM's Jun Jun Xu of the NCPC and Dr. Latrice Rollins of the PRC spoke about environmental health and cardiovascular death in Atlanta, and MPH alumna Mikayla Charles presented a poster on community health programs at the CDC's GIS Day on November 14th. MORE
Dr. Akintobi Speaks with WCLK about MSM and Georgia State's Healthy Corner Store Initiative MSM-GSU Healthy Corner Store Initiative Featured in AJC
MSM PRC, Emory Co-Author Article Published By GAPHA MSM PRC Article Published in International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health
One of the most neglected parts of our bodies is our feet, while you do everything to take care of the other parts, you often forget about the health of your feet. You do not necessarily need to have a foot problem to visit the podiatrist, just as people visit their dentist twice a year, the same way going to the podiatrist helps in keeping your feet healthy. Your feet take more load than any part of the body, causing your ankle, knee and back to ache. So, if you go through this, then it is time that you go to the podiatrist. To help you out, here are some tips of how you need to take care of your foot.
Wash your feet every day with soapy water – Give them a couple of minutes’ wash! Be sure to dry them thoroughly, especially between the toes to prevent infection. In summer, it is essential that you dry well between the toes as moisture trapped between the toes are the perfect place for infection or bacteria to develop.
Cut your toenail – Be careful when you are cutting your toenail, don’t go down the edges or you risk to have ingrown toenail later. And you really don’t want that pain!
Moisturise and file your feet every day – Use a good quality foot cream to moisturise your feet, especially in summers. Do go for a foot cream that has tea tree oil as it has anti-fungal and moisturising properties. Remove hard skin and calluses with a pumice stone or foot file. Be careful though not to be too rough as it could damage the fresh skin underneath.
Do limit wearing high heels – If you are someone who loves to wear high heels, then this is for you. Always take a pair of good running shoes and change into them if you are going for a walk or going out for lunchtime.
Buy shoes in the afternoon – It is recommended to purchase shoes in the afternoon as throughout the day our feet swell, resulting in the shoes to pinch you by nightfall. It will fit comfortably then.
Change your socks daily – We lose up to ¾ to 1 cup of sweat a day and mostly it is through our feet! Do wear socks in your sports shoes as the bacteria living on your sweat will create stinky shoes. So better change your socks every day!
Rotate your footwear – You do not need to have a separate wardrobe for your shoes, but yes, you do need to change it occasionally. Use those pairs on alternate days and leave the pair that you are not wearing out so that they can dry out.
Your feet should be comfy – Do not ignore any foot pain or discomfort regularly as it could result in a chronic long term problem.
If you have any foot problem or concerns, get in touch with My Podiatrist in Melbourne, Victoria. They provide optimal care for all age groups and have the best care plan.
Categories: Skin Care Tips / No Responses / by Harry Camaro 2019-08-02
Post Author: Harry Camaro
Related Posts '
14 OCT
Top 4 Essential Tips To Take Care Of Your Skin
Like every year, autumn is gradually replacing summer. The days are getting shorter, and the cold is slowly setting in. You'll have to...
Health and Beauty, Skin Care Tips Read More
15 SEP
Tips to Care for Your Sunburn at Home
All you want is fresh and beautiful skin to show off on the beach during your summer vacations. However nice and warm sunshine can be, you...
Health and Beauty, Skin Care Tips Read More
14 JUL
Why Is Vitamin C Essential for the Skin?
The importance of vitamin C in the diet is not surprising. This is why in the past, sailors who did not eat fresh fruits and vegetables...
Skin Care Tips Read More
14 JUN
How To Choose The Right Eyelash Serum?
Beautiful, long, healthy eyelashes? Who wouldn't wish for that? With eyelash serums, beautiful, lush, long lashes are within reach. But...
Skin Care Tips Read More
05 JUN
How To Recover From Dry Skin After Winter?
Winter can be a difficult time for our skin. Rain, cold weather, and heaters can irritate our skin, as can substances we apply or spray on...
Skin Care Tips Read More
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name*
Email*
Website
Comment
Follow us
My health beauty tips
Partners
[wp-openlink]
Partners:
Darwin Foot Clinic
Categories
Ayurveda
Belly Button
Body Contouring
Cosmetic Dentistry
Cosmetic Surgery
Cupping Therapy
diet
Ear cleaning
Ears
Essential Oil
Eye Health
Eye Make Up
Eyebrow Grooming
Fashion
Foot Care
gut health
Hair Care
Health and Beauty
Life Coach
Makeup
Massage
Men's Fashion
Mental Health
Mouth Joint Pain
Moxibustion
Nail Care
Ozone Therapy
perfume
Reflexology
Skin Care Tips
Sleep
Weight Loss
Women's Fashion
Recent Posts
Budget-Friendly Meat Recipes to Add to Your Healthy Diet
Rock Crystal: Properties, Benefits, and Uses in Crystal Therapy
Inspirational Words of Wisdom About Beauty That Will Boost Your Self-Esteem
3 Simple & Elegant Nail Art Ideas For Summer
Relieve from Gastritis Naturally
Recent Comments
Tips to Care for Your Sunburn at Home – My health beauty tips on 8 Easy Steps to a Perfect Eyeshadow Makeup
Top 4 Things To Know About Gender Dysphoria – Health talks on 8 Easy Steps to a Perfect Eyeshadow Makeup
DENVER-In the first study of its kind in children, tacrolimus, used to fight organ rejection, has been found to combat atopic dermatitis in children, according to research published recently in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology.
"We've had patients that after four days of treatment were already looking significantly better," said Mark Boguniewicz, M.D., who treats children with atopic dermatitis at National Jewish Medical and Research Center and is the study's lead author.
Although ointments with high concentrations of corticosteroids may get similar results, they can have unacceptable side effects. "There would be concern about the effects to the skin and body, especially with more potent preparations," he said.
"Unlike corticosteroids, tacrolimus doesn't cause thinning of the skin, which can be permanent," Dr. Boguniewicz said. "Some people have tissue paper thin skin and bruise easily from chronic corticosteroid use. The face is a special concern because it's most susceptible to steroid side effects."
Tacrolimus, a drug that can suppress the immune system when given intravenously, was used as a topical skin treatment in this clinical trial involving 180 children, ages 7-16 at 18 centers throughout the United States. The children had moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, which affected 5-30 percent of the body's skin.
Children were supplied with one of three different concentrations of tacrolimus ointment. Improvement or clearing of the condition ranged from 67-70 percent of the children using the tacrolimus ointment, compared to 38 percent that had ointment with no medication.
In topical form the medication appears safe, according to the study, except for a minor burning sensation of the skin that disappears after about four days. "What we see is that the medication works so quickly and heals the skin that it isn't further absorbed," Dr. Boguniewicz said. "That's why there aren't systemic side effects."
The most common chronic skin disease of young children, atopic dermatitis affects about 10 percent of children in the United States. But it affects people of all ages. "It impacts significantly on their quality of life," he said. "It's a cause of school absenteeism and occupational disabilities, hampers social interaction and disrupts sleep."
Atopic dermatitis, characterized by chronic skin inflammation, skin redness, areas of hard, rough skin and severe itching, is complicated by staph bacteria infections on the skin.
A year-long study of tacrolimus is underway at National Jewish. Tacrolimus should be available as a treatment for atopic dermatitis in about one year.
www.nationaljewish.org/pa
Contact: Jordan Gruener (303) 398-1002
Related Corticosteroids Articles from Brightsurf:
In a tremendous demonstration of global collaboration, clinician-scientists have pooled data from 121 hospitals in eight countries to find that inexpensive, widely available steroids improve the odds that very sick COVID-19 patients will survive the illness.
The results of seven randomized clinical trials with 1,703 critically ill patients with COVID-19 were combined to estimate the association between administration of corticosteroids compared with usual care or placebo and the risk of death after 28 days.
Researchers, led by Samuel Gentle, MD, assistant professor of pediatrics in the University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Medicine, report that antenatal treatment with both magnesium sulfate and corticosteroids together yields an increased benefit for children born at 22 to 26 weeks of gestation, compared to no antenatal treatment or with either therapy alone.
In search of an option for the drug known for causing several side effects, scientists describe the anti-inflammatory properties of protein galectin-1 in tests with rats involving ischemia-reperfusion scenarios.
A study published in the February journal CHEST® suggests long-term inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in patients with COPD may increase risk of bone fractures in both men and women.
A corticosteroid can improve the healing of damaged tendons, but it must be given at the right time, according to a new study from Linköping University in Sweden.
CABG Readmissions Data Added to CA Outcome Reports
, April 24, 2012 CABG Mortality
Overall, the report shows that mortality rates within 30 days of the operation dropped from 2.8% in 1998-1999, to 2.24 in 2008 to 1.9% in 2009, when 13,260 isolated procedures were performed. That's a significant decline from the 27,000 CABG procedures in 1998, the first year this state CABG report was published. CABG procedures are going down because of compelling research findings that in many cases, prescription drug management provides better long-term outcomes than major invasive surgery.
Because of the steady decline in CABG procedures in the last decade, those patients who do undergo the operation tend to have more co-morbidities, and so the mortality rate would be expected to hold steady or even increase. But the fact that it declined anyway indicates surgeons and hospital teams may be getting even better, Parker says.
"These patients (who undergo CABG surgery these days) are sicker," said Joe Parker, manager of the Healthcare Outcomes Center for OSHPD, the nation's largest state hospital database, which prepares an annual CABG report. 1
Ketamine Therapy is Valuable in the Treatment of CRPS | quityourjobandliveonaboat
Ketamine Therapy is Valuable in the Treatment of CRPS
Kim had some experiences with ketamine. We explored several options available but some are not permitted in the US and few, if any are covered by insurance.
The CRPS Institute
A new development has found a way for patients suffering from the condition known as Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS) to relieve their pain and stress. Ketamine infusions are being suggested as a safe and effective option for treating this condition. When taken in small doses, it is considered a more effective choice than using large doses of narcotics.
Ketamine has long been known to be able to inhibit the activity of the N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. It is thought that the NMDA receptors in CRPS patients are hypersensitive or overactive and are significant source of the chronic pain associated with CRPS.
The NMDA receptor is a neurotransmitter that is responsible for receiving and transmitting pain signals in the spinal cord and brain. These neurotransmitters are located in the synapses throughout the central nervous system. When electrical stimulation, such as pain signals, are interpreted by the brain a chemical known…
