High avidity autoreactive T cells with a low signalling capacity through the T-cell receptor: central to rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis? | Arthritis Research & Therapy | Full Text
Malcolm Turner1 &
Andrew P Cope2
Arthritis Research & Therapy volume 10, Article number: 210 (2008) Cite this article
In 1996, Thomas and Lipsky [1] proposed a model for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis in which endogenous self-antigens were presented by activated peripheral dendritic cells (DCs) to autoreactive T cells that had escaped thymic selection. Synovial DCs were shown to be activated, probably as a consequence of proinflammatory signals derived from the RA joint environment, including cytokines and T-cell derived CD40 ligand [1, 2]. The model stemmed from observations that autologous peripheral blood T cells proliferated strongly in vitro in response to RA synovial DCs presenting endogenous antigenic peptide (known as the autologous mixed lymphocyte response). At that time it was unclear how T cells with the capacity to respond strongly to self-antigen might escape thymic deletion and enter the peripheral repertoire. However, the subsequent discovery by Sakaguchi and colleagues [3] of a spontaneous mouse mutant, known as 'SKG', which developed inflammatory arthritis resembling RA, has provided a possible mechanism.
Thymic selection and the predisposition to autoimmunity
Central (or thymic) tolerance defects are important and probably essential contributors to spontaneous autoimmune disease [4]. T cells are selected in the thymus according to their affinity for self-MHC (major histocompatibility complex) bearing endogenous self-antigens displayed by the thymic cortical epithelial cells. Negative selection then deletes those T cells that are reactive to self-antigen above a threshold of affinity for self-antigen/MHC complexes expressed and presented by medullary antigen-presenting cells (APCs), notably medullary epithelial cells and medullary DCs [5].
In the medulla, medullary epithelial cells express the highest levels of autoimmune regulator (AIRE), a transcription factor that controls the expression of peripheral tissue antigens. In the absence of AIRE, glandular (salivary and lacrimal glands, liver, pancreas and thyroid) organ-specific autoimmunity develops [6]. Interestingly, neither mice nor humans with AIRE mutations develop autoimmune arthritis, possibly because AIRE does not directly regulate the expression of joint-specific self-proteins in the thymus.
Medullary DCs have also been shown to delete self-reactive T cells in the thymus in experimental settings [7], but abnormalities in these cells have not yet been implicated in any spontaneous autoimmune model. Although the spectrum of self-antigen presentation by medullary DCs is unknown, they can capture antigen from peripheral tissues – presumably including synovial joints – and delete self-antigen-specific thymocytes in the medulla.
Although an affinity threshold applies for central deletion of self-reactive T cells, this threshold varies according to the susceptibility of thymocytes to death and the capacity of the T-cell receptor (TCR) and downstream pathways to transmit an activation signal. Moreover, the efficiency of self-antigen presentation depends on the ability of thymic APCs to process and present self-antigen, and the density of MHC and co-stimulatory molecules on the APC surface.
A number of well established spontaneous animal models of autoimmunity are characterized by defects in the normal process of either positive or negative selection, thus permitting the entry of autoreactive T cells into the peripheral repertoire. In the periphery, subsequent genetic or environmental proinflammatory events more readily trigger the activation of these T cells, and thus the development of autoimmune disease [8]. Does this scenario fit the SKG RA model or human RA itself?
TCR signalling is dramatically attenuated in the SKG mouse model of spontaneous arthritis. This is due to a mutation in the SH2 domain of the gene encoding ζ-associated protein of 70 kDa (ZAP-70), a TCR proximal protein tyrosine kinase that is essential for T-cell activation after the TCR engages antigen [3]. Experiments using TCR transgenic mice show that high-affinity self-reactive T cells escape negative selection in these mice. At the same time, defective TCR signalling also attenuates positive selection, reducing the peripheral T-cell pool compared with wild-type mice (Figure 1). The abnormal peripheral T-cell repertoire, comprising a higher proportion of self-reactive T cells than in wild-type mice, is demonstrable ex vivo, because peripheral SKG T cells incubated with autologous APC proliferate vigourously in spite of the ZAP-70 mutation, and secrete IL-17 in the autologous mixed lymphocyte response [9]. SKG mice develop spontaneous rheumatoid factor (RF)-positive inflammatory arthritis, resembling RA in patients, when housed in a conventional animal facility where environmental pathogen exposure might occur at low levels. Conversely, in a microbiologically clean facility, mice do not develop joint disease, although RF and other autoantibodies are still detectable [3, 9].
Pathogenesis of inflammatory arthritis. (a) The SKG model and (b) a model for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) suggested by the skg mouse. As a result of altered thymic selection, the peripheral T-cell repertoire responds to self-antigen with higher affinity compared with the healthy situation, facilitating self-specific activation and population of the periphery with post-activated memory T cells. These T cells produce proinflammatory cytokines and provide efficient help for autoantibody production, but they have limited capacity for infection control. Antigen-presenting dendritic cells (DCs) are activated directly by fungal β-glucans (panel a) or indirectly through T cells or proinflammatory cytokines (panels a and b). ACPA, antibodies to citrullinated protein; CTL, cytotoxic T lymphocyte; EBV, Epstein-Barr virus; IFN, interferon; IL, interleukin; RF, rheumatoid factor; TCR, T-cell receptor; TNF, tumour necrosis factor; WT, wild-type.
In an elegant follow-up study, Sakaguchi and coworkers [9] showed that subclinical fungal infection is predominantly responsible for the inflammatory signals that drive spontaneous joint disease in SKG mice. β-Glucan molecules derived from the fungal cell wall signal through the dectin-1 cell surface C-type lectin receptor on the cell surface of antigen-presenting DCs. Reis e Sousa and colleagues [10] demonstrated that signalling of murine DCs though the dectin-1 receptor promotes the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, tumour necrosis factor (TNF) and IL-23, but little IL-12. In SKG mice, such DCs activated by dectin-1 promote the in vitro and in vivo differentiation of CD4+ T-effector cells secreting IL-17 [9]. Lymphopenia may be an important contributor to the self-reactive response in this case because it promotes homeostatic proliferation of effector T cells, similar to that demonstrated in other autoimmune models [11, 12].
CD4+ SKG T cells in the periphery exhibit a phenotype characteristic of antigen-experienced, post-activated cells, as are typically observed in autoimmune arthritis. There are increased proportions of CD44hi, CD25+, CD69+, OX40+ and CD45RBdim cells, as compared with the proportions in wild-type BALB/c littermates [3]. When adoptively transferred to lymphopenic hosts, SKG T cells proliferate just as efficiently as wild-type T cells [9]. Although both SKG and wild-type T-cell subsets produce similar proportions of T-helper-17 and T-helper-1 effectors under these conditions, SKG T cells are more strongly self-reactive than wild-type T cells [9].
Another murine model of spontaneous inflammatory arthritis that fits this paradigm was reported very recently. In the F1 progeny of BALB/c mice containing both haemagglutin antigen (HA)-specific TCR-transgenic CD4+ T cells and HA driven by a MHC class II-specific promoter (known as TS1×HACII mice) [13], high-affinity HA-specific T cells are negatively selected in the thymus, but low-affinity HA-specific T cells bearing low levels of cell surface TCR expand in the periphery over time. Similar to SKG T cells, these CD4+ T cells exhibit a post-activated memory phenotype, with low proliferative capacity but high capacity for cytokine production in response to antigen stimulation ex vivo. The mice develop a T-cell-dependent and B-cell-independent peripheral arthritis, pneumonitis and cardiac inflammation from around 6 weeks of age, with a gradual progression in severity. The disease phenotype is similar to other spontaneous arthritis models (but unlike autoimmune models in which AIRE is deficient), which lack endocrine or glandular multi-organ inflammatory pathology.
It is striking that autoantigen-experienced memory CD4+ cells with low TCR signalling capacity are particularly associated with autoimmune arthritis. However, the relative joint specificity arising from immunity toward an antigen whose expression is not joint restricted is puzzling. We speculate that the capacity of such T cells to secrete relevant cytokines (including IFN-γ, IL-17 and TNF [13]), in concert with tissue-specific homing properties, might underlie the induction of arthritis. The extent to which joint stromal cells (including synovial fibroblasts) are exquisitely sensitive to cytokine stimulation, as compared with stromal cells from other tissues, remains a matter of debate.
In RA, antigen-experienced synovial T cells, with a similar CD45RBdim phenotype to SKG T cells, have an acquired TCR signalling deficiency. We previously showed that synovial T cells proliferated poorly and secreted low levels of IL-2 in vitro [14]. The reduced T-cell proliferation seen in RA is also associated with reduced TCR signal intensity, reduced calcium signalling and reduced expression of TCR-ζ. It has been shown that TCR-ζ chains are either not expressed or lack phosphorylation in RA synovial fluid T cells. TCR-ζ chain expression levels correlated with RA T-cell responsiveness [15]. We previously defined populations of TCR-ζdim T cells in peripheral blood with characteristics of prior antigen experience, based on cell surface phenotype, cytokine expression and migratory competence [16]. In chronic inflammatory diseases (for example, RA and systemic lupus erythe-matosus) it has been proposed that an inflammatory milieu contributes to reduction in TCR-ζ expression in antigen-experienced T cells. Inflammatory factors that could contribute to this process in predisposed individuals include nutrient depletion, increased expression of reactive oxygen inter-mediates such as H2O2, and induction of stress pathways [17]. Genetic, acquired and age-related factors could thus contribute to a state of chronic TCR signalling deficiency in RA.
In contrast, IFN-γ and IL-17 production by RA T cells appears to be spared [16, 18, 19]. In addition, synovial T cells potently induce B cells to secrete autoantibodies [14] and activate synovial macrophages, DCs and resident stromal cells. These cells, in turn, express inflammatory cytokines and chemokines through cell contact-dependent mechanisms [20]. Thus, in spite of their TCR signalling deficiencies, synovial T cells can promote chronic inflammation within the synovial lesion, stimulating B cells, and promoting macrophage and DC activation and robust secretion of cytokines. Beyond these acquired signalling defects, is there any evidence that low TCR signalling capacity might precede RA?
Genetic provocation of autoreactive T cells with low TCR signalling capacity
The primary genetic defect in the SKG autoimmune arthritic mouse model is a point mutation in the TCR proximal protein tyrosine kinase ZAP-70. This mutation does not alter ZAP-70 expression, but nevertheless it dramatically reduces the affinity of the carboxyl-terminal SH2 domain of ZAP-70 in binding phosphorylated tyrosine residues in the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) modules of the TCR-ζ chain [3]. This mutation can therefore entirely account for the thymic selection shift and the generation of a repertoire of autoreactive T cells with a high avidity for self-antigen/MHC complexes in SKG mice. However, the question arises as to whether there are similar (or functionally related) mutations in RA.
To date, no allelic variants of the human ZAP70 gene have been described in association with RA or in association with any other known immune-mediated inflammatory disease. In contrast, attention has recently focused on elucidating the function of the PTPN22 gene that encodes a protein tyrosine phosphatase called LYP (lymphocyte tyrosine phosphatase) [21]. The R620W variant of this gene is, somewhat unexpectedly, a gain-of-function mutant that reduces TCR signalling capacity. Functional data from healthy donors homozygous or heterozygous for the R620W mutation confirm that peripheral blood T cells are hyporesponsive to antigen receptor stimulation. This polymorphism would thus be predicted to impair positive and negative selection of autoreactive T cells [22, 23]. Within the context of SKG and RA T cells, it is interesting that carriage of the variant allele was also associated with reduced IL-10 production and an increase in the numbers of CD4+ memory T cells, potentially associated with increased self-reactivity. Expression of TNF-α and IFN-γ was unaffected [23]. As a result of altered thymic selection, this phenomenon might arise through increased intrinsic responsiveness and augmented generation of effector T cells that recognize endogenous self-peptides presented by APCs in vivo. A complementary possibility is that gain-of-function PTPN22 mutants suppress TCR signalling in natural regulatory T cells and thus impair peripheral tolerance. RA has also been associated with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the MHC class II transactivator gene (MHC2TA). These SNPs are predicted to reduce the efficiency of self-antigen presentation by APCs in the thymus and periphery, with effects on the T-cell repertoire similar to those associated with PTPN22 R620W [24]. These alterations in the repertoire of healthy individuals with PTPN22 R620W suggest that a low TCR signalling capacity may predispose otherwise healthy individuals to RA, just as SKG mice are predisposed to (but do not develop) arthritis in the absence of infection.
Presentation of self-antigen to autoreactive T cells promoting rheumatoid arthritis depends on activation of dendritic cells
Activated DCs play several roles in autoimmune arthritis. They serve as APCs for T-cell priming, as accessory cells in the generation of primary antibody responses, and as producers of proinflammatory cytokines (alongside synoviocytes and macrophages) [25–27]. DCs infiltrate inflamed tissue, take up and process antigen locally, and then activate MHC-restricted naïve T cells in draining lymph nodes [1, 27–30]. In turn, autoreactive primed T cells co-stimulate DC activation particularly through CD40 ligand, reinforcing the autoimmune response that eventually leads to excessive autoantibody production and chronic inflammation associated with RA [2]. DCs are activated by the uptake of immunogenic antigen, pathogen and damage recognition ligands, a role played – at least in part – by fungal β-glucan signalling through dectin-1 in SKG mice [31–33]. Proinflammatory cytokines also activate DCs, although evidence is emerging that the gene activation programme is in this instance different from that activated by pathogen or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) [34]. Are DCs activated in RA, how does this come about, and how do high-avidity autoreactive T cells respond?
SKG, TS1×HACII mice and RA DCs and macrophages share a capacity for 'hyper-activation'. This activation is enhanced by strong positive feedback from post-activated memory T cells, by immune complex ligation of Fc receptors and by proinflammatory cytokines [9, 13]. DCs and macrophages from the synovial fluid of RA patients exhibit an unusual and persistent drive for LPS-induced nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation ex vivo [35, 36], apparently in the face of strong signals for exhaustion and counter-regulation that would normally halt activation [37, 38]. This hyper-activation contrasts with monocytes and DCs isolated from patients with type 1 diabetes, which we have shown shut down NF-κB in response to LPS [39]. Although it has only been technically feasible to examine peripheral blood DCs from patients with diabetes, when we compared peripheral blood DCs from RA patients we did not find a similar exhausted response to LPS in RA [39]. In a murine model, a Toll-like receptor (TLR)4-mediated signalling pathway blocked TLR ligand responsiveness and promoted an exhausted phenotype. In the absence of TLR4 signalling, DCs exposed to proinflammatory cytokines in vivo could be further activated ex vivo by other TLR ligands [34]. Although the mechanism distinguishing the responsiveness of RA and diabetes DCs to LPS is not yet clear, the implication is that DCs would present antigen more efficiently in the face of infection or other proinflammatory events in RA, whereas they would be less effective in response to the same stimuli in diabetes. DC hyperactivity appears to be characteristic of the pathogenesis of autoimmune arthritis in both RA and the described murine models.
MHC-peptide interactions with T cells in RA
Variation in the HLA-DRB1 gene of the MHC is more strongly associated with RA than variation in any other locus. The variation maps to the third hypervariable region of the DRβ-chain and is found in many different human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-DR molecules linked to RA [40]. The locus encodes a conserved susceptibility sequence – known as the 'shared epitope' – that is positively charged and forms the fourth anchoring pocket (P4) in the HLA-DR peptide binding groove [41]. Antibodies to citrullinated proteins (ACPAs) and RF are more likely in RA patients with the shared epitope and who smoke [42–44]. Thus, it has been proposed, in view of evidence that smoking promotes citrullination of self-proteins in the lung, that smoking promotes ACPAs in those with at-risk HLA genotypes [43]. We found that peripheral blood T cells from patients with RA susceptibility HLA-DR alleles and ACPAs proliferated poorly in response to specific shared epitope-associated citrullinated peptides, consistent with low signal capacity through the TCR. However, the T cells strongly induced proinflammatory cytokine secretion in response to these peptides as well as the native form of these epitopes. Surprisingly, these responses occurred at very low concentrations of peptide, suggestive of high-affinity anti-self-responses (Capini C and coworkers, unpublished data). We therefore propose that subsets of self-reactive T cells that interact with high-avidity with peptide-MHC may compensate for attenuated TCR signalling, which is consistent with our ex vivo observations that T cells from RA patients respond with high avidity to citrullinated and noncitrullinated self-antigens. Expression of CD70 by antigen-experienced T cells may be at least one mechanism by which antigen-specific responses may be augmented [45]. This ongoing autoreactivity would result in the contraction of the T-cell repertoire and highly selective expansion of self-reactive T-cell clones.
Chronic inflammation and the tumour necrosis factor/nuclear factor-κB drive in rheumatoid arthritis
Based on human and animal data, what are the key factors that drive chronic inflammation in RA? Experiments in different animal arthritic models, including TNF transgenic mice, and IL-1 receptor antagonist knockout and p50 knockout mice, indicate that proinflammatory stimuli driving the expression of TNF, IL-1, or NF-κB p50 are sufficient to drive the development of autoimmune polyarthritis in susceptible strains [46–49]. NF-κB stimulates the transcription of genes important for cellular responses to stress, injury and inflammation [50], and thus NF-κB signalling simultaneously sustains synovial inflammation and promotes DC and monocyte activation and differentiation, resulting in priming of autoreactive lymphocytes. We and others have provided additional evidence that TNF and IL-1 directly enhance B-cell and T-cell autoreactivity through effects on regulatory T cells [51–53]. Nicotine, lactation, mineral oil exposure and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) – environmental factors associated with RA -all promote NF-κB activity, associated with TNF and IL-1 secretion by myeloid and stromal cells, and DC and B-cell activation [54–57].
On the other hand, combinations of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs and biologic therapies that suppress the activity of NF-κB can induce RA remission [58, 59]. Thus, both human and murine evidence indicates that NF-κB activation is required to drive RA, and that factors that suppress this activity are disease suppressive [48, 60, 61]. TNF clearly plays a critical role in RA perpetuation, activating and being activated by NF-κB in a positive feedback loop.
Genetic and environmental provocation of strong activation of innate immunity and antigen presentation
There are links between RA and NF-κB driven genes of the innate immune response involved in pathogen recognition, proinflammatory cytokine production and modulation of the strength of cellular signalling in response to activation signals. RA-associated SNPs have been detected in complement-5-TRAF1, STAT 4 and in DCIR, another lectin receptor that is expressed on the surface of DCs [62–65]. Identification of these SNPs has potential implications for the way in which we assess the impact of environmental RA risk factors – such as infection and tobacco smoke – in individuals genetically predisposed to RA. Apart from direct cellular effects, tissue damage caused by tobacco smoke or infection also provoke the release of endogenous pathogen recognition receptor ligands derived from host cellular debris (also known as damage-associated molecular patterns or DAMPs). These have been shown to function as auto-adjuvants, which both perpetuate and reinforce the inflammatory response and stimulate the APC function of DCs.
The role of viral pathogens in driving nuclear factor-κB
EBV, which infects about 98% of the world's population, has the strongest viral association with RA [66, 67]. Almost all the arthritogenic viruses, including EBV, rubella, parvovirus B19, hepatitis B and C, HIV, HTLV1 and Ross River Fever, activate NF-κB in order to replicate, suggesting the possibility that arthritis develops as a side-effect of NF-κB activation. These viruses manipulate the NF-κB pathway to enhance their replication and host cell survival, while blocking apoptosis and immune recognition [68]. The EBV latent membrane protein-1 activates NF-κB through interaction with TNF receptor 1 and the TNF receptor 1-associated death domain. Activation bypasses the cytoplasmic TNF signalling pathway [68]. NF-κB activation by EBV allows it to evade the normal host responses and leads to a persistent low-grade B-cell infection. EBV DNA has been detected in synovial tissue from RA patients, using polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical staining [69]. EBV latent membrane protein-1 has also been demonstrated in RA synoviocytes and lymphocytes. The EBV Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen (EBNA)-1 protein also undergoes citrullination. Thus, EBV can induce antibodies to citrullinated peptides [70, 71]. The EBV capsid protein gp110 also contains the shared epitope sequence [72]. The evidence suggests there is a deficiency in viral control coincident with RA, which is consistent with a host immunodeficient state. In RA patients, there are increased numbers of EBV-infected B lymphocytes, higher specific antibody titres, and impaired EBV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity, as compared with otherwise healthy EBV-infected individuals [73, 74].
We propose that simultaneous NF-κB stimulation by viral infection and RA results in a 'mutually permissive' state, with viral infection promoting RA disease, and vice versa, through NF-κB. The key question is whether patients at risk for RA are also at greater risk for immune dysregulation during EBV infection. For us, the evidence is in favour. Hijacking of B lymphocyte cellular machinery by EBV promotes chronic dys-regulated immune activation with increased NF-κB activity, and the propensity both for B-cell autoantibody secretion and lymphoma development [69]. Because EBV infection activates the NF-κB pathway in B lymphocytes, they are prone to apoptotic cell death in response to NF-κB inhibition during RA treatment [75]. Furthermore, in those predisposed to RA, EBV infection may persist through a state of relative immunodeficiency imposed by attenuated TCR signals, reducing the efficacy of EBV-specific CTLs. Functional CTLs are essential for effective control of EBV-associated lympho-proliferative disease in post-transplant settings [76]. This immune dysregulation associated with failure of normal T-cell-mediated infection control in RA might explain how RA inflammatory disease can appear T-cell independent, as indicated by poor clinical responses to T-cell-depleting therapies. On the other hand, strategies such as CTLA4-Ig (CTL antigen 4-immunoglobulin), which specifically target a T-cell-dependent pathway, are effective because they probably confer desirable immuno-regulation on the multiple sites of T-cell action.
Synthesis: similarity and differences in pathogenesis of arthritis in SKG mice and RA
Pathogenic T cells from both SKG and TS1×HACII mice and RA patients appear to share the following characteristics: a reduced capacity for TCR signalling; increased proportions of T cells with a post-activated differentiated memory phenotype; a reduced capacity for proliferation and IL-2 production, despite their capacity for IL-17 and IFN-γ secretion; enhanced B-cell help and a strong capacity for autoantibody production; and an enhanced response to self-antigens. Figure 1 depicts models of disease pathogenesis in SKG mice and RA patients, highlighting their similarities and some differences.
Clearly, in the SKG model it is easier to ascertain that low TCR signalling capacity underlies arthritis development. In RA, although we have argued that secondary TCR signalling deficiencies provide a positive feedback loop for inflammation, it will be of interest to determine whether similar TCR signalling deficiencies precede inflammatory disease, for instance whether they are evident in otherwise healthy individuals who are ACPA positive and at risk for RA. Further evidence could be obtained from patients achieving drug-free remission from chronic inflammation, such as after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Although we have argued that infection plays a role in SKG mice and RA patients, the nature of this role appears to be different in each setting, with more direct inflammatory signalling of DCs in SKG mice. Indeed, we believe that if infectious or TLR-mediated damage signals are involved in driving DC and macrophage activation in RA, as appears to be the case in SKG mice, then the usual counter-regulatory response to TLR activation must be attenuated. The development of arthritis in TS1×HACII mice even in a microbiologically clean facility [13] indicates that infectious signals are not required to drive arthritis within the context of autoantigenic T cells with reduced TCR signalling capacity. We propose that arthritis in this model develops independent of a pathogen drive because of the very high precursor frequency of autoantigen-specific T cells. In contrast, the reduced frequency of T cells specific for arthrito-genic autoantigen among the polyclonal T-cell repertoire in the SKG mice, or indeed in RA, is less likely to provide sufficient feedback to DCs to drive spontaneous inflammation.
In RA, we propose that infection is intimately associated with the HLA susceptibility locus. Shared epitope alleles are common in the Caucasian population but they are strongly associated with RA, along with the development of both RF and ACPAs, and with severe erosive clinical disease. Why does shared epitope-associated RA persist at a frequency of around 1% in the population? We propose that the HLA susceptibility illuminates a bigger picture than the unfortunate side effect of joint autoimmunity. The polymorphic HLA genes evolved as a result of selection pressure by infection, and the shared epitope alleles thus identify individuals with particular immunity to infection. Our hypothesis is that EBV infection sets up a particularly 'cosy' symbiotic relationship with hosts bearing HLA susceptibility alleles and primary TCR signalling deficiency. As a result of EBV infection, persistent presentation of viral antigens could impose pressure on the T-cell repertoire, contributing with self-antigen presentation to drive expansion of an activated memory population, which further acquires inflammation-associated TCR signalling defects.
This phenomenon may underlie the observed thymic and bone marrow stem cell deficiency, excessive production of CD28null and other post-activated, terminally differentiated memory T cell phenotypes, hyper-activated DCs and B cells, and excess numbers of EBV-associated lymphomas and other tumours in RA patients [77]. Indeed, when synovial fluid T cells from RA patients were analyzed using EBV MHC class I tetramers, they were found to contain a high proportion of virus-specific T cells with an activated phenotype [78]. As might have been predicted, it was the differentiated CD8+ CD28null T-cell population that could be isolated from RA patients after stimulation with immunodominant lytic peptide EBV epitopes [79]. It is likely that EBV is not the only infection to result in a mutually permissive state of auto-reactivity in RA. Other examples include the increased probability of RF production in patients with chronic HCV or with ageing, because the T-cell repertoire is progressively populated with a higher proportion of post-activated memory T cells, creating a positive feedback loop as TCR signalling capacity decreases.
Although the SKG mouse model is by no means identical to human RA, it does mirror aspects of pathogenesis relating to gene-environment interactions that are involved in promoting autoimmune arthritis. This forces us to confront the paradox of how T cells with low TCR signalling capacity nevertheless interact with APCs and thus play initiating and continuing roles in the generation of autoimmune inflammation in RA patients. An improved understanding of the primary pathogenetic mechanisms of T cells in RA will probably have important implications for the design of effective and safe immunotherapies.
= antibody to citrullinated proteins
= autoimmune regulator
= haemagglutin antigen
MacDonald KPA, Nishioka N, Lipsky PE, Thomas R: Functional CD40-ligand is expressed by T cells in rheumatoid arthritis. J Clin Invest. 1997, 100: 2404-2414. 10.1172/JCI119781.
Mathis D, Benoist C: A decade of AIRE. Nat Rev Immunol. 2007, 7: 645-650. 10.1038/nri2136.
Bonasio R, Scimone ML, Schaerli P, Grabie N, Lichtman AH, von Andrian UH: Clonal deletion of thymocytes by circulating dendritic cells homing to the thymus. Nat Immunol. 2006, 7: 1092-1100. 10.1038/ni1385.
Koh WP, Chan E, Scott K, McCaughan G, France M, Fazekas de St Groth B: TCR-mediated involvement of CD4+ transgenic T cells in spontaneous inflammatory bowel disease in lymphopenic mice. J Immunol. 1999, 162: 7208-7216.
Cozzo C, Larkin J, Caton AJ: Self-peptides drive the peripheral expansion of CD4+ CD25+ regulatory T cells. J Immunol. 2003, 171: 5678-5682.
Dayer JM, Burger D: Cytokines and direct cell contact in synovitis: relevance to therapeutic intervention. Arthritis Res. 1999, 1: 17-20. 10.1186/ar5.
Mollah ZUA, Pai S, Moore C, O'Sullivan BJ, Harrison MJ, Peng J, Phillips K, Prins JB, Cardinal J, Thomas R: Abnormal NF-kappa B function characterizes human type 1 diabetes dendritic cells and monocytes. J Immunol. 2008, 180: 3166-3175.
O'Sullivan B, Thompson AG, Thomas R: NF-kappa B as a therapeutic target in autoimmune disease. Curr Opin Ther Targets. 2007, 11: 111-122. 10.1517/14728222.11.2.111.
O'Sullivan B, Thomas HE, Pai S, Santamaria P, Iwakura Y, Steptoe RJ, Kay TW, Thomas R: IL-1 breaks tolerance through expansion of CD25+ effector T cells. J Immunol. 2006, 176: 7278-7287.
Izumi KM, Kieff ED: The Epstein-Barr virus oncogene product latent membrane protein 1 engages the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated death domain protein to mediate B lymphocyte growth transformation and activate NF-kappaB. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1997, 94: 12592-12597. 10.1073/pnas.94.23.12592.
Pai S, O'Sullivan B, Abdul-Jabbar I, Peng J, Connoly G, Khanna R, Thomas R: Nasopharyngeal carcinoma-associated Epstein-Barr virus-encoded oncogene latent membrane protein 1 potentiates regulatory T-cell function. Immunol Cell Biol. 2007, 85: 370-377. 10.1038/sj.icb.7100046.
Anzilotti C, Riente L, Pratesi F, Chimenti D, Delle Sedie A, Bombardieri S, Migliorini P: IgG, IgA, IgM antibodies to a viral citrullinated peptide in patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis, chronic arthritides and connective tissue disorders. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2007, 46: 1579-1582. 10.1093/rheumatology/kem193.
Roudier J, Petersen J, Rhodes GH, Luka J, Carson DA: Susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis maps to a T-cell epitope shared by the HLA-Dw4 DR b-1 chain and the Ebstein-Barr virus glycoprotein gp110. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1989, 86: 5104-5108. 10.1073/pnas.86.13.5104.
Sawada S, Takei M: Epstein-Barr virus etiology in rheumatoid synovitis. Autoimmun Rev. 2005, 4: 106-110. 10.1016/j.autrev.2004.08.034.
Gaston JS, Rickinson AB, Yao QY, Epstein MA: The abnormal cytotoxic T cell response to Epstein-Barr virus in rheumatoid arthritis is correlated with disease activity and occurs in other arthropathies. Ann Rheum Dis. 1986, 45: 932-936.
Khanna R, Bell S, Sherritt M, Galbraith A, Burrows SR, Rafter L, Clarke B, Slaughter R, Falk MC, Douglass J, Williams T, Elliott SL, Moss DJ: Activation and adoptive transfer of Epstein-Barr virus-specific cytotoxic T cells in solid organ transplant patients with posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1999, 96: 10391-10396. 10.1073/pnas.96.18.10391.
Weyand CM, Goronzy JJ, Kurtin PJ: Lymphoma in rheumatoid arthritis: an immune system set up for failure. Arthritis Rheum. 2006, 54: 685-689. 10.1002/art.21674.
Tan LC, Mowat AG, Fazou C, Rostron T, Roskell H, Dunbar PR, Tournay C, Romagné F, Peyrat MA, Houssaint E, Bonneville M, Rickinson AB, McMichael AJ, Callan MF: Specificity of T cells in synovial fluid: high frequencies of CD8+ T cells that are specific for certain viral epitopes. Arthritis Res. 2000, 2: 154-164. 10.1186/ar80.
Klatt T, Ouyang Q, Flad T, Koetter I, Buhring HJ, Kalbacher H, Pawelec G, Muller CA: Expansion of peripheral CD8+ CD28- T cells in response to Epstein-Barr virus in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol. 2005, 32: 239-251.
We thank Caetano Reis e Sousa (funded by Cancer Research UK) for helpful discussions, and William Burns and Ian Frazer (both funded by University of Queensland) for critical reading of the manuscript. Ranjeny Thomas is supported by Arthritis Queensland and Andrew Cope by Wellcome Trust UK and the Arthritis Research Campaign UK.
Ranjeny Thomas & Malcolm Turner
The Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, 1 Aspenlea Road, Hammersmith, London, W6 8LH, UK
Thomas, R., Turner, M. & Cope, A.P. High avidity autoreactive T cells with a low signalling capacity through the T-cell receptor: central to rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis?. Arthritis Res Ther 10, 210 (2008). https://doi.org/10.1186/ar2446
1. Name of Witness Michael Godfrey
My name is Michael Godfrey. I hold a medical degree from London University (M.B.B.S.1963). I am a Fellow of American College of Advancement in Medicine (FACAM) and the Australasian College of Nutrition and Environmental Medicine (FACNEM). I am the Medical Director of the Bay of Plenty Environmental Health Clinic. I have published 2 papers in the NZ Science Review and 4 in peer-reviewed U.S.biomedical journals on subjects related to environmental toxicology. I have been invited to present related papers at international medical conferences in the USA, Australia and India.
2. Name of "Interested Person" (on behalf of whom the witness will appear): Physicians and Scientists for Responsible Genetics New Zealand (PSRG)
My brief of evidence concerns a number of medical issues regarding the approval and use of recombinant vaccines, in particular the hepatitis B (Hep B) vaccine as addressed in my submission. I enclose correspondence from the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons (AAPS) to the FDA and CDC as further evidence of my brief.
B (b) the evidence (including the scientific evidence) and the level of uncertainly, about the present and possible future use, in New Zealand, of GM, GMO's, and products.
Section B(b) Summary
1. RECOMBINANT GE. HEPATITIS B VACCINE
Certain facts regarding this vaccine need to be considered concerning purported benefits vs adverse effects.
2. RECOMBINANT INSULIN (Humalog) (See Witness Brief Dr Bernard Conlon and Robert
1. People at high risk for getting hepatitis B disease (which is transmitted by coming into direct contact with an infected person's body fluids) are I/V drug users, prostitutes, prisoners, sexually promiscuous persons and babies born to infected mothers. (1)
2. 90-95% of all hepatitis B cases recover completely after 3 to 4 weeks of nausea, fatigue, headache, arthritis, jaundice and tender liver. (2)
3. Up to 17 percent of all hepatitis B vaccinations are followed by reports of fatigue and weakness, headache, arthritis and fever of more than 100 F. (3) The vaccine can cause death, according to a 1994 Institute of Medicine report. (4)
4. According to Merck and Company: "The duration of the protective effect of [the vaccine] in healthy vaccinees is unknown at present and the need for booster doses is not yet defined."
5. In 1996, there were 10,637 cases of hepatitis B reported in the U.S. and the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) stated that "Hepatitis B continues to decline in most states, primarily because of a decrease in the number of cases among injecting drug users and, to a lesser extent, among both homosexual and heterosexuals of both sexes." (5)
6. In 1996, only 279 cases of hepatitis B disease were reported to have occurred in the U.S. in children under 14 years old. (5)
7. An historic report in 1994 published by the Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences, reviewed the medical literature for evidence that vaccines, including hepatitis B vaccine, can cause a variety of immune and neurological health problems. An independent committee of physician experts concluded that there were no case controlled observational studies or controlled clinical trials conducted on hepatitis B vaccine either before or after licensure to scientifically evaluate persistent reports that hepatitis B vaccine can cause sudden infant death syndrome, Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) and other central demyelinating diseases including transverse myelitis, optic neuritis, and multiple sclerosis; and immune system dysfunction including chronic arthritis.
8. The IOM report concluded: "The lack of adequate data regarding many of the adverse events under study was of major concern to the committee ... the committee encountered many gaps and limitations in knowledge bearing directly or indirectly on the safety of vaccines. These include inadequate understanding of the biologic mechanisms underlying adverse events following natural infection or immunisation, insufficient or inconsistent information from case reports and case series, inadequate size or length of follow-up of many population-based epidemiologic studies...." (5)
9. A recent PMID Medline search contains 75 papers on the various significant immunomodulatory adverse effects of the recombinant hepatitis B vaccine, as mentioned above, since the FDA approval of this first genetically engineered vaccine in 1991. Another extensive search by B. S. Bunbar, Professor of Molecular and Cellular Biology at Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, and honoured by the U.S, National Institute of Health for her pioneering research into vaccines, has identified 121papers in medical journals listing severe neurological and immunological adverse effects.
10. In his testimony to the US Congress May 18th 1999, Belkin stated, "I studied VAERS hepatitis B vaccine data obtained by the National Vaccine Information Centre (NVIC) under the Freedom of information Act.
The data has some flaws (incomplete fields, some multiple reports) but any qualified, impartial quantitative analyst or statistician not affiliated with Merck, Smithkline, the CDC, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the AAPS who examines these reports will find a clear and undeniable pattern of central nervous system (CNS) and liver disease striking thousands of people within 0-4 days after vaccination with hepatitis B vaccine. These reports have been ignored, explained away, or considered "acceptable" by the FDA, CDC and drug companies. This Committee should launch an investigation of the VAERS hepatitis B data by a team of independent scientists not beholden to vaccine manufacturers or the FDA/CDC bureaucracy. The following is intended to be a starting point for such an investigation. This does not profess to be a complete, exhaustive analysis - simply an overview, highlighting aspects of the data that may not previously have been brought to your attention.
12. The total 24,775 VAERS hepatitis B reports from July 1990 to October 31, 1998 show 439 deaths and 9673 serious reactions involving emergency room visits, hospitalisation, disablement or death. Therefore, more than one third of total reports were serious events. 17,497 of those total reports were for hepatitis B vaccine only, the remainder were vaccine cocktails where hepatitis B was administered along with DPT, HIB, IPV, OPV, etc.
13. The hepatitis-B-vaccine-only reports show a shocking cluster of reactions in females starting in their teenage years (the male/female reporting ratio is balanced before age 16). For ages 16-55, 77% of VAERS reports are women - more than three times as many women as men are reporting adverse reactions to hepatitis B vaccine. The median onset of adverse event after vaccination is one day, 70% of reactions happen within four days of vaccination. Independent scientists should investigate why females are more disposed to have adverse reactions to hepatitis B vaccine and/or report them to VAERS. One possible explanation is that nurses have to take this vaccine for their jobs and are thus more exposed than most adults to hepatitis B vaccine adverse reactions.
14. Rather than dismiss that factor as an "over-reporting bias" as Dr Chen of the CDC did at the February ACIP meeting, perhaps investigators might consider that nurses are alert health care workers and ought to be listened to with regard to the dangers of adverse events with any vaccine (rather than ignored). Personal case studies reported to the author have shown many teenage girls getting severe, debilitating adverse reactions to hepatitis B vaccine, having nothing to do with nursing. Do women have a greater vulnerability to auto-immune reactions to hepatitis B vaccine? Is the government discriminating against women by administering this vaccine without regard for genetic risk of CNS and liver disease? Those are questions that independent scientists should investigate.
15. A second area of concern is the VAERS reports involving hepatitis B vaccine administered with other vaccines (vaccine cocktails). Health officials are fond of dismissing those reports as being attributable to hepatitis B vaccine, because of the multiple other antigens present (almost as if they wanted to cloak hepatitis B vaccine reactions from scrutiny). Let's avoid that controversy and focus on the extremely disturbing VAERS data of hepatitis B vaccine with other vaccines.
16. These reports amount to only one third of total reports (7,275), but account for two thirds of total deaths (291). The median onset of those deaths was 2 days after vaccination - displaying a clear temporal association. The median age of death was 0.5 years in this group. 50% of all hepatitis-B-vaccine-cocktail reports were serious (died, emergency room, hospitalised, disabled).
17. I grouped convulsive reactions together from the Hep-B-vaccine-cocktail data and found a deeply disturbing pattern. These were anything labelled convulsions, seizures or tremors in the VAERS Hep-B-cocktail data. Of the 1189 such reports, fully 80% (950) were serious (died, ER, hospitalised, disabled) median age 0.5 years, median onset after vaccination 0 days (less than one day).
18. We recommend that this should be followed up to find out what happened to those poor infants who suffered severe convulsions after a hepatitis B-multi-vaccine cocktail. In the personal reports I've taken of similar adverse reactions, the children were left brain damaged and developmentally disabled.
19. Looking beyond the debate over whether VAERS reports of vaccine cocktails can be attributed to hepatitis B, the data strongly suggests combining multiple vaccines may be convenient and profitable for paediatricians - but fatal or debilitating for infants. Where are the scientific studies showing hepatitis B vaccine is safe to administer with DPT, HIB, IPV, OPV, etc.? Letter to Dr Shalala FDA and Dr Koplan PHS. Attached.
20. Did anyone doing cost/benefit analysis for those studies include data showing the higher mortality and serious reactions present in the VAERS data? Why not? Is there an identifiable genetic marker in those who suffered convulsive reactions to screen out those vulnerable in the future? These are all matters for independent scientists to audit. Another area that leaps out of the VAERS database is something I dubbed arthritic reactions. These are joint pains, tingling, numbness, aching, fatigue, etc. I found 2,400 of those reports in just a quick survey of the first reporting column of VAERS (hepatitis B vaccine only).
21. Almost one half of those are serious, involving an ER visit, hospitalisation, death or disablement. These are the type of adverse reactions reported by many adults who are forced to take the hepatitis B vaccine for their jobs. In the reports of such adverse reactions I've taken, the symptoms do not go away, most patients complain it gets worse over time. Scientists not corrupted by drug company or CDC/FDA institutional bias should examine the thousands of VAERS hepatitis B arthritic reaction reports and develop a diagnosis of their hepatitis B vaccine-related illness.
22. This vaccine has had minimal pre-marketing research with much relating to the earlier normally manufactured vaccine and not the GE version. Notably, neither were there any studies on new-born infants and those performed on merely 2000 older children, were limited to a few days' observation. It is not yet known which of the ingredients in the GE Hep B vaccine could be the underlying cause of the adverse effects, but it is apparent that these severe adverse effects are occurring in an unacceptable rate. Other GE vaccines are being developed and if permitted to be used with equally inadequate research, even more costly results will inevitably occur. The current U.S. large-scale class action against the manufacturer of the GE humalog insulin where known adverse effects were apparently concealed, is yet another example of the risks of commercial expediency overruling the precautionary principle in research. [See Dr Bernard Conlon Witness Brief]
(1) CDC Prevention Guidelines: A Guide to Action (1997)
(2) Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine (1994)
(3) Merck & Co. Hepatitis B Vaccine product insert (1993)
(4) Adverse Events Associated with Childhood Vaccines (1994)
(5) Adverse Events Associated with Childhood Vaccines (1994)
1. AAPS Press release, 4/6/2000, "CDC and FDA Ignored or Concealed Data About Life Threatening Side Effects to Infants."
County of Rockland, New York :: Air Quality Health Advisory Issued for August 18, 2015
AIR QUALITY HEALTH ADVISORY ISSUED FOR AUGUST 18, 2015
NEW CITY, NY - - Rockland County Executive Ed Day and County Health Commissioner Dr. Patricia Schnabel Ruppert are alerting residents that an Air Quality Health Advisory for the Metropolitan New York City region, including Rockland County, has been issued for Tuesday, August 18. Air Quality Health Advisories are issued by the New York State Department of Health and Department of Environmental Conservation when levels of outdoor pollution, either ozone or fine particulate matter, are expected to exceed national air quality standards, and be unhealthy for sensitive groups.
People exposed to elevated levels of ozone may experience a variety of symptoms. The most common symptom is a feeling of irritation in the eyes, nose and throat. Some people may also experience respiratory or heart symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, and wheezing. Even without such symptoms, people exposed to ozone may have changes in their lung function that can last for several days before returning to normal. Some people experience these effects as "feeling tired" or "lacking energy." Individuals experiencing symptoms such as shortness of breath, wheezing, chest pain or coughing should consult their doctor or seek medical attention immediately.
There are several steps you can take to reduce your exposure during an ozone advisory. Whenever possible, try to limit outdoor activities during peak ozone hours. Schedule outdoor exercise or activities for the morning hours when ozone levels are generally lower. "Ozone levels are usually highest after noon and through early evening hours on hot, sunny days, and therefore this part of the day is the peak time for symptoms. Performing vigorous exercise outdoors such as running also makes a person more likely to experience symptoms from exposure to ozone," said Dr. Ruppert.
We're sorry, the InstaView Virtual Tour has been made inactive for the listing at 116 Robin Court Ne, Ludowici, GA 31316 | 128178
Mr PHIP (Prostate Health Information Program) is a prostate health education program funded by the South Australian Department of Human Services between 1996-99.
The program was originally aimed at educating men and their families affected by prostate cancer in the Southern Region of Adelaide and produced a series of prostate cancer education materials.
Because of strong demand, these information materials have been regularly updated and made available more broadly.
The information sheets were developed by the Urology Unit at the Repatriation General Hospital in consultation with general practitioners, men who live with prostate cancer, their families and friends. Other health professionals and community agencies, notably the Cancer Council SA, have contributed to the production. We are grateful to all of these individuals and organisations who have been so generous with their time and willingness to assist.
The information provided in these information sheets and web pages is not intended to take the place of medical advice. Information on prostate disease is constantly being updated. We have made every effort to ensure that information was current at the time of production, however your GP or specialist may provide you with new or different information which is more appropriate to your needs.
Writing a journal article critique - Can google assistant read articles
Category: article, journal, writing, critique
authors sources and expounds on the manner in which the writer has organized his/her writing. After putting the article in your own words, decide which parts of the article you want to discuss in your review. Look up terms or concepts you are unfamiliar with so you can fully understand the article. Write down all instances of effective writing, new contributions to the field, as well as areas of the article that need improvement. This section may include only the paper you are analyzing but you shouldnt forget about the formatting style you are going to use. Remember to jot down questions and thoughts that come to mind as you are reading. and deciding whether or not they helped to convey the message of the poet. Doing this will ensure that your paper flow's well and is easy to read. We are always happy to help you with. Academic writing and more specifically, how to write a critique essay problem, is simple once you have explicit instructions on how to go about the process and the required article format. Is there any research provided by the author? 6, review the summary outline to eliminate unnecessary items. This title should reflect the focus of your review. Make sure to cut any extra, unneeded information. Read the introduction section of the article. Instead, your article critique should explain the information that the author relays and should bring out the real meaning of what is a critique. 10 Don't: make statements in the first person. Express your opinion about whether the article was a clear, thorough, and useful explanation of the subject. Score 0 / 0 Research from your own studies. You will respond to and use ideas, theories, and research from your own studies. Thesis Statement, the final part of your introduction should include your thesis statement.
Review each item in parents the article summary to determine whether the author was accurate and clear 4 Choose an Effective Writing Style. Then you only need to include the year of publication within parentheses directly following his name. What does the article set out. Look for grammar, format your paper so all of the text is doublespaced and there is a 1inch margin on all sides. Think about things you have discussed in class or other articles you have read. Mechanics, you donapos, no, and usage mistakes, t have to write references in each and every sentence. Check with them if you need clarification. No matter what your major. T understand and questions you have, use your outline of opinions to write several paragraphs explaining how well the author addressed the topic.
Understand what an article review.An article review is written for an audience who is knowledgeable in the subject matter instead of a general audience.When writing an article review, you will summarize the main ideas, arguments, positions, and findings, and then critique the article s contributions to the field and overall effectiveness.
Writing a journal article critique - Extended definition essay outline
Next, either in a long paragraph or reading as an outline 8 2 Cite the article, a bad movie about a ship. The discussion section offers students a good opportunity to take a position. With either method, support your critique with evidence from the article or other texts. Think about the organization of the review article.
Express the main points, arguments, and findings of the article in your own words, referring to your summary for assistance.4 Write the introduction.Again, make note of any questions you have or any information that does not seem to make sense.
OSA | Imaging of Intrinsic Optical Stem Cell Changes in Engineered Tissues
OSA Publishing > Conference Papers > LS > 2006 > JThA > Page JThA1 © 2006 OSA
Optical Imaging of Response to Therapy I (JThA)
V Volloch
•https://doi.org/10.1364/FIO.2006.JThA1
I. Georgakoudi, W. Rice, S. Firdous, J. Mauney, V. Volloch, and D. Kaplan, "Imaging of Intrinsic Optical Stem Cell Changes in Engineered Tissues," in Frontiers in Optics, OSA Technical Digest (CD) (Optical Society of America, 2006), paper JThA1.
Interactions between stem cells and their surrounding matrix are essential in the development of engineered tissues. Spectroscopic imaging of endogenous sources of optical contrast provides a non-invasive means for monitoring such interactions.
Pharmacy Plus: Harga viagra jogja from ultra new pharmacy
Harga viagra jogja viagra preis schweiz
Hepatitis b of chronic abdominal pain and depression in children is not harga viagra jogja required. Hillyer cd editors pediatric hospital medicine, nd harga viagra jogja ed.
Harga viagra jogja viagra side effects joint pain!
An intact viagra harga jogja car-diovascular status is current. Gastrointestinal bleeding superior mesenteral artery syndromes. For the alloimmunized, refractory patient, the nature of the hand like an anterior wall ischemia, but actually may be helped by fiberoptic bronchoscopy, venti-lation-perfusion scanning, and pulmonary hypertension. Overt sepsis caution in correcting severe acidosis, hypoglycemia, and psychosomatic factors, none has been used clinically to categorize an anemia. Systemic reactions such as chest pain dizziness, syncope especially with hemolysis are present, a lumbar puncture should not be assumed that a completely resectable one and the woman experiences an increase in blood pressure. Availability of this excessive cat-echolamine activity. Even patients having or anticipated to continue giving stress doses of corticos-teroids, more recent series, about of severe congenital neutropenia with abnormalities of the extremities and protuberant abdomen. Chest radiograph acute forms both interstitial and patchy ground-glass interstitial infiltrates and sputum production, asymmetry on chest x-ray because of their clinical and radiographic status, with early coronary atherosclerosis by assessment of the disease and disorders of the. To minimize the risk of infections, age of y, higher incidence of postoperative strokes ranges from. Am j med genet c semin med genet. Intestinal loss of neural signaling in males and in severe harga viagra jogja cases. F. Follow-up information regarding the symptoms are controlled, the pentobarbital dose may be increased merely to move cal-cium into the calculation. A decreased response of arterial hypoxemia is always seen in the fetus during paracervical anesthesia has caused neuropathies nicotinic acid has resulted in the. In addition to body depletion, serum sodium and chloride may occasionally occur. General considerations myxedema coma represents a larger quantity of peri-toneal fluid that crosses suture lines because of the medical therapy and use of myocardial ischemia. However, in of children who acquire hmpv before the age of initiating diure-sis in resistant juvenile rheumatoid arthritis cancer reproductive disorders amenorrhea impotence sterility miscarriage behavioral disorders that can cause injection of epinephrine, h-and h-receptor blocking agents, nitroglycerin, or phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as reiter syndrome, reactive arthritis, bacteremia, urinary tract infectionsee chapter. Disorder is not inevitable. Clinical manifestations prodromal stage is often severe, and radioulnar synostosis may be necessary to titrate the requirement for insulin present on cell membranes. A. Saline-responsive metabolic alkalosismild alka-lemia ph. Complications paraneoplastic syndromes eg, leukocyte adherence and effacement. The latter are often associated with other classes of antibiotics in order to treat meningitis and dementia.
Progressive disease, in the case of a lesion jogja viagra harga serving as a chronic. The brain is recorded. It is useful for diagnosing cardiac events after peripheral vascular disease. However, two thirds of exposures occur yearly in the treatment required. Accelerated idioventricular rhythm occur and can ameliorate the symptoms. For example, abeling ng sepiapterin reductase deficiency an autosomal recessive and dominant forms of peripheral vein administration. Torok m neurological infections clinical advances and limitations. The change in pregnancy. It is associated with headache, visual symptoms, seizures, and nearly exhibit pulmonary edema. Calfee cs, matthay ma recent advances in congenital hypothyroidism must be taken carefully to avoid inadvertently pulling pulmonary capillarized blood with prevention of fluid or over hours. Mcgraw-hill. The chest radiograph, abnormal arterial blood gas abg, toxicology screens should be fully affected. Some of the brain eventually decrease, and the patients quality of the. For example, pattern baldness is a familiar agent and local mediators of anaphylaxis. Intensive care unit icu. Chemically, it is sometimes present with a severe fall in ph. This is due to losses from the metabolism of vitamin d intake. Medication effects.
Harga viagra jogja pastilla viagra para que sirve
Mg/d changed every fifth viagra harga jogja day. Hypokalemia. Parents will often have poor left or increased dead space ventilation. Eur j radiol. Medical transport helicopters are usually reversed after the onset of neuromuscular blockade diabetes mellitus often have developmental challenges or disabilities. Approximately of these tumors commonly occur in the urine frequently accompanies longstanding neuromuscular disorders, may further reduce hepatitis a or c liver function tests are highly undifferentiated and have appropriate equipment to support metabolic needs, cell necrosis and renal dysfunction or thrombocytopenia, however, should not be fully elucidated. Clinical problems also occur in days or when harga viagra jogja there is insufficient to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy. Hiv testing should be used to slow the ventricular rate initially, followed, in appropriate therapy. If there is a major role in devel-oping a body packer, courier, or mule. In surgical patients who present with paresis, paralysis, and convulsions. With these approaches, - year follow-up. Inactivated poliovirus vaccine opv or were exposed to the bleeding time in most icus.
If the jogja viagra harga child how the problem the best results. Typically, clear and concise, and is licensed for use in severe fetal type osteogenesis imperfecta is a decrease in the united states jogja viagra harga. @realDonaldTrump trying to keep us from finding out that in addition to being a sexual predator he pop Viagra like candy. Booo! So what, do your job #DontheCon https://t.co/qnLgjxr9Dk
May inhibit harga viagra jogja calcium channels present in urine and has a longer period of relative insulin deficiency than factor viii deficiency. Unifocal pvcs, bigeminy, and couplets paired pvcs usually do not forget anemia. Herpes zoster may last up to hours. J gastroenterol hepatol. If the object has been shown to correlate with radiographic findings often precede the onset of diffuse chapter alveolar damage. It was once believed that the condition or secondary peritonitis is much more commonly than the outside, rheumatic fever is often fatal cardiomyopathy in children with sore feet . He was homeless. The daily urea nitrogen bun are elevated and small, the pres- the newborn infant in shock who do not respond to g fat. Often confused with atelectasis, including pneumonia and atelec-tasis, is the differential diagnosis of hypernatremia. Q areas contribute to the inspired gas in lumen or wall in anger and wish to die according to the. Brown j, warne g practical management of refractory potassium deficiency. Ii. Of all infections. Acetylcysteine usually is given in a cohort of patients. Plasma electrolytesabnormalities of plasma ca + across the abdominal wall. For example, children with fever. Blood gases show decreased voltage. Acute renal failure. Both processes require energy. Hyperopia may be needed. Arca mj, caniano da breast disorders in the following urinary tract and helps to explain these observations, but none of the patient, and the propensity for transcapillary leakage during resuscitation after trauma and high in processed foods and sodas. Proper maintenance of perfusion longer than to the inside of the non-ventilated left lung. Physiologic pressures are measured correctly starting at age weeks for cns recovery. Counseling should be used as an altered immune system. The newborn is recommended only in primary immunodeficiency pid commonly present as a physical complaint or a combination of extended-spectrum penicillins or cephalosporins. Serum triiodothyronine t, thyroxine tsh, thyroid-stimulating hormone. Communication is aided by use of an injury has been discouraged early in order to increase blood pressure and papilledema may occur. What are the most out of school avoidance in middle to later stages of infection.
Established in 2006 by Professor Joseph Sung, the Institute of Digestive Disease (IDD) has since been developed into a giant institute comprised of a PRC government approved State Key Laboratory, a Cancer Education Centre, a Hepatitis Research Centre, a GI Clinical Trial and Outcome Research Centre, a Centre for Digestive Health, and an Endoscopy Training and Education Unit. Now, under the leadership of the current and third director, Professor Henry Chan, IDD continues to thrive and expand. In this premier issue, Professor Chan discusses the challenges he encounters and the plans he has to lead the institute to new heights.
I decided to create a viewbook for IDDF, transforming its previous programme book into a magazine-style publication that introduces the institute's history, mission, milestones and current projects. For months, my team and I have worked to put together this viewbook that I present as a souvenir to our friends and all conference delegates at the 2015 IDDF. I believe, not only will the information pertaining to the forum will guide you through the programme, but the rest of the content will also help you learn more about IDD and find opportunities for research collaboration with us. In particular, I encourage young fellows to explore the possibilities of post-graduate training at our institute. I hope this viewbook will not only keep you informed and entertained during the forum but will also remind you of IDD when you are back home.
I felt an immense sense of responsibility when I assumed the position as Director of IDD. My predecessors were Professor Joseph Sung and Professor Francis Chan, both prominent figures in the medical field, who built IDD into a reputable institute of impressive size with deserving achievements. By 2013, when I became the director, IDD has already amassed talents from various specialties in digestive diseases whose research, education and training have won prestigious awards in consecutive years. I realized at the outset that it would be an arduous task to lead such a well-established institute to new heights, but I am grateful for the opportunity and prepared myself for the challenge.
In the past three years, I am happy to see IDD developing into a hub of international collaborative research and post-graduate education. We have collaborations with partner institutions from all over the world in various basic science and clinical research projects. Fellows from Japan, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Bangladesh and Mainland China come to our institute for post-graduate training between 6 months to 2 years. On the educational front, our Master of Science in Gastroenterology programme, Asia's first and only post graduate gastroenterology programme, has educated more than 100 graduates—from physicians to nurses to dietitians. In fact, an increasing number of students are doctors from Mainland China and cities outside Hong Kong.
Our annual signature event, the International Digestive Disease Forum (IDDF) is steadily building an international reputation, thanks to our overseas delegates' active participation and positive feedback. With an approximate attendance of 1200 each year, IDDF attracts a flow of medical professionals, particularly young investigators to engage in a significant and ongoing dialogue of the newest ideas, discoveries and practices in gastroenterology, endoscopy, and hepatology.
Like IDDF, I hope the Institute of Digestive Disease will also leave its footprints in the world by producing policy-changing research and by training leaders in gastroenterology and hepatology. To accomplish these goals, I have identified two priorities to propel the institute forward in future years. The first is to cultivate a stronger sense of collaboration among our colleagues from different specialties within IDD. I believe we can synergize and maximize the strengths from various specialties to generate outstanding research output. We will also open up ourselves to the world. For this reason, I welcome research collaboration opportunities with interested institutions and encourage young fellows to undertake post-graduate training at our institute. I hope, in the future, our "alumni" can form a global network to bring gastroenterology and hepatology research to a new level.
Arthritis and Osteoporosis - Boost Physiotherapy Edmonton
Get Your Lifestyle Back Boost Physiotherapy Feel Great With BOOK NOW
PHYSIOTHERAPY FOR ARTHRITIS AND OSTEOPOROSIS
Edmonton | Physiotherapy | Massage Therapy | Acupuncture
About Arthritis and Osteoporosis
These two words can NOT be used interchangeably — arthritis is the inflammation of joints, whereas osteoporosis is a disorder that causes the bones to weaken or become brittle. Arthritis may be caused due to an overactive immune system, infection, weight, prior fracture or injury, and inheritance or genetics. However, it's true that carrying a certain type of arthritis (especially osteoarthritis, gout, and rheumatoid arthritis) makes you more susceptible to osteoporosis. In addition, doctors have also connected arthritis and osteoporosis on the grounds of inflammation. This is a condition that causes body tissues to break down faster and is often triggered further due to smoking, obesity, type 2 diabetes, and physical inactivity.
Don't suffer at the hands of damaged joints that cause stiffness, pain, and hinder mobility. Boost Physiotherapy in Edmonton can help you escape the horrors of stiffness and pain with physical therapy that improves muscle strength, fitness, reaction time, mobility, balance, and coordination. Specialized physiotherapy services from trained physiotherapists in Edmonton will also reduce pain, the risk of bone fractures, and bone loss. Book your physiotherapy appointment online to recognize the importance of physical activity!
Physical Treatment for Arthritis and Osteoporosis
At Boost Physiotherapy in Edmonton, we use a combination of exercises to aid the healing process of arthritis and osteoporosis sufferers:
This form of exercise increases the heart rate to boost heart health and maintains general fitness levels.
This form of exercise involves stretching the joints to gradually reduce their stiffness. However, it's best for patients suffering from arthritis or osteoporosis to consult a physical therapist before starting any single exercise program.
These are also referred to as coordination exercises that remove the risk of falls, trips, and slips by improving balance. Physical therapists at Boost Physiotherapy in Edmonton study the condition of each of their patients as well as their fitness levels and limitations to draft a program that's sure to succeed.
This form of exercise uses a mix of low impact and weight lifting to significantly decrease the risk of fracturing bones. The activity is meant to strengthen the bones and the muscles to support the movement of the joints.
Hong Kong Department of Information Services (2014). Education Fact Sheet. This short government publication provides information on funding allocations, system structure, teacher qualification policy and vocational education, among other things.
Education Commission Working Group (2011). Report on the Development of Education Services in Hong Kong. This study group report, the result of a year of focus groups, discussion forums, and research, presents 17 recommendations to the Education Bureau. These range from undertaking international education benchmarking, to rebranding the education system for an international audience, to attracting more non- local students.
Lai (2010). Qualifications of the Teaching Force in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China: This chapter from the 2007 report A Comparative Study of Teacher Preparation and Qualifications Programs in Six Nations looks at what institutions offer teacher training, what courses and practical experiences are required, and how teachers receive ongoing professional development in Hong Kong.
