Participating Hospitals | Surgery | University of Nebraska Medical Center
UNMC › Surgery › Residencies & Fellowships › General Surgery Residency › Program Curriculum › Participating Hospitals
Nebraska Medicine is comprised of the former Clarkson Hospital, the first teaching hospital in Nebraska, and the former University Hospital, the primary teaching facility for the University of Nebraska Medical Center. The combined hospital is a 685 licensed medical/surgical bed facility and serves approximately 25 percent of the Omaha-area market. Nebraska Medicine provides access to tertiary and primary care, including world-class specialized treatment such as solid organ transplantation, burn care, wound care, geriatrics, bone marrow (stem cell) transplantation and other cancer treatments.
Omaha Veterans Affairs Medical Center provides acute medical, surgical and psychiatric care and a wide variety of outpatient services to veterans in the Heartland. It is an acute, highly affiliated, tertiary care facility. It is also home to major clinical research programs. There are approximately 100 acute care beds at the Omaha VA Medical Center.
Founded in 1891, Methodist Hospital is a 430-bed, health care facility offering a full range of educational, medical and surgical services. Methodist Hospital is an affiliate of Methodist Health System and works collaboratively with other health system affiliates including Jennie Edmundson Hospital to provide quality care services to the region. Methodist Hospital's medical staff of more than 1,000 physicians include 300 physicians who primarily practice in Omaha.
Children's Hospital, a non-profit organization caring for children since 1948, is the only pediatric specialty health care center in Nebraska. The unique 'football'-shaped facility has a total of nine floors, including three medical surgical floors, each with 24 single-occupancy rooms. A 25-bed "day hospital," called the Children's Ambulatory Recovery and Express Stay or CARES unit, provides outpatients and their families with individual rooms throughout the surgical or outpatient procedure. The hospital also has a 16-bed pediatric intensive care unit and a 42-bed neonatal intensive care unit.
Founded in 1915, Mary Lanning Memorial Hospital opened in Hastings, Nebraska by Mr. and Mrs. William Lanning, in honor of their late daughter, Mary Tomlinson Lanning. Today, Mary Lanning Healthcare serves patients throughout central Nebraska. It is licensed for 183 beds and employs a staff of nearly 1,000. Mary Lanning Healthcare is the largest employer in Adams County, with an annual payroll of more than $35 million. Physicians practice in medical specialties from cardiology to pulmonology and nephrology to obstetrics and oncology. Over the years, Mary Lanning Healthcare has grown and expanded its facilities to continuously keep pace with the latest in medical technology. One thing that always remains constant, however, is a commitment made nearly a century ago — a commitment to providing a new standard of world-class healthcare, one relationship at a time.
Cuts And Scrapes: First Aid For Babysitters - Understanding The Value Of Acne Treatments
Babysitting a friend or relative's children can be a great way to earn some extra cash. When you agree to babysit, you are taking on responsibility for the health and safety of the children in your care.
Basic first aid skills are essential for all babysitters. These skills will help you effectively treat minor cuts and scrapes when an accident occurs while you are babysitting.
Falling down or being affected by physical trauma can be frightening for a young child. Small children often don't realize what is happening to them, and they will take their cues from you as the babysitter.
It's important that you remain calm and that you keep the child calm as you begin treatment. Speak in age-appropriate language so the child understands that you are treating the wound. Provide young children with a toy or have them watch their favorite movie while you begin treatment to keep their attention off the pain of a cut or scrape.
If the cut or scrape is bleeding, you must get the bleeding to stop before you can proceed with additional treatment. Apply direct pressure to the wound with a clean cloth. The cloth will help absorb blood flow while the pressure restricts blood flow until the wound is no longer bleeding.
Be sure that the cloth you use to stop the bleeding is freshly laundered. A dirty cloth could introduce harmful bacteria into the wound and lead to infection. If you are unable to stop the bleeding within 15 minutes, medical attention is required to prevent the child from going into shock.
Once the bleeding has subsided, you can begin cleaning the wound. Start by running the cut under lukewarm water. Use an antibacterial soap if the cut appears to be dirty or was the result of an animal scratch. This will help reduce the threat of infection.
Pat the cut dry with another clean cloth, taking care to avoid irritating the area so that bleeding doesn't resume. When the cut is completely dry, apply an over-the-counter topical antibiotic ointment. Cover the cleaned and treated wound with a large bandage or a piece of gauze secured in place with adhesive tape.
Cuts and scrapes are a part of life for many young children. As a babysitter, it's important that you know how to provide proper first aid care for these minor injuries in order to prevent them from becoming a major health problem in the future. Consider getting first aid training to help prepare you for times you may need to provide such care.
Mendota Heights-based HealthSense acquires senior monitoring technology firm - StarTribune.com
"Our bed sensor [just] measures an individual getting in and out of bed," Fuhr said.
Terms of the deal were not disclosed. But the merger will add 5,000 new customers to Healthsense's base of 15,000 people in 24 states. The company works with about 70 senior housing providers in Minnesota.
Healthsense, founded in 2007, outfits senior housing providers with technology that collects data about the activities of its residents — door openings, trips to the bathroom and possible falls — and allows caregivers to review it online.
Last year, Healthsense raised $7 million in financing from new investors and, in January, named veteran health care executive A.R. Weiler as CEO. Weiler will lead the merged company.
There are no plans to cut jobs as a result of the acquisition, Fuhr said. Healthsense has about 45 employees, he said. WellAware is smaller.
Ecumen, a Shoreview-based senior housing organization, uses Healthsense technology to allow seniors to be as independent as possible. The monthly cost for the sensors can be from a few dollars to $100, which is relative low in full-time assisted living.
"Technology has allowed us to have quicker responses to customers and identify emerging health issues, which can help keep people out of the hospital," Ecumen spokesman Eric Schubert said.
Schubert said as the population gets older, organizations such as Ecumen will seek out more and more sophisticated technology.
"Sensor technology has become quite a bit more prevalent in the last five years nationally, and I think you're going to continue to see that technology changing and getting better," Schubert said. "It's going to play a significant role in building links between a person's home and their health care provider."
Fuhr said Healthsense will continue to chase new opportunities in the rapidly growing senior care market.
"If we do everything right, we should stay in the news," he said.
Fox News Channel is creating weekend shows for commentator Dan Bongino and former U.S. Rep. Trey Gowdy starting early next month.
The government is providing $7.4 billion to expand the nation's public health capacity, including hiring school nurses to vaccinate kids, setting up a health care service corps and bolstering traditional disease detection efforts, White House officials said Thursday.
The prognostic relevance of primary tumor location in patients undergoing resection for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma | Oncotarget
Oncotarget. 2017; 8:15159-15167. https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.14768
Metrics: PDF 1031 views	| HTML 1421 views	| ?
Qi Ling, Xiao Xu, Panpan Ye, Haiyang Xie, Feng Gao, Qichao Hu, Zhikun Liu, Xuyong Wei, Christian Röder, Anna Trauzold, Holger Kalthoff and Shusen Zheng _
Qi Ling1,2,*, Xiao Xu1,2,*, Panpan Ye3,*, Haiyang Xie1,2, Feng Gao1,2, Qichao Hu2, Zhikun Liu1,2, Xuyong Wei1,2, Christian Röder4, Anna Trauzold4, Holger Kalthoff4, Shusen Zheng1,2
1Department of Surgery, Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China
2Key Laboratory of Combined Multi-Organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, China
3The Ophthalmology Center, The Second Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China
4Institute for Experimental Cancer Research, Comprehensive Cancer Center North, CAU, Kiel, Germany
Holger Kalthoff, email: hkalthoff@email.uni-kiel.de
Received: January 22, 2016 Accepted: January 10, 2017 Published: January 20, 2017
Out of the 64 patients, 34 (53.1%) had tumor recurrence during the follow-up period (2.3 ± 0.8 years). The majority of cases with recurrence (24/34, 70.6%) occurred within 1 year after operation. The 1- and 2-year recurrence rates were significantly lower for the patients with pancreatic body/tail cancer compared with those with pancreatic head cancer (25.0% vs. 50.0%, P = 0.039; 37.5% vs. 65.6%, P = 0.024). Both overall survival and tumor-free survival were significantly higher in the patients with pancreatic body/tail cancer than in those with pancreatic head cancer (Figure 1A). In survival analysis, patient age > 60 years and tumor location at body/tail were found to be independent protective factors against tumor recurrence (Table 1).
Figure 1: Low expression of miR-501-3p in pancreatic body/tail cancer, contributing to a low risk of tumor recurrence. (A) Kaplan-Meier curves, showing both tumor-free survival and patient overall survival, which were higher in the patients with pancreatic body/tail cancer than in those with pancreatic head cancer; (B) Bars representing the significantly lower expression of miR-501-3p and higher expression of miR-375 in pancreatic body/tail cancer compared with pancreatic head cancer, as assessed by qRT-PCR; (C) Kaplan-Meier curves, presenting tumor-free survival and overall survival were significantly lower in the patients with high miR-501-3p expression than those with low expression. *P < 0.05 head vs. body/tail
Table 1: Cox regression analysis of influencing factors associated with tumor-free survival
Age (> 60 vs. ≤ 60 years)
0.452 (0.215–0.948)
0.443 (0.210–0.935)
1.022 (0.505–2.068)
CA 19-9 (positive vs. negative)
1.821 (0.555–5.977)
Differentiation (moderate vs. moderate-poor/poor)
0.839 (0.415–1.697)
0.881 (0.449–1.729)
Location (body/tail vs. head)
0.449 (0.223–0.905)
0.441 (0.218–0.893)
CI, confidence interval; LT, liver transplantation; OR, odds ratio.
A miRNA microarray platform was used to compare miRNA profiles between randomly selected 4 pairs of strictly matched tumor tissues. The majority of miRNAs, including those associated with PDAC [7] (Supplementary Table 1), were not significantly differentially expressed between these two subtypes of PDAC. Of note, we found that 6 miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed (P < 0.05). Taking the fold-changes and rank sum differences into consideration, miR-501-3p was the only candidate for further study with a P < 0.05, a fold-change of > 2 and the largest rank sum difference. We also further assessed miR-375 because it has been reported to be a potent tumor suppressor in PDAC [8]. All 32 paired tumor tissues were used for subsequent validation. We verified the lower expression of miR-501-3p and higher expression of miR-375 in the pancreatic body/tail cancer tissues compared with the pancreatic head cancer tissues (Figure 1B).
Furthermore, the expression of miR-501-3p was significantly associated with tumor-free survival (P = 0.012, risk ratio [RR] = 1.164, 95% confidential interval [CI] = 1.034-1.311) and overall survival (P = 0.008, RR = 1.186, 95% CI = 1.046-1.346). In correlation analysis (Supplementary Table 2), higher miR-501-3p expression was significantly correlated with poorer differentiation (r = 0.272, P = 0.030). A cutoff value of miR-501-3p was then selected according to the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the low expression group showed significantly lower tumor recurrence rate (Supplementary Table 3) and higher tumor-free survival (Figure 1C) than the high expression group.
An in vitro study was performed to evaluate the functional role of miR-501-3p in PDAC cells. A higher invasion rate in the mimics group (Panc1: P = 0.017, Colo357: P = 0.048) and a lower invasion rate in the inhibitors group (Panc1: P = 0.003, Colo357: P = 0.001), respectively, was found compared with their controls (Figure 2A and 2B). These results were further confirmed by a real-time migration and invasion test (Figure 2C).
Figure 2: Biological effects of miR-501-3p on PDAC cells. (A) The mimics group showed the significantly lower proliferation and higher invasiveness of both Panc-1 and colo357 cells compared with its negative control. (B) The inhibitors group presented significantly lower invasiveness of both Panc-1 and colo357 cells compared with its negative control. (C) A real-time invasion test using the xCelligence system, showing the much higher migration and invasion abilities of the mimics group compared with its negative control for Panc-1 cells. *P < 0.05.
A subcutaneous tumor mouse model was used to evaluate tumor growth by directly measuring tumor sizes. On the initial measurement day (7d), the mice in the Lv-miR-501-3p group (n = 7) had smaller tumor sizes compared with those in the Lv-control and Lv-miR-501-3p-inhibition groups (Figure 3A). After that, the mice in the Lv-miR-501-3p and Lv-miR-501-3p-inhibition groups showed increased and decreased tumor growth, respectively, compared with those in the Lv-control group (Figure 3A). However, there were no significant differences in tumor volume (TV) between the experimental and control groups. In contrast, the Lv-miR-501-3p group presented a significantly elevated relative tumor volume (RTV) curve compared with that of the Lv-control group (Figure 3B). At the end of the experiment, the mice were sacrificed. Intact capsules and central necrosis were found in all tumors. Two out of 6 mice had liver metastasis in the Lv-miR-501-3p group (Figure 3B), while no metastasis was found in the other two groups.
Figure 3: MiR-501-3p promotes tumor development in subcutaneous and orthotopic PDAC mouse models. (A) A comparison of tumor size showed a significantly larger relative tumor volume for the Lv-miR-501-3p group compared with the Lv-control group. (B) Pathological examination confirmed liver metastases (right panel) of subcutaneous tumors (left panel) in the Lv-miR-501-3p group. (C) The primary tumor and abdominal metastatic burden in mice orthotopically implanted with tumor pieces. The Lv-miR-501-3p group showed a significantly higher tumor burden (reflected by total flux) than the Lv-control group. *P < 0.05.
Furthermore, using an in vivo imaging system, tumor burden was recorded in an orthotopic PDAC model (Figure 3C). Compared with the Lv-control group (n = 8), the Lv-miR-501-3p group demonstrated a higher tumor burden and faster tumor development (Figure 3C). The first tumor metastasis event was observed in the Lv-miR-501-3p group at 5 weeks after implantation (Figure 3C). At 6 weeks, a mouse in the Lv-miR-501-3p group died, possibly due to a high tumor burden. At the end of the experiment, a total of 3 mice had tumor metastasis, and 1 mouse had died in the Lv-miR-501-3p group. In contrast, no mouse experienced tumor metastasis or died in the Lv-control group.
To reveal the underlying mechanism of miR-501-3p-induced invasion, an antibody microarray was used to analyze differential protein expression between Panc-1 cells transfected with either miR-501-3p mimics or its control (Supplementary Table 4). But the significantly different expressed proteins were not predicted to be direct potential targets of miR-501-3p using open-source software. Yet, E-cadherin as a well-studied one involved in cancer invasion has an interaction network with miR-501-3p (Supplementary Figure 3), and thus was chosen for further experiments. The high and low E-cadherin-expressing cell lines (Colo357 and Panc-1, respectively) were used (Supplementary Figure 4). We found reduced E-cadherin protein expression in the mimics group and its increased expression in the inhibitors group compared with their respective controls in both cell lines (Figure 4A). Furthermore, we manipulated the E-cadherin expression and found the enforced expression of E-cadherin could rescue the miR-501-3p effects in Panc-1 cells (Figure 4B).
Figure 4: MiR-501-3p down-regulates the expression of E-cadherin. (A) The expression of E-cadherin was lower in the mimics group and higher in the inhibitors group, respectively, compared with their negative controls in both Panc-1 and Colo357 cells. (B) The enforced expression of E-cadherin reduces the miR-501-3p-enhanced invasiveness in Panc-1 cells. (C) The higher and lower expression of E-cadherin and miR-501-3p, respectively, in human pancreatic body/tail cancer tissues compared with pancreatic head cancer tissues (400×). (D) Linear correlation analysis showed a negative correlation between the expression of E-cadherin and miR-501-3p. (E) In the orthotopic PDAC model, Lv-miR-501-3p group showed higher expression of miR-501-3p and lower expression of E-cadherin mRNA and protein in the tumor tissue than the Lv-control group.*P< 0.05.
Using immunohistochemistry analysis, we found significantly high and low expressed E-cadherin and miR-501-3p, respectively, in pancreatic body/tail cancers than pancreatic head cancers (Figure 4C). There was a significant negative correlation between the expression of E-cadherin and miR-501-3p (r = –0.596, P = 0.015, Figure 4D). In the orthotopic PDAC model, Lv-miR-501-3p group presented higher expression of E-cadherin in the tumor tissue than the Lv-control group (Figure 4E).
Microarray analysis was performed using an Agilent Human miRNA Microarray Kit (8 × 15 k), version 14.0 (design ID: 31945) according to the manufacturer's protocols. Total RNA was extracted and purified using a mirVana™ miRNA Isolation Kit (Ambion, Austin, TX, USA), and the RIN number was determined to assess RNA integrity with an Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100 (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA). The data were analyzed with online SBC analysis system (http://www.shbio.com/sas.html, ShanghaiBio Corp., Shanghai, China) and uploaded to Gene Expression Omnibus (GSE83496). The t-test, fold change and Benjamini-Hochberg's false discovery rate methods were used.
Human PDAC cell lines (Capan-1, Capan-2, Panc-1, PancTu-1, Panc89, BxPc-3 and Colo357) and culture condition had been described previously [17]. MiR-501-3p mimics, inhibitors or their negative controls were purchased from Life Technologies, Darmstadt, Germany in order to positively or negatively influence the respective miRNA level. Plasmids were synthesized by GenePharma, Shanghai, China. Transfection was performed according to the manufacturer's protocol [16].
Double-stranded oligonucleotides corresponding to the wild-type (WT-3′-UTR) or mutant (MUT-3'-UTR) miR-501-3p binding sites in the 3′-UTRs of the potential target genes were synthesized (GenePharma, Shanghai, China) and ligated into apsiCHECKTM-2 Vector (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). The detailed procedure has been described previously [19].
1. Slattery ML, Wolff E, Hoffman MD, Pellatt DF, Milash B, Wolff RK. MicroRNAs and colon and rectal cancer: differential expression by tumor location and subtype. Genes Chromosomes Cancer. 2011; 50:196–206.
2. Khashab MA, Shin EJ, Amateau S, Canto MI, Hruban RH, Fishman EK, Cameron JL, Edil BH, Wolfgang CL, Schulick RD, Giday S. Tumor size and location correlate with behavior of pancreatic serous cystic neoplasms. Am J Gastroenterol. 2011; 106:1521–1526.
3. Park J, Lee KT, Jang TH, Seo YW, Lee KH, Lee JK, Jang KT, Heo JS, Choi SH, Choi DW, Rhee JC. Risk factors associated with the postoperative recurrence of intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms of the pancreas. Pancreas. 2011; 40:46–51.
4. Pitman MB, Lewandrowski K, Shen J, Sahani D, Brugge W, Fernandez-del Castillo C. Pancreatic cysts: preoperative diagnosis and clinical management. Cancer Cytopathol. 2010; 118:1–13.
5. Gidekel Friedlander SY, Chu GC, Snyder EL, Girnius N, Dibelius G, Crowley D, Vasile E, DePinho RA, Jacks T. Context-dependent transformation of adult pancreatic cells by oncogenic K-Ras. Cancer Cell. 2009; 16:379–389.
6. Ling Q, Xu X, Zheng SS, Kalthoff H. The diversity between pancreatic head and body/tail cancers: clinical parameters and in vitro models. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2013; 12:480–487.
7. Srivastava SK, Arora S, Singh S, Bhardwaj A, Averett C, Singh AP. MicroRNAs in pancreatic malignancy: progress and promises. Cancer letters. 2014; 347:167–174.
8. Basu A, Alder H, Khiyami A, Leahy P, Croce CM, Haldar S. MicroRNA-375 and MicroRNA-221: Potential Noncoding RNAs Associated with Antiproliferative Activity of Benzyl Isothiocyanate in Pancreatic Cancer. Genes Cancer. 2011; 2:108–119. doi: 10.1177/1947601911409212
9. Lau MK, Davila JA, Shaib YH. Incidence and survival of pancreatic head and body and tail cancers: a population-based study in the United States. Pancreas. 2010; 39:458–462.
10. Ding L, Xu Y, Zhang W, Deng Y, Si M, Du Y, Yao H, Liu X, Ke Y, Si J, Zhou T. MiR-375 frequently downregulated in gastric cancer inhibits cell proliferation by targeting JAK2. Cell Res. 2010; 20:784–793.
12. Butz H, Liko I, Czirjak S, Igaz P, Korbonits M, Racz K, Patocs A. MicroRNA profile indicates downregulation of the TGFbeta pathway in sporadic non-functioning pituitary adenomas. Pituitary. 2011; 14:112–124.
13. Larsen AC. Conjunctival malignant melanoma in Denmark: epidemiology, treatment and prognosis with special emphasis on tumorigenesis and genetic profile. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016; 94 Thesis 1:1–27.
14. Li A, Yu J, Kim H, Wolfgang CL, Canto MI, Hruban RH, Goggins M. MicroRNA Array Analysis Finds Elevated Serum miR-1290 Accurately Distinguishes Patients with Low-Stage Pancreatic Cancer from Healthy and Disease Controls. Clin Cancer Res. 2013; 19:3600–3610.
15. Zheng S, Chen H, Wang Y, Gao W, Fu Z, Zhou Q, Jiang Y, Lin Q, Tan L, Ye H, Zhao X, Luo Y, Li G, et al. Long non-coding RNA LOC389641 promotes progression of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and increases cell invasion by regulating E-cadherin in a TNFRSF10A-related manner. Cancer Lett. 2016; 371:354–365.
16. von Karstedt S, Conti A, Nobis M, Montinaro A, Hartwig T, Lemke J, Legler K, Annewanter F, Campbell AD, Taraborrelli L, Grosse-Wilde A, Coy JF, El-Bahrawy MA, et al. Cancer cell-autonomous TRAIL-R signaling promotes KRAS-driven cancer progression, invasion, and metastasis. Cancer Cell. 2015; 27:561–573.
17. Sipos B, Moser S, Kalthoff H, Torok V, Lohr M, Kloppel G. A comprehensive characterization of pancreatic ductal carcinoma cell lines: towards the establishment of an in vitro research platform. Virchows Arch. 2003; 442:444–452.
18. Cardone RA, Greco MR, Zeeberg K, Zaccagnino A, Saccomano M, Bellizzi A, Bruns P, Menga M, Pilarsky C, Schwab A, Alves F, Kalthoff H, Casavola V, et al. A novel NHE1-centered signaling cassette drives epidermal growth factor receptor-dependent pancreatic tumor metastasis and is a target for combination therapy. Neoplasia. 2015; 17:155–166.
19. Du C, Lv Z, Cao L, Ding C, Gyabaah OA, Xie H, Zhou L, Wu J, Zheng S. MiR-126–3p suppresses tumor metastasis and angiogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma by targeting LRP6 and PIK3R2. J Transl Med. 2014; 12:259.
20. Xu X, Liu Z, Wang J, Xie H, Li J, Cao J, Zhou L, Zheng S. Global proteomic profiling in multistep hepatocarcinogenesis and identification of PARP1 as a novel molecular marker in hepatocellular carcinoma. Oncotarget. 2016; 7:13730–13741. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.7316.
Reptile Vet Abbottstown - 24 Hour Reptile Vet Near Me
Reptile Vet in Abbottstown
Abbottstown reptile vets and certified doctors are licensed in the medical treatment of reptiles.
Home > Abbottstown > Reptile Vet Abbottstown
PetPals Veterinary Hospital Abbottstown Provides Reliable Reptile Vet Services in Abbottstown. You Can Be Confident That You Are Receiving Extraordinary Reptile Vet Expertise. Our Highly Trained Experts Offer You First-Class Exotic Reptile Vet, Local Reptile Vet, And Exotic Animal Vet Services All Across Abbottstown.
PetPals Veterinary Hospital Abbottstown, Abbottstown specializes in the Medication of Amphibians And Reptiles. We provide precautionary care, rearing and nutritional help, behavior discussions, surgery, and general medication suggestions for your Non-Traditional Pets. We know that each species of pet has its own unique requirements, and we adjust our services accordingly.
Abbottstown Emergency Vet Care For Reptiles
Reptiles are very sturdy and can frequently hide signs of discomfort. Many wounds that look small, can in reality be critical. All reptiles and amphibians are capable of feeling pain. PetPals Veterinary Hospital Abbottstown offers suitable Emergency Vet guidance and treatment for all injured reptiles and amphibians in Abbottstown
Specialist Reptile Pet Facilities in Abbottstown
PetPals Veterinary Hospital Abbottstown's expertise, merged with a true admiration for these uncanny pets, enables us to give the Best Medical Treatment For Your Reptile. At PetPals Veterinary Hospital Abbottstown, you can be relieved that you are getting excellent reptile vet expertise. Your pet will benefit from our team's specialist reptile vet treatment.
Abbottstown Experienced Vet Care For Reptiles
Reptiles can be amazing pets. Some have foundational rearing and dietary necessities, while others have more complex Care Needs For Heating, Lighting, And Food. The doctors and workers at PetPals Veterinary Hospital Abbottstown have years of proficiency tending a range of reptiles in Abbottstown.
Reptile Routine Exams in Abbottstown
Reptile Diet And Environmental Consultations in Abbottstown
Abbottstown Reptile Parasite Control
Sometimes more complex nurturing regimens are required to Handle Your Reptile's Problems. In those times, we can help you with a large range of diagnosis, treatment, and hospitalization options. PetPals Veterinary Hospital Abbottstown provides the best reptile diagnostic, therapeutic, and surgical procedures and solutions in Abbottstown
Effects of gambling on youth dlrvx
A gambling addiction occurs when a person continues to gamble despite negative effects that may impact their finances, relationships, or well-being.This often delays recovery and treatment and allows a gambling addiction to lead to other serious effects, including loss of jobs, failed relationships... Health Effects of Problem Gambling - 2013 | Australian… Problem gambling is defined as "difficulties in limiting money and/or time spent on gambling which leads to adverse consequences for the gambler, others, or for the community."1 By thisYouth gambling problems: examining risk and protective factors. International Gambling Studies 1: 25-47. Effects of Problem Gambling | Problem Gambling | Suicide effects of problem gambling. It is important to recognize that most people can gamble without negative consequences.Youth Gambling International Newsletter. A major depressive disorder is likely to occur in 76 percent of pathological gamblers (Unwin.100. Youth Gambling: How Big a Problem? Are youth gambling more, less, or about the same? How much money do youths spend on gambling? There have been two recent reviews ofThis practice of lowering the cut score for youth has the effect of casting a wider net and is likely to account in part for the higher prevalence rates...
It includes recommendations on how to include children in problem gambling treatment; how to make children a discussion topic in support groups; the impacts of problem gambling on youth; and ways to reduce the risks.
Gambling - Ministry of the Interior Gambling profits are used to support public interest activities, based on funding for and the promotion of sports and physical education, science, art, youth work, health and social wellbeing. Youth Gambling
It became part of the Stop Predatory Gambling Foundation in 2008. Harm caused by gambling - Sosiaali- ja terveysministeriö Veikkaus reimburses the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for the costs incurred in its statutory tasks of monitoring and research on the harmful effects of gambling and development of prevention and treatment as laid down in the … Handbooks & Pamphlets | Gambling, Gaming & Technology Use It includes recommendations on how to include children in problem gambling treatment; how to make children a discussion topic in support groups; the impacts of problem gambling on youth; and ways to reduce the risks.
The impact of social media gambling sites on youth: Should we be concerned? Jeffrey L. Derevensky, Ph.D. Professor, School/Applied Child Psychology. Professor, Psychiatry. International Centre for Youth Gambling Problems and High-Risk Behaviors. McGill University. www.youthgambling.com.
Background. Disordered gambling (ie, excessive wagering on an uncertain outcome) contributes to financial, legal and social/vocational difficulties and various mental and physical health problems including other addictive behaviours, delinquent and criminal behaviours, depression and suicide.1 The problem is particularly acute among youth. About the Problem Gambling Prevention Program - Prevention Lane
The impact of social media gambling sites on youth: Should we be concerned? Jeffrey L. Derevensky, Ph.D. Professor, School/Applied Child Psychology. Professor, Psychiatry. International Centre for Youth Gambling Problems and High-Risk Behaviors. McGill University. www.youthgambling.com. Discovery Conference, April 2013 University Students Gambling: Examining the Effects of Betting on... of economic renewal through gambling, particularly through the development of casinos and betting centers. The youth especially university students have resulted into betting and at times they do it at the expense of education. In several instances university students have committed suicide after losing on bets, some have Here are shocking effects of gambling to youths that you ... One time gambling is not harmful, but pathological gambling is. Sadly these young fellows especially aged between 15 and 23 are indulging in this uncontrollably.
FAT FREEZING | WHAT TO EXPECT DURING COOLSCULPTING
FAT FREEZING: WHAT TO EXPECT DURING A COOLSCULPTING TREATMENT
Home » FAT FREEZING: WHAT TO EXPECT DURING A COOLSCULPTING TREATMENT
FAT FREEZING: WHAT TO EXPECT DURING A COOLSCULPTING TREATMENT2019-01-252019-06-21https://avahlee.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/avahlee-logo-4-updated.jpgAvahlee Body Sculptinghttps://avahlee.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/fat-freezing-lehi.jpg200px200px
Fat Freezing refers to the revolutionary fat reduction treatment known as CoolSculpting. Using advanced cooling technology, CoolSculpting reduces stubborn bulges by freezing fat cells to death in a process known as Cryolipolysis. While freezing away fat may sound too good to be true, the science is proven, and CoolSculpting before and after pictures, along with raving CoolSculpting reviews prove cryolipolysis really can reduce fat without surgery or downtime.
Read on to learn more about fat freezing and what to expect during a CoolSculpting Treatment.
Begin With a CoolSculpting Consultation
To get started with CoolSculpting, make sure you find an experienced and reputable Utah provider to schedule a complimentary consultation. During a consultation from Avahlee Medical Spa, your personal fat reduction specialist will go over the fat freezing procedure in detail and determine if you are a suitable candidate. They will also discuss CoolSculpting cost. If you think fat freezing is right for you, your specialist will help customize a treatment plan that meets both your needs and matches your budget.
You can schedule a complimentary consultation with Avahlee Medical Spa by filling out an online contact form or calling (801) 341-8341.
Save 25% off CoolSculpting Cost with Avahlee Medical Spa
Reduce stubborn fat without surgery or Downtime
Freezing fat with CoolSculpting's state-of-the-art technology is a safe, fast, painless experience. After your CoolSculpting specialist marks the treatment area, he or she will position a CoolSculpting applicator onto the stubborn bulge you wish to get rid of. Typically, applicators are secured to the treatment area using a gentle vacuum mechanism that suctions the applicator in place. The suction also draws fat cells to the surface of the skin for maximum exposure. When the fat freezing machine is turned on, precisely controlled cooling penetrates the treatment area, freezing subcutaneous fat cells without harming the overlying skin or tissue. At first, you may experience a weird sensation of tugging and intense cold in the treatment area. However, these sensations dissipate within the first few minutes of your fat freezing treatment. Most patients report a painless, even relaxing experience during the procedure.
Cooling cycles typically last 35 minutes, but may be longer or shorter depending on the unique parameters of your treatment plan. Once the fat freezing cycle is complete, your technician will massage the treatment area for one to two minutes. CoolSculpting requires no downtime, so you are free to resume your normal activities, including exercise, immediately following your fat freezing treatment.
Related Article: How Does CoolSculpting Work?
After Your Fat Freezing Treatment
CoolSculpting utilizes the body's immune system to gradually collect and dispose of the frozen fat cells. This natural process can take several weeks. Individual experiences vary, but some patients see results in as little as four weeks. However, most patients require 8 to 12 weeks to see the full potential of their fat freezing treatment.*
Immediately after your fat freezing treatment, you may experience symptoms associated with an immune response as your body metabolizes the destroyed fat cells. This may include tenderness, bruising, redness, and swelling at the treatment site. However, these CoolSculpting side effects are mild and resolve themselves within days.
Learn More about CoolSculpting Side Effects
Fat Freezing in Salt Lake City and Utah County
Find out if freezing fat is right for you by scheduling an appointment with Avahlee Medical Spa, the premier CoolSculpting SLC and Utah County provider by signing up online or calling (801) 341-8341.
› University of tennessee study abroad
Listing Websites about Tennessee Study
The Tennessee study: factors affecting treatment outcome …
Details: The Tennessee study: factors affecting treatment outcome and healing time following nonsurgical root canal treatment Root filled and restored teeth by pre-doctoral students were included in this study. Teeth/roots were followed-up regularly, and treatment outcome was evaluated at every follow-up appointment (healed, healing, uncertain or program of study tennessee
› Get more: Program of study tennesseeView Study
Details: The second lesson brought forward by the Tennessee study concerns the outcomes currently used to judge the effectiveness of pre-K programs. This issue concerns what children should learn. The tennessee study abroad
› Get more: Tennessee study abroadView Study
Free! Tennessee Unit Study - Ben and Me
Details: Tennessee Unit Study. In 1784, a group of people living in modern day upper east Tennessee attempted to form a state that they called Franklin. They applied for admission to the union by the Continental Congress but were refused. Twelve years later, on June 1, 1796, Tennessee became the 16th state to join the union. The state, as we know it university of tennessee study abroad
› Get more: University of tennessee study abroadView Study
Studies Planning - Tennessee State Government - TN.gov
Details: The Strategic Transportation Investments Division and Long Range Planning Division of TDOT are responsible for producing a variety of studies for federal, state, and local highways. These studies provide analysis for potential projects that address safety, congestion, and economic development needs across the state. The studies also help determine the level of commitment … tennessee pre k study
› Url: Tn.gov View Study
› Get more: Tennessee pre k studyView Study
What does the Tennessee pre-K study really tell us about …
Details: More. A new study of the effects of Tennessee's Voluntary Pre-K (TNVPK) program has ignited debate about the benefits of preschool right at a time when the Build Back Better bill—which tennessee preschool study
› Get more: Tennessee preschool studyView Study
Details: Low funding, poor quality and a lack of support in elementary schools could be leading to poor outcomes after pre-K. While the Tennessee pre-K study shows how important it is for early ed programs to evaluate their outcomes, some experts caution against using the study to draw conclusions about public pre-K nationwide. tennessean train
› Url: Hechingerreport.org View Study
› Get more: Tennessean trainView Study
The Tennessee Study of Class Size in the Early School …
Details: The Tennessee Study of Class Size in the Early School Grades Frederick Mosteller Abstract The Tennessee class size project is a three-phase study designed to determine the effect of smaller class size in the earliest grades on short-term and long-term pupil per-formance. The first phase of this project, termed Project STAR (for Student-Teacher pre k in tennessee
› Url: Edsource.org View Study
› Get more: Pre k in tennesseeView Study
Details: If you closely follow early education news, you're surely aware of the latest findings from a multi-year, randomized control study out of Vanderbilt University that followed about 3,000 children in Tennessee to measure the long-term effects of the state's public pre-K program, the Tennessee Voluntary Pre-K Program (TN-VPK). The study includes children who attended …
New pre-K research reveals 'disconcerting' results in Tennessee
Details: The multi-year study is the nation's only thorough, ongoing investigation into the impacts of a statewide pre-K program for economically disadvantaged children using a random sample, which lessens the likelihood of bias. The first findings, published in 2015, shook the early education community in Tennessee and across the nation. Researchers
› Url: Tn.chalkbeat.org View Study
About that Tennessee pre-K study The Thomas B. Fordham Institute
Details: About that Tennessee pre-K study. It's rare that a piece of social science makes you question the nature of your reality, but such was my reaction to the latest, much-discussed update on the performance of Tennessee's pre-k program—or more specifically, on the fate of the 2,990 children from low-income families who applied to
› Url: Fordhaminstitute.org View Study
Details: Tennessee Disability Services Study. Mailing address: Department of Special Education PMB 228, Peabody College Vanderbilt University Nashville, TN 37203. Emily Lanchak, Project Coordinator (615) 343-9664 phone
› Url: Tndisabilitysurvey.org View Study
The Tennessee Pre-K Study Debate: Proof or Outlier?
Details: The recent study from Tennessee followed 2,990 students who either did or did not attend the state's voluntary pre-K program in 2009 and 2010 through the end of sixth grade in a randomized control study, comparing children who were randomly selected to attend to those who applied but didn't get in, a high quality way to assess the impacts
› Url: Earlylearningnation.com View Study
A top researcher says it's time to rethink our entire approach to …
Details: What went wrong in Tennessee. No study is the last word. The research on pre-K continues to be mixed. In May 2021, a working paper (not yet peer reviewed) came out that looked at Boston's pre-K
Details: Tennessee State University is dedicated to helping students develop the skills needed for the real world. Our vibrant campus life, leadership opportunities, rigorous academic programs, access to scholarships and student services are …
› Url: Tnstate.edu View Study
Details: The new study conducted by Everytown Research analyzed FBI crime data spanning from 2011 to 2020 across 38 states in the U.S. that collectively cover 49 million people. Analysis revealed Tennessee
› Url: Wkrn.com View Study
Market Study Explores Tennesseans' Perspectives on COVID-19
Details: NASHVILLE - Today the Tennessee Department of Health released results from a third party, statewide quantitative and qualitative survey of more than 1,000 adult Tennesseans exploring sentiments around the COVID-19 vaccine. The COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary in Tennessee and this survey explored perspectives associated with choosing to receive the …
Details: Black and male teachers in Tennessee have received lower classroom observation scores than their White and female peers every year since the state launched its teacher evaluation system in 2011, says a new study. The same gaps show up even when comparing similarly qualified teachers whose students achieve similar test score gains.
Research paper thesis statement faifu
Thesis Statements- CRLS Research Guide You will develop a thesis statement about your research topic after you have written a Statement of Purpose and done some actual research into the topic. You will then present your thesis statement in your introduction, prove it with evidence in the body of your paper, project, or presentation, and finally restate it along with a summary of your evidence in your conclusion. How to Write a Thesis Statement for a Research Paper How to Write a Thesis Statement for a Research Paper. All existing types of essays have an outline to ensure that the reader can understand everything. You have to know how to define and formulate a thesis in an essay as various kinds of essays have different formats of writing. The Thesis Statement: Research Paper - YouTube 528Hz Tranquility Music For Self Healing & Mindfulness Love Yourself - Light Music For The Soul - Duration: 3:00:06. Guild Of Light - Tranquility Music 1,089,206 views
Thesis Statements: Four Steps to a Great Essay | 60second ... A+ essays support those thesis statements with well-chosen examples and tightly-reasoned arguments—the hallmarks of persuasive writing. ... from the organization of your research, to the writing ... Euthanasia Research Paper Tips and Sample - EssayShark Conclusion - the same as usual: restate the thesis statement and give a short summary of your euthanasia research paper. Your final task is to organize your notes, make corrections where it is needed and so on. After you do it, type the final draft and your euthanasia research paper is done! Thesis Statement - Writing Your Research Papers - SJSU ... From the University of North Carolina Writing Center this handout describes how to create a thesis statement for your research paper. How to Write a Thesis Statement (Website/handout) From Indiana University Bloomington Writing Center this handout provides more examples of thesis statement writing.
Thesis Statement Examples and Advices From Experts This is a good research paper thesis statement, as it is precise, shows what the paper is about and what the stance of the researcher is. Another reason why this is an excellent research statement is because it provides the researcher with a structure for research and the groundwork for acquiring relevant data. What is a Thesis Statement? - Explorable.com A thesis statement is a sentence that states what you want your paper to show, what you want to convince your readers of after having read your thesis. This is the foundation of the entire work and informs the reader exactly what you wish to achieve with the paper, and what you wish to prove or disprove. Thesis statement for technology | Research Paper on Technology
Research Paper Thesis Statement - cheapgetwritingessay.com This lesson provides you with some examples of thesis statements for research papers.How to Write a Thesis Statement in 5 Quick and Easy Steps - Place4Pap…Research Paper OutlineJul 25, 2019 · A thesis statement is a declarative sentence that asserts the position a paper will be taking. This statement should be both specific and arguable. Thesis Statement — 100 Essay Topics Thesis statements provide the main point of your essay and help to keep your writing on topic. How to Write a Thesis Statement. Before you begin writing your thesis statement, write down the following: What is the main point of your essay? List the evidence/information you will provide in support; These are the two components of a thesis statement. How to Write a Thesis Statement for a Character Analysis ... Dynamic characters fuel fiction. A character analysis paper analyzes a character's personality and behavior to draw conclusions about her motivations. The thesis statement of a character analysis paper presents an argument about the significance of the character in relation to the story. Creating Thesis Statement & Outline - Library - Butte College
Writing MLA research papers can be stressful, whether you write them for a traditional classroom or as part of your homeschool education. MLA Research Paper Thesis Statement. Many students agree that writing a good thesis statement for an MLA research paper is the toughest part of the challenge. Good Thesis Statement For A Research Paper Good Thesis Statement For A Research Paper. good thesis statement for a research paper A thesis statement in an essay is a sentence that explicitly identifies the purpose of the paper or previews its main ideas.In composition and academic writing, a thesis statement (or controlling idea) is a sentence in an essay, report, research paper, or speech that identifies the main idea and/or central ... Outline and thesis generators - Nail That Paper
Taylor Assumes Presidency of American Society for Reproductive Medicine < Yale Stem Cell Center
Taylor Assumes Presidency of American Society for Reproductive Medicine
Hugh S. Taylor, MD, chair and Anita O'Keeffe Young Professor of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, and professor of molecular, cellular, and developmental biology, took office today as president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM). His elevation to the presidency completes the progression set into motion in 2018, when ASRM announced he would become president in 2020 after one year as vice president and a second as president-elect.
"I am excited to collaborate with and lead a group of talented researchers and medical professionals who understand the impact of reproductive medicine research," said Taylor, who is internationally known for his studies on the endometrium and endometriosis. "There are so many unsolved issues that affect people from birth, so research and practice around reproduction can impact a number of patients throughout their lives."
Taylor's clinical interests include IVF, infertility, endometriosis, implantation, menopause, uterine anomalies, and Asherman's syndrome. He has received 15 National Institutes of Health research grants and directs the Yale Center for Reproductive Biology.
Taylor has published more than 400 articles in leading medical journals and is a member of the National Academy of Medicine.
