Coronavirus And US Safety And Health Law - Employment and HR - United States
United States: Coronavirus And US Safety And Health Law
by Matthew C. Cooper , Peter S. Gould , Darin Smith and Cole A. Wist
The coronavirus, and the illness caused by the coronavirus, COVID-19, are dominating headlines, stock markets and daily conversation. They are also raising many questions—and employers in the US are facing one such critical question: How do we help ensure the health and safety of our employees? Squire Patton Boggs helps provide some answers below.
Nearly all employers in the U.S. have a statutory duty to comply with occupational safety and health standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).1 Therefore, it is important for employers to know and understand what specific OSHA standards may be implicated by and apply to the coronavirus.
In addition, nearly all employers in the U.S. have a statutory duty to "furnish to each of his employees employment and a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm to his employees."2 As the coronavirus spreads, and invariably becomes more of a recognized hazard in the workplace every day, employers should evaluate their current health and safety protocols and implement additional best practices, as needed, to help ensure a safe work environment.
OSHA does not have a standard specific for the coronavirus or COVID-19. However, per agency comments thus far, it is possible that OSHA could attempt to use and enforce a variety of current OSHA standards to the extent that coronavirus presents an occupational exposure risk. Thus, employers should be aware of and familiarize themselves with the following OSHA standards:
The General Duty (referenced above) to provide a workplace free from recognized hazards. This standard requires employers to take reasonable steps to ensure a safe and healthy work environment. Such reasonable steps could include providing information regarding coronavirus and COVID-19 to employees, developing a safety and health policy, communicating and training employees on the policy, and enforcing that policy.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) standards, which generally require the use of gloves, eye and face protection and respiratory protection.3 When respiratory protection is necessary, employers must implement a comprehensive respiratory protection program in accordance with the Respiratory Protection standard.4 The Respiratory Protection standard is technical and should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
Recordkeeping standards require covered employers to record certain work-related injuries and illnesses.5 While the common cold and flu are not required to be recorded,6 OSHA's current position is that COVID-19 is required to be recorded when an employee is infected with coronavirus and falls ill in the course of employment.
General Environmental Control standards cover specific requirements for workplace sanitation, including general housekeeping, waste disposal and washing facilities.7
The Bloodborne Pathogens standard applies to occupational exposure to human blood.8 While the coronavirus is not presently known to be transmitted through bloodborne pathogens, OSHA advises that this standard could still provide a framework for controlling coronavirus exposure to the extent transmitted via bodily fluids more generally.
Lastly, employers that operate in US states with OSHA-approved "State Plans" should also be aware of and familiarize themselves with state-specific standards. In many instances, a State Plan will mirror federal OSHA standards; but some states have promulgated and implemented more stringent standards and requirements.
In addition to complying with applicable and relevant OSHA standards, employers should also evaluate their current health and safety plans. It is critical for employers to have the proper and necessary processes and procedures in place to help mitigate employee exposure to coronavirus and to conduct training to ensure compliance. To that end, provided below are a number of best practices that employers may want to consider implementing in their businesses, as appropriate.
Develop and/or update a business continuity plan to ensure that operations do not come to a complete halt. Such a plan can address technology needs for working remotely, instituting a hierarchical communication protocol and identifying specific individuals (and back-ups) with specific responsibilities during interrupted operations (i.e., mail/deliveries, records management, etc.).
Limit business travel to only necessary and essential travel. Where possible, conduct meetings and presentations using videoconferencing technology. Also, strictly prohibit business travel to locations known to have a risk of coronavirus exposure. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has advised against non-essential travel to China, South Korea, Italy and other countries, and has recommended enhanced precautions against travel to certain other countries, including Japan.
Where possible, allow employees to work from home, and encourage employees to stay at home if they do not feel well. Provide employees with the flexibility to tend to their personal health and well-being. Encourage employees to take their work-provided laptops home with them nightly, in case of any unforeseen office closures. Talk to your employees about any equipment or supplies they may need in order for them to effectively carry out their jobs remotely.
Encourage employees to regularly wash their hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. Post signs throughout the workplace with reminders of proper hygiene, including avoiding touching eyes, nose and mouth, covering your nose and mouth with your bent elbow or a tissue when you cough or sneeze, and immediately disposing of used tissues.
Consider adjusting processes and procedures to help avoid non-essential close contact between employees while they are performing day-to-day job duties. Reinforce a policy of maintaining at least a three-foot distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing.
Regularly clean and/or disinfect the workplace, particularly high-traffic areas. Provide hand sanitizer in conspicuous locations, and encourage employees and office visitors to use it regularly.
Communicate with employees, clients, vendors and other third-parties. Let all of your stakeholders know what you are doing to help prevent exposure to the coronavirus. Also consider staying in close contact with your local health officials.
Make sure your most current safety and health plans and policies are communicated to employees and are easily accessible. Consider creating a single source of all relevant information and materials, whether a webpage, app or internal shared drive. Also consider mandating training courses on your current safety and health policies, as well as training courses on any new policies that may be implemented as a result of coronavirus and COVID-19.
Review your current and in-force insurance policies and programs to evaluate the proper level(s) and need(s) of insurance coverage.
Stay up-to-date on the latest official news, information and alerts regarding coronavirus and COVID-19. The CDC has a website dedicated to coronavirus, and employers should visit it often: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html. The World Health Organization also provides regular updates: https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019.
The coronavirus poses a fluid and rapidly evolving situation. However, employers in the US can and should be doing all that they can now, and minute-by-minute, to help ensure the health and safety of their employees. Squire Patton Boggs is dedicated to helping its clients do just that, and has decades of experience helping clients navigate through uncertainties such as those presented by the coronavirus. We are committed to staying ahead of this crisis, and we stand ready to work with you.
10 minute read. Key Takeaways. How technology supports more proactive and efficient safety management - PDF
Download "10 minute read. Key Takeaways. How technology supports more proactive and efficient safety management"
2 Key Takeaways 10 minute read Read this ebook to learn: Tips on what an effective safety program should include Common shortcomings in contractor safety programs How technology supports more proactive and efficient safety management 2
3 Table of Contents Introduction 2016 Desktop Safety Audit Findings Technology to Support Safety Compliance Programs Conclusion 3
4 Introduction A top concern for energy & utilities companies, as well as for the contractors that work for them, is ensuring safety on the worksite. Strong safety programs can prevent worker injuries, and help to protect company reputation, support compliance with government regulations, and avoid unnecessary loss. Ensuring that these programs are effective requires consistent monitoring, as well as attention to any signs of potential program shortcomings and/or failures to follow program requirements. A safety compliance solution from Veriforce includes regular safety audits of clients contractors. In this ebook, we report on desktop audits performed in the year 2016 and highlight key deficiencies noted. The ebook also discusses the role that technology can play in helping companies manage contractor safety compliance more effectively. 4
5 2016 Desktop Safety Audit Findings In Veriforce desktop safety audits, auditors review documentation submitted by contractors on their OSHA and client-specific safety programs and note any findings of program deficiencies. Categories reviewed: HSE Policies & Procedures and Program Training HSE Audits & Inspections* Management Involvement in Safety Programs Medical & Occupational Monitoring 11% Medical & Occupational Monitoring 13% Incident Reporting & Investigation Desktop Audit Findings by Category Percentage of Total Findings for % Subcontractors 33% HSE Policies & Procedures and Program Training Incident Reporting & Investigation Subcontractors 19% Management Involvement in Safety Programs 24% HSE Audits & Inspections *Shown as Inspections/Audits/Observations in H ebook 5
6 Top 5 Areas of Deficiencies Overall, the desktop audits most often found deficiencies in the following 5 areas. The notes describe standard practice against which our auditors assess contractors safety programs. Incident Investigation Incident investigations are a useful tool for uncovering how and why existing risk control measures failed to prevent an incident from occurring, and for identifying and implementing the corrective actions necessary to prevent future incidents. Investigations should include involvement of management and supervisors. Communication of Incidents & Resulting Corrective Actions When an incident occurs, the most effective way to prevent the incident from reoccurring is to analyze all contributing factors, identify the root cause of the incident, and implement all necessary corrective actions required. Suggest changing this to read: Then the incidents and corrective actions should be communicated to employees. HSE Program Evaluation Evaluation of an organization s occupational health and safety program and its effectiveness should be, at a minimum, conducted annually. This requires reviewing, measuring, and documenting all aspects of the health and safety management system. Risk Assessment Performed A risk assessment should be performed during the planning phase of a project. The purpose of a project risk assessment is to identify, classify, and prioritize all anticipated hazards associated with the project and to develop effective procedures/processes to eliminate or mitigate those hazards. Fall Protection Program The purpose of a fall protection program is to establish guidelines to protect all employees engaged in work activities that expose them to potential falls from elevations. Employees should be trained prior to any initial use of a fall protection device or equipment. This includes both awareness level as well as a hands-on portion. The following detailed findings are for each of the audit categories reviewed in
7 Detailed Findings: HSE Policies & Procedures and Program Training The category of HSE (health, safety, and environment) policies & procedures and program training includes two of the top program areas in which deficiencies were found: risk assessment and fall protection. The desktop audits revealed that contractors have risk assessment procedures in place but close to 60% of the time, there is no documentation showing that a correct risk assessment has actually been performed. Standard practice is that a risk assessment be performed at the overall job/project level for all work to be conducted, before workers are ever sent out to the jobsite. The risk assessment is sometimes confused with the daily hazard assessment (JHA), which is the assessment performed at the jobsite on the specific tasks being performed that day. Percentage of Desktop Audits Performed in 2016 Where Deficiencies Found 59% Risk Assessment Performed 58% Fall Protection Program 52% Procedure for JSA / JHA 25% Employee HSE Handbook 23% Language Barrier Policy / Program 15% Fire Prevention / Fire Extinguisher 15% Lockout / Tagout (LOTO) 13% Company New Employee Safety Orientation 11% Short Service Employee Program / Policy 10% Confined Space Program 7
8 Detailed Findings: HSE Audits & Inspections In the category of safety inspections and audits, HSE program evaluation was a top area of concern. Deficiencies in this area were found in over 60% of programs reviewed. Most of the findings in this area involved companies that failed to review the effectiveness of their safety program at least annually. Percentage of Desktop Audits Performed in 2016 Where Deficiencies Found 61% 50% 44% 42% 39% HSE Program Evaluation Tool and Equipment Inspection Program HSE Audit / Inspection Program / Policy Assured Grounding Program / GFCI Operating Equipment Inspections Program 8
9 Detailed Findings: Management Involvement in Safety Programs With regard to management involvement in contractor safety programs, weaknesses were found in the area of communications with employees on safety incidents and related corrective actions in almost three quarters of 2016 audits. Percentage of Desktop Audits Performed in 2016 Where Deficiencies Found It is always a bad thing when incidents occur, but it s even worse if the same incident occurs multiple times. To prevent this, the goal is to: Learn from each incident how the incident can be prevented from reoccurring Share that information with all employees 7% Best Practices 30% Signed Safety & Environmental Mission Statement 33% Safety Meeting Performed 38% Toolbox Talks Performed 73% Communication of Incidents & Resulting Corrective Actions 9
10 Detailed Findings: Medical & Occupational Monitoring In the category of medical and occupational monitoring, close to half of programs reviewed were deficient in their handling of respiratory protection. Auditors found a lack of documentation showing that employees who use respirator protection have gone through the proper examinations and testing before utilizing the equipment. Percentage of Desktop Audits Performed in 2016 Where Deficiencies Found 49% 42% 11% 3% Respitory Protection Training Respirator Medical Evaluation* Fit Testing Conducted* Hearing Conservation Program and Audiograms Conducted* *In H ebook, findings for Respirator Medical Evaluation and Fit Testing Conducted were combined; Hearing Conservation Program and Audiograms Conducted were reported separately 10
11 Detailed Findings: Incident Reporting & Investigations In the category of incident reporting and investigations, over three-quarters of audits revealed incident investigation reports that are missing key information, such as corrective actions and/or management review. This was the most common area of deficiency overall for Percentage of Desktop Audits Performed in 2016 Where Deficiencies Found 79% 30% 13% Incident Investigation First Aid Log Incident Management Program / Policy 11
12 Technology to Support Safety Programs Keeping up with contractor compliance with OSHA and company-specific safety requirements can be a major challenge. Ongoing monitoring through regular audits of contractor safety programs is an important component of a company s contractor safety compliance program that is often missed. The right technology can help energy and utilities companies make use of audit results in combination with other factors to more proactively and efficiently manage their contractors safety performance. An effective technology solution should: Provide a central place to track and maintain contractors current and historical safety stats and related information, including audit results as well as observation reports, questionnaires, contractor policies and other pertinent documents, etc. Simplify contractor prequalification and management and be able to provide real-time visibility into contractors compliance with a specific safety program Enable at-a-glance views of safety scores across contractors and easy identification of similar contractors with better safety records 12
13 WK 1 WK 2 WK 3 WK 4 Technology to Support Safety Programs 75% Provide safety trend reports that show how contractors safety stats compare to the overall industry and highlight potential problem areas Enable easy capture of safety observation reports by inspectors in the field Offer a consolidated view of contractors status across safety, operator qualification (OQ), and drug and alcohol requirements for a more holistic and accurate assessment of readiness to work 13
14 Conclusion While each project and worksite has unique characteristics, our audit findings demonstrate that there s potential for common weaknesses across jobs and sites when it comes to safety. The safety program areas with deficiencies highlighted in this ebook can provide a useful guide to companies on where to direct extra, proactive effort to avoid issues on their own worksites down the road. To learn more about the 2016 Safety Audit Results or to speak with a representative about your safety program, visit veriforce.com or call About Veriforce Solutions Veriforce has built a solid reputation in the energy & utilities industry based on our OQ compliance solution, but many people are not aware that we also help clients and their contractors stay on top of their safety programs. Our comprehensive safety compliance solution combines VeriSource Safety Compliance Management software with audit and training services to give clients a comprehensive view of contractor safety performance and help them continually drive improvements to safety culture across their worksites. Veriforce also works directly with our clients contractors to help them identify and address safety gaps. Our contractor safety audits are key to providing this insight and guidance. Veriforce Veriforce, LLC. All rights reserved 14
Rob LaFon, CAWV Safety Committee Chairman CAWV Safety Awards Program
January 23, 2018 To: From: Re: Safety Director or Person in Charge of Submitting Safety Awards Rob LaFon, CAWV Safety Committee Chairman 2017 CAWV Safety Awards Program The Safety Committee, on behalf
BIDDER INFORMATION QUESTIONNAIRE:
ONE CORPORATE DRIVE, SUITE 600, SHELTON, CONNECTICUT 06484-6211 Susan M. DeLeon Legal Administrator & Compliance Specialist (203) 925-7260 (203) 926-8829 FAX e-mail: susan_deleon@iroquois.com Type of work
ATST Safety, Health, and Environmental Program Plan
Project Documentation Document SPEC-0086 Revision B ATST Safety, Health, and Environmental Program Plan Joseph McMullin ATST Project Manager Steve Shimko ATST Safety Manager Chuck Gessner NOAO/NSO Risk
certificate of recognition Small Business Audit Document / Version 1.0 www.bccsa.ca BC Construction Safety Alliance 2010 BC Construction Safety Alliance (BCCSA) The BC Construction Safety Alliance (BCCSA)
Employer Safety and Health Program Self-Assessment EMPLOYER SAFETY AND HEALTH. Program Self-Assessment S April S-866 April 2018.
EMPLOYER SAFETY AND HEALTH Program S-8666 April 2018 S-866 April 2018 Page 1 We strongly encourage you to use SAIF s other safety and health guides as you work through this process. They provide practical
Best Practice for SSHE
(CIM) Best Practice for SSHE STEP CHANGE IN SAFETY Share Fair June 2010 Stephane A. Gri 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 EMPC Work-hour Distribution 1 EMPC TRIR Comparison 0,9 0,8 0,7 0,6 0,5 0,4 0,3 Emp TRIR Con
Contractor Environment Health and Safety Management Best Practice (2007) Contractor EH&S Management Best Practice (2007) A. INTRODUCTION Many construction Owners employ contract personnel for a wide range
COR & Small Business. OH&S Tools & Resources
COR & Small Business OH&S Tools & Resources 1 Objective Provide high value, firm driven health and safety solutions for all sizes of workplaces 2 Key Concepts Self guided programs Focus on essentials of
Owner: Judy Brinkman Site Director
Title: Contractor Management Procedure Site Function: Ecology, Health & Safety Procedure No.: 4.03 Page: 1 of 12 Kankakee Reviewed: 08/16/2016 Effective: 08/16/2016 Supersedes: 10/2/09 Preparer: Jodie
3: CONTRACTOR HSMS COMPLIANCE AUDIT TOOL
Title: This compliance tool is to be performed on Contractor HSMS plans. It can be used throughout the duration when the contractor submits the generic/specific WHS plan prior to arrival and desktop audit
QUALITY AND SAFETY ASSURANCE AND CONTROL PROGRAM (2016/17)
QUALITY AND SAFETY ASSURANCE AND CONTROL PROGRAM (2016/17) 1 Introduction NCSG Crane and Heavy Haul Services Ltd. and its affiliated companies (NCSG) are committed to being an industry leader in providing
Oman LNG LLC Pre-Qualification Questionnaire GA Call-Off Contract for Supply of Furniture
Oman LNG LLC Pre-Qualification Questionnaire GA-17-906 Call-Off Contract for Supply of Furniture Pre-Qualification Questionnaire Page 1 of 5 GUIDELINES Response to this questionnaire shall be completed
Safety Supervisor Safety Manager Environmental Manager Field Supervisor
Safety Supervisor Safety Manager Environmental Manager Field Supervisor TROY BENOIT (C.O.S.S., OSHA 30 CONSTRUCTION, OSHA 30 GENERAL INDUSTRY, 40 HR. TRAIN THE TRAINER.) 337-247-0215 Regions Worked Expertise
Process Safety Management 2008 Update & Review. As if there were safety in stupidity alone. Thoreau
Process Safety Management 2008 Update & Review As if there were safety in stupidity alone. Thoreau PSM A look back to the 90 s OSHA s PSM Standard became effective in 1992. Greatest concern in Meat Industry
Facilities Management Service Review of External Cleaning Contracts
GM23.18 REPORT FOR ACTION Facilities Management Service Review of External Cleaning Contracts Date: October 26, 2017 To: Government Management Committee From: Deputy City Manager, Internal Corporate Services
BP OIL -- TOLEDO REFINERY Document Type: Program Effective Date: September 1, 2017 Owner: Robert Myak Toledo Refinery Contractor Management Program Auth. By: (Signature on file) Reference No.: Rev. No.:
Safety and Technology A 21 st Century Approach to Managing Safety
Safety and Technology A 21 st Century Approach to Managing Safety Ryan Pollack, CHST Manager Health, Safety, Environmental Who am I? BS Emergency Management University of Akron (2006) AAS Fire Protection
HEALTH AND SAFETY MANUAL Title: Concrete and Masonry Construction Approved by: Greg Savoy Rev. 1/1/08 1 Purpose/Scope: This program sets forth safety requirements and hazard controls for concrete or grout
Considering industry costs and benefits for Safety Management, can we do better?
Considering industry costs and benefits for Safety Management, can we do better? www.epsc.org Richard Gowland Technical Director EPSC EPSC EPSC is an Industry funded association of approximately 40 chemical
LAUSD Construction Safety Program Safety Boot Camp
LAUSD Construction Safety Program Safety Boot Camp 2018 John E. McEvoy, CHST Facilities Services Division Construction Safety Office 333 Beaudry Ave, 19 th Floor, Room 19-116, Los Angeles, CA 90017 Office:
H&S007 Level 2 and 3 Risk Health and Safety Contractor Approval Request
Private Bag 9023 Whangarei 0148 New Zealand T: 09 430 4200 0800 WDC INFO 0800 932 463 F: 09 438 7632 W: www.wdc.govt.nz E: mailroom@wdc.govt.nz H&S007 Level 2 and 3 Risk Health and Safety Contractor Approval
Process Safety Management of Highly Hazardous & Explosive Chemicals. Incident Investigation, Compliance Audits & Trade Secrets
Process Safety Management of Highly Hazardous & Explosive Chemicals Incident Investigation, Compliance Audits & Trade Secrets Incident Investigation Incident Investigation 1910.119(m) The employer shall
Unit HSP9: Develop and implement health and safety audit systems
Unit HSP9: Develop and implement health and safety audit systems This unit is for people with a role which involves: evaluating the compliance of the health and safety management system of your organisation
MANAGING CONTRACTORS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
MANAGING CONTRACTORS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE AN OVERVIEW OF IFC S GOOD PRACTICE NOTE RAYMI C. BELTRAN SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST - EMENA JANUARY 25, 2018 PRESENTER: RAYMI BELTRAN Raymi
VPP Steering Committee 12 July 2017 UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VPP Steering Committee 12 July 2017 UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY Agenda VPP Dept update MCCS Mishap rate trend(?) What role do contractors play in VPP? UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY VPP by
APPENDIX 4 Tool Box Talk Procedure Purpose Delivery of Effective Tool Box Talks, in which: Supervisors communicate hazards and controls to the work team prior to commencing a task, People discuss and understand
Steam Valve Locked Out in Wrong Position
Quality Work Plan for Quality Control Inspector Arkansas Weatherization Assistance Program Name. Abilities. Training Provided Rating Recommended (K)
Quality Work Plan for Quality Control Inspector Arkansas Weatherization Assistance Program Name Content: A Job Analysis for a Quality Control Inspection Years of Experience in this Capacity Education Level
Offshore and Onshore Standardized Safety Questionnaire
Standardized Safety Questionnaire (SSQ) Offshore and Onshore Copyright 2014-PEC Safety 2014 Standardized Safety Questionnaire STANDARDIZED SAFETY QUESTIONNAIRE The Operator Development Team (ODT) Standardized
Safety. Electronic Permit to Work System / Integrated Safe System of Work. Engica Technology Systems International
Product Ref: S20120314 Engica Technology Systems International One Trinity, Broad Chare, Quayside, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 2HF, UK Tel: +44 (0)191 201 7777 Fax: +44 (0)191 201 7778 Houston Technology Center,
Your Company s Name. Paste Your Logo Above. 1 Page
Your Company s Name Your company s address Your company s Phone No. Your Company s Fax Your Company s email Your Company s website Effective Date: Revision Date: Paste Your Logo Above 1 Page Index 1 2
SUBCONTRACTOR SAFETY QUALIFICATION FORM
SUBCONTRACTOR SAFETY QUALIFICATION FORM Company Name: NAICS / SIC #: Address: Type of Business: Type of Services provided to Hulcher: Contact Person: Phone # : Email: Title: Date: PART I: CONTRACTOR S
IOGP 423 revision update. IAGC / IOGP Joint HSE & Security Forum Houston, 19 th April, 2016
IOGP 423 revision update IAGC / IOGP Joint HSE & Security Forum Houston, 19 th April, 2016 Status of IOGP 423 Version 3.0 Currently with IOGP secretariat for final review and edits Will go to IOGP Safety
OSHA Compliance Group, Inc. OSHA Safety Manual (Injury Illness Prevention Program) OSHA Standards requires EVERY employer to have in writing an effective injury and illness prevention program that must
Cover Your A$$ Real Time Quality Assurance at the Job Site
Cover Your A$$ Real Time Quality Assurance at the Job Site 2 Table of Contents I. Formalized Quality Management USACE Phases of Control ISO 9000 Standards II. Inspections: The Never Ending Paper Trail
5 053, LA 7 e c i n Eu Maple 0 t s e 7-510 5 161 W 4 ) : (337 Phone T PMEN O L E D DEV N A L & WORK RVICES E T I S E CTION S S U R S T A S G R N TAINE OIL & ERCIAL CO N O C M GE COM TORA L HAULING S &
Consensus & Common Ground Question & Answer
Best Safety Practices for the Construction Industry 01 February 2010 Today s Agenda Best Practices Merit Construction (GC) Best Practices Seedorff Masonry (Subcontractor) Implementation & Execution On-the-Jobsite
Some 1 million Vietnam veterans are enrolled in the VA health system, and based on one year’s data, 5,484 veterans have been diagnosed with bladder cancer, 15,983 suffer from hypothyroidism and approximately 1,833 have Parkinson’s-like symptoms. Additionally, 307,324 Vietnam veterans in the VA healthcare system have high blood pressure.
VA recommends that veterans who have an illness they believe is related to Agent Orange exposure file a claim; they are considered on a case-by-case basis if the illness is not on the presumptive condition list.
Editorial policies - Research Involving Human Embryos | Springer | Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
SpringerLink shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Research involving animals and their data or biological material
On this page
Research involving animals and their data or biological material
Research involving animals and their data or biological material
The welfare of animals (vertebrate and higher invertebrate) used for research, education and testing must be respected. Authors should supply detailed information on the ethical treatment of their animals in their submission. For that purpose they may use the ARRIVE checklist which is designed to be used when submitting manuscripts describing animal research. We recommend that authors consult the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Guidelines for the Euthanasia of Animals (2020), as a comprehensive resource for guidance on veterinary best practice for the anesthesia and euthanasia of animals.
For studies involving client-owned animals, authors must also document informed consent from the client or owner and adherence to a high standard (best practice) of veterinary care.
Authors are recommended to comply with:
The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Policy Statement on Research Involving Species at Risk of Extinction and consult the IUCN red list index of threatened species Convention on the Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
When reporting results authors should indicate:
… that the studies have been approved by a research ethics committee at the institution or practice at which the studies were conducted. Please provide the name of ethics committee and relevant permit number;… whether the legal requirements or guidelines in the country and/or state or province for the care and use of animals have been followed.
Researchers from countries without any legal requirements or guidelines voluntarily should refer to the following sites for guidance:
The Basel Declaration describes fundamental principles of using animals in biomedical research
The International Council for Laboratory Animal Science (ICLAS) provides ethical guidelines for researchers as well as editors and reviewers
The Association for the study of Animal Behaviour describes ethical guidelines for the treatment of animals in research and teaching
The International Association of Veterinary Editors’ Consensus Author Guidelines on Animal Ethics provide guidelines for authors on animal ethics and welfare.
Researchers may wish to consult the most recent (ethical) guidelines available from relevant taxon-oriented professional societies.
If a study was granted exemption or did not require ethics approval, this should also be detailed in the manuscript.
Summary of requirements
The above should be summarized in a statement and included in a section entitled “Declarations” before the reference list. Other declarations include Funding, Conflicts of interest/competing interests, Ethics approval, Consent, Data and/or Code availability and Authors’ contribution statements.
Please see the various examples of wording below and revise/customize the sample statements according to your own needs.
Provide “Ethics approval” as a heading (see template)
Examples ethics approval obtained:
All procedures involving animals were in compliance with the European Community Council Directive of 24 November 1986, and ethical approval was granted by the Kocaeli University Ethics Committee (No. 29 12 2014, Kocaeli, Turkey).
All procedures performed in the study were in accordance with the ARVO Statement for Use of Animals in Ophthalmic Vision and Research. The ethical principles established by the National Institutes of Health Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (NIH Publications No. 8523, revised 2011) were followed. The research protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee on Animal Use (Protocol No. 06174/14) of FCAV/Unesp, Jaboticabal.
This study involved a questionnaire-based survey of farmers as well as blood sampling from their animals. The study protocol was assessed and approved by Haramaya University, research and extension office. Participants provided their verbal informed consent for animal blood sampling as well as for the related survey questions. Collection of blood samples was carried out by veterinarians adhering to the regulations and guidelines on animal husbandry and welfare.
All brown bear captures and handling were approved by the Ethical Committee on Animal Experiments, Uppsala, Sweden (Application C18/15) and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in compliance with Swedish laws and regulations.
The ethics governing the use and conduct of experiments on animals were strictly observed, and the experimental protocol was approved by the University of Maiduguri Senate committee on Medical Research ethics. Proper permit and consent were obtained from the Maiduguri abattoir management, before the faecal samples of the cattle and camels slaughtered in this abattoir were used for this experiment.
Examples ethics approval not required:
No approval of research ethics committees was required to accomplish the goals of this study because experimental work was conducted with an unregulated invertebrate species.
As the trappings of small mammals were conducted as part of regular pest control measures in accordance with the NATO Standardized Agreement 2048 "Deployment Pest and Vector Surveillance and Control ", no approval by an ethics committee was required.
All experiments have been conducted as per the guidelines of the Institutional Animal Ethics Committee, Department of Zoology, Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. However, the insect species used in this study is reared for commercial production of raw silk materials, as a part of agro-based industry. Therefore, use of this animal in research does not require ethical clearance. We have obtained permission from the office of Research officer sericulture, Baripada, Orissa, India for the provision of infrastructure and support for rearing of silkworm both in indoor and outdoor conditions related to our study to promote sericulture practices.
If any of the sections are not relevant to your manuscript, please include the heading and write 'Not applicable' for that section.
Authors are responsible for correctness of the statements provided in the manuscript. See also Authorship Principles. The Editor-in-Chief reserves the right to reject submissions that do not meet the guidelines described in this
Back to top of Research involving animals and their data or biological material
Editorial Policies
Appeals and Complaints
Authorship Principles
Biosafety and Biosecurity
Citations
Competing Interests
Complementary and Alternative Medicine Standards for Research
Confidentiality
Corrections and Retractions
Data Availability Statement
Ethical responsibilities of authors
Informed Consent
Portable Peer Review
Predatory Journals and References
Preprint Sharing
Policy, Process and Guidance for Peer Reviewers
Removal of Published Content
Research involving animals, and their data or biological material
Research Involving Human Participants, their Data or Biological Material
Research Involving Human Embryos
Research involving palaeontological and geological material
Sex and Gender in Research (SAGER Guidelines)
Standards of Reporting
Utilization of plants, algae, fungi
Resources
Statistics Guide
Interactive course
Springer’s guide on publishing ethics
Book and Proceedings policies
Your ORCID iD – As unique as you
This persistent ID distinguishes you from every other researcher. Automated linkages between you and your publications or reviews ensure that your work is recognized. Your achievements will never be confused with a colleague’s work.
Web of Science Reviewer Recognition Service
Our partnership with the Web of Science Reviewer Recognition Service makes it easy for your journal's reviewers to showcase their peer review activities. Learn how they can get recognition for their reviews on their Web of Science Reviewer Profile via our submission systems.
You are here: Scientific Experts > Switzerland > Russell > Aaron P Russell
FASEB J 19:986-8. 2005
PGC-1alpha and exercise: important partners in combating insulin resistance
Curr Diabetes Rev 1:175-81. 2005
J Cardiopulm Rehabil 24:332-9. 2004
Lipotoxicity: the obese and endurance-trained paradox
Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord 28:S66-71. 2004
Department of Medical Biochemistry, University of Geneva Medical Center, 1206 Geneva, Switzerland
J Clin Endocrinol Metab 88:5921-6. 2003
Lipid peroxidation in skeletal muscle of obese as compared to endurance-trained humans: a case of good vs. bad lipids?
Clinique Romande de réadaptation SUVA Care, Case postale 352, 1951 Sion, Switzerland
FEBS Lett 551:104-6. 2003
Department of Medical Biochemistry, University of Geneva, CMU, Switzerland
Pflugers Arch 445:563-9. 2003
Philippe Cettour-Rose
Elisabetta Bobbioni Harsch
Marita A Wallace
Antony J Buchala
Carla D'Ascenzio
..Because of the important role of PGC-1alpha in the control of energy metabolism and insulin sensitivity, it is seen as a candidate factor in the etiology of type 2 diabetes and a drug target for its therapeutic treatment...
..These may be important players in the development of insulin resistance and understanding their activation and expression in both obese and ETr humans should assist in understanding how and why IMTGs become lipotoxic...
..Hence, obesity results in an increased level of IMTG peroxidation while ET has a protective effect on IMTG peroxidation. This suggests a link between the lipid peroxidation/IMTG ratio and insulin resistance...
Regulation of STARS and its downstream targets suggest a novel pathway involved in human skeletal muscle hypertrophy and atrophy
Clinique Romande de réadaptation SUVA Care, Sion 1951, Switzerland
J Physiol 587:1795-803. 2009
..Our results show that the STARS signalling pathway is responsive to changes in skeletal muscle loading and appears to play a role in both human skeletal muscle hypertrophy and atrophy...
Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Switzerland
Diabetes 54:751-6. 2005
Old and new determinants in the regulation of energy expenditure
J Endocrinol Invest 25:862-6. 2002
..The components of energy expenditure are basal metabolism, exercise induced thermogenesis and adaptive thermogenesis. In this short review we shall discuss the main determinants of adaptive thermogenesis...
Dept of Human Physiology, Pennington Biomedical Research Center, 6400 Perkins Road, Baton Rouge, LA 70808, USA
Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 289:E1023-9. 2005
..05). In conclusion, glucose ingestion during exercise decreases the expression of genes involved in lipid metabolism rather than increasing genes involved in carbohydrate metabolism...
Division of Physiology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Fribourg, Chemin du Musee 5, CH 1700 Fribourg, Switzerland
FASEB J 20:1751-3. 2006
c o Venetian Institute of Molecular Medicine, Via Orus, 2 35129 Padova, Italy E mail
Brain 130:2715-24. 2007
School of Exercise and Nutrition Sciences, Deakin University, 221 Burwood Highway 3125, Australia
J Physiol 576:923-33. 2006
..We demonstrate, for the first time in human skeletal muscle, that the regulation of Akt and its downstream signalling pathways GSK-3beta, mTOR and Foxo1 are associated with both the skeletal muscle hypertrophy and atrophy processes...
Beta(1)/beta(2)/beta(3)-adrenoceptor knockout mice are obese and cold-sensitive but have normal lipolytic responses to fasting
FEBS Lett 530:37-40. 2002
..Hence, beta-adrenergic signalling is essential for the resistance to obesity and cold, but not for the lipolytic response to fasting...
Needed: A Better Understanding of Heart Disease and Exercise
Although heart disease is the number one killer of both men and women in the United States, only 20 percent of adults know how much exercise is needed for a healthy heart, according to a survey by the Cleveland Clinic.
The survey also showed 40 percent of Americans are exercising less than that recommended amount – 2.5 hours a week of moderate aerobic exercise.
According to a news release from the clinic, the most commonly cited reason for preventing adequate exercise was work (41 percent), followed by being too tired (37 percent) and obligations with family and friends (28 percent). As for gender differences, the survey found that men are considerably less likely than women to let things get in the way of their exercise routine, with more than one-quarter of them saying nothing prevents them from exercising.
Researchers also said that there was a significant misunderstanding among adults: only one-third knew that someone with heart disease needs to exercise the same amount as someone without heart disease.
Weight is the biggest motivating factor to exercise. According to those who exercise weekly, 51 percent say that losing or maintaining weight is the No. 1 motivator. Only 32 percent of Americans say they exercise to benefit their hearts.
Calories can be a mystery. Americans don't know how much to burn. Despite most Americans exercising for weight purposes, the survey found that 31 percent of those surveyed know they need to burn or cut out 500 calories from their diet to lose one pound a week.
Cardiac rehabilitation isn't common enough. The benefits of cardiac rehabilitation are known, the news release said, although the process is not used enough. Most Americans (82 percent) realize that cardiac rehabilitation can reduce mortality rates from heart disease by about half. However, typically less than a third of patients prescribed cardiac rehab complete it. Cardiac rehab is a medically supervised program designed to improve health by identifying and reducing risk factors that lead to cardiovascular disease. It includes emphasis on appropriate exercise and diet for heart patients.
Tests may be over-emphasized by patients. While it's true that those with heart disease should talk to their doctor about starting an exercise program, most Americans don't understand which patients actually need stress tests. Eighty-one percent of those surveyed incorrectly thought that someone with high cholesterol needs an exercise stress test before starting an exercise program.
"Heart disease kills about 1 in 4 Americans, but many of these deaths could be prevented by simple lifestyle changes like exercising and improving diet," Nissen said. "Americans know exercise is important, but most don't realize just how far a little exercise can go – potentially reducing the risk of dying from heart disease by as much as 40 to 50 percent. It's worth making time for it."
Side Effects of Aminohippurate Sodium (Aminohippurate), Warnings, Uses
Generic Name: aminohippurate
Brand Name: Aminohippurate Sodium
home drugs a-z list Aminohippurate Sodium(Aminohippurate) side effects drug center
Aminohippurate Side Effects Center
Aminohippurate sodium is sodium salt of para-aminohippuric acid used to measure effective renal plasma flow (ERPF). Common side effects of aminohippurate sodium include:
nerve and muscle disturbances
cramps, or
a sensation of warmth or the feeling of the need to defecate or urinate during or shortly following initiation of infusion
Dosage of aminohippurate sodium is individualized and determined by a physician. Aminohippurate sodium may interact with sulfonamides, procaine, thiazolesulfone, and probenecid. Tell your doctor all medications and supplements you use. During pregnancy, aminohippurate sodium should be used only if prescribed. It is unknown if this drug passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breastfeeding.
Our aminohippurate sodium Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication.
Aminohippurate Professional Information
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, vasomotor disturbances, flushing, tingling, nausea, vomiting, and cramps may occur. Patients may have a sensation of warmth or the desire to defecate or urinate during or shortly following initiation of infusion.
Read the entire FDA prescribing information for Aminohippurate (Aminohippurate)
Related Resources for Aminohippurate
© Aminohippurate Patient Information is supplied by Cerner Multum, Inc. and Aminohippurate Consumer information is supplied by First Databank, Inc., used under license and subject to their respective copyrights.
To improve the treatment of children with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), investigators have developed a sophisticated way to analyze the microbial and metabolic contents of the gut. A report in The Journal of Molecular Diagnostics, published by Elsevier, describes how a new battery of tests enables researchers to distinguish patients with IBS from healthy children and identifies correlations between certain microbes and metabolites with abdominal pain.
“This research highlights the importance of the microbiome-gut-brain axis and our understanding of chronic abdominal pain. Development of new disease classifiers based on microbiome data enables precision diagnostics to be developed for IBS and similar disorders. Although other studies have found differences in the gut microbiomes of patients with IBS, this study is the first to combine deep microbiome analysis with development of new diagnostic strategies,” explained James Versalovic, MD, PhD, of the Department of Pathology & Immunology at Baylor College of Medicine and the Department of Pathology at Texas Children’s Hospital, Houston, TX, USA. The term microbiome refers to the genetic material of all the microbes — bacteria, fungi, protozoa, and viruses — that live on and inside the human body.
Samples for this study were obtained from 23 preadolescent children with IBS (age 7 to 12 years) and 22 healthy controls. Participants were asked to maintain daily pain and stool diaries for two weeks and to provide stool (fecal) samples.
Investigators found that there are differences in bacterial composition, bacterial genes, and fecal metabolites in children with IBS compared to healthy controls. In addition to identifying correlations of these factors with abdominal pain, they generated a highly accurate classifier using metagenomic and metabolic markers that distinguishes children with IBS from healthy controls with 80 percent or greater accuracy. This classifier assesses specific metabolites, types of bacteria, functional pathways, and other factors. “This disease classifier represents a significant advance in the diagnosis of IBS and could be clinically impactful,” commented Dr. Versalovic.
This microbiome-based classifier can potentially help identify subpopulations of children with IBS that are more likely to benefit from microbiome-related therapies including diet modification, while guiding others to alternative appropriate treatment plans. The investigators also provide insights into how specific microbiome-related findings may be related to abdominal pain, thus opening up potential novel treatment approaches.
A chronic disease that is evaluated clinically can be stratified in the future based on differences in the composition and function of the intestinal microbiome. Dr. Versalovic envisions that these findings will begin to usher in an era of metagenomics-based, data-driven precision diagnostics for IBS and other functional gastrointestinal disorders. “Microbiome-based diagnosis and disease stratification of patients with IBS means that we create hope for tailored nutrition and targeted therapies in the future, leading to better outcomes for patients with chronic disease,” noted Dr. Versalovic.
IBS is a disruptive gastrointestinal condition characterized by bloating, changes in bowel habits, and pain that affects up to 20 percent of the world’s population (children and adults). Increasing evidence indicates that the onset and symptoms of IBS are related to the gut microbiome. Deficiencies or excesses of specific gut microbes or metabolites may contribute to the disease process of IBS.
J.P. Busman | ResearchGate
J.P. Busman
Are you J.P. Busman?
Available from: Enno van der Velde
Reliability of the prediction of the location of the culprit lesion from the ECG in totally occluded arteries in case of single vessel disease
W.A. Dijk, A.C. Maan, N.H.J.J. van der Putten, E.T. van der Velde, C.A. Swenne, R. Hoekema, W.R.M. Dassen, J.P. Busman
[hide abstract]ABSTRACT: This paper deals with the reliability of algorithms predicting the location of the culprit lesion in a totally occluded coronary artery from a 12 lead ECG recording. Four commercial ECG analysis programs and two specific algorithms were evaluated. Five hundred well documented cases were used for testing. Evaluation of the results reveals that all algorithms perform suboptimal.
W.A. Dijk, R. Hoekema, M. van der Vlugt, W.R.M. Dassen, E.T. van der Velde, N.H.J.J. van der Putten, C.A.M. Hooijschuur, J.P. Busman
[hide abstract]ABSTRACT: This paper describes the AMOC project which aims at the improvement of patient throughput in the outpatient clinics. Indicators describing the workflow were extracted and serve as a base for a so called continuous improvement model. As pro actively monitoring the workflow turned out to be the best tool to optimize the throughput, a computer system was developed to present in a ldquodashboardrdquo like manner the state of the indicators.
T. Svilaas, W.A. Dijk, J.P. Busman, W.R.M. Dassen, R. de Vos, F. Zijlstra
[hide abstract]ABSTRACT: This paper describes the effects of a treatment protocol for patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction, which was introduced in 2004. The setup of the new approach is described. The principle goal is to minimize time between onset of symptoms associated with acute myocardial infarction and reperfusion through primary percutaneous coronary intervention. Preliminary results are discussed
Towards an electronic patient record for cardiology: the issue of integrity of patient data
R. Hoekema, G. Weijers, N.G. Janssen, J.P. Busman, W.A. Dijk, E.T. van der Velde
[hide abstract]ABSTRACT: In the Cardiology department, many different sources of clinical information are used in the daily routine. Integration of these (digital) sources into an electronic patient record is a logical step. One of the issues regarding the integration of data is the integrity of patient data: there shouldn't be any mis-registration of patient related data such as patient ID, patient name. To achieve integrity of patient data, we have now created a method to automatically transfer patient related data from one system to the other, mostly by using industry standards for communication of these data. With the integrity of these data secured, we can now proceed with the integration of the data into one system
LSG Imaging is the first in California and one of the first ten in the U.S. to offer the newest wide-angle 3D mammogram for earlier cancer detection. Siemens newest breast imaging technology was FDA approved in March of 2018.
A screening mammography program that begins when a woman is 40 and continues on an annual basis is the most effective for reducing mortality rates, according to a study published in the September issue of the Journal of the American College of Radiology.
ON MAY 30, the American Cancer Society announced a change in its guidelines for colon cancer screening. The ACS now recommends starting screening at age 45, instead of 50.
This post was contributed by Judy Yee, MD, chair of the American College of Radiology Colon Cancer Committee, on the “The Voice of Radiology” blog.
