risk major Publications | PubFacts
256,918 results match your criteria risk major
Page 1 of 8,564
Pauline Salamin Céline Deslarzes-Dubuis Alban Longchamp Séverine Petitprez Jean-Pierre Venetz Jean-Marc Corpataux Sébastien Déglise
Department of Vascular Surgery, Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV) and University of Lausanne, Suisse. Electronic address:
Background: In the recent years, an increased use of marginal donors and grafts and a growing prevalence of peripheral arterial disease in the recipients have been observed. Meanwhile, the open surgical technique for kidney transplantation has not changed. The aim of this study is to analyze all surgical complications occurring in the first year after kidney transplant and to determine potential predictive risk factors. Read More
Outcomes of Endovascular Aneurysm Repair with Adjunctive Stenting.
Timothy Foreman Anthony Bitar Jamie B Smith Todd R Vogel Jonathan Bath
Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO. Electronic address:
Objective: Endovascular aneurysm repair is the standard of care for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, however data regarding adjunctive stenting at the time of endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) are limited. The study aims to evaluate outcomes of patients undergoing EVAR with and without adjunctive stenting.
Methods: Patients undergoing EVAR with stenting (EVAR-S) and without stenting (EVAR) (2008 to 2017) were selected from Cerner HealthFacts® database using ICD-9 diagnosis and procedure codes. Read More
Social media's influence on adolescents' food choices: A mixed studies systematic literature review.
Adam J Kucharczuk Tracy L Oliver Elizabeth B Dowdell
Appetite 2021 Oct 20:105765. Epub 2021 Oct 20.
Villanova University, M. Louise Fitzpatrick College of Nursing, 800 E. Lancaster Avenue, Villanova, PA, 19085, USA. Electronic address:
Over 90% of adolescents have at least one social media account, and their presence on social media continues to grow. Food and beverage brands capitalize on this trend by marketing their products on social media to adolescents. Depending on the nutrition value of the products being marketed, social media advertisements' influence may contribute to the risk of developing unfavorable health outcomes such as obesity, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes. Read More
Temporal-spatial variations, source apportionment, and ecological risk of trace elements in sediments of water-level-fluctuation zone in the Three Gorges Reservoir, China.
Siyuan Zhang Weiru Wang Fengwen Wang Daijun Zhang Neil L Rose
Environmental Change Research Centre, University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
The Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR) plays a crucial role in providing electricity for mega-cities across China. However, since the impoundment was completed in 2006, attention to environmental concerns has also been intensive. In order to determine the distribution, sources, and pollution status of trace elements in the water fluctuation zone of the TGR following ten years of repeated "submergence" and "exposure", we systematically collected 16 paired surface sediment samples (n = 32) covering the entire main body of the TGR in March 2018 (following 6 months of submergence) and September 2018 (after 6 months of exposure), and quantitatively analyzed 13 elements (e. Read More
Yuanxin Zhong Li An Yufeng Wang Li Yang Qingjiu Cao
Peking University Sixth Hospital, Peking University Institute of Mental Health, NHC Key Laboratory of Mental Health (Peking University), National Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders (Peking University Sixth Hospital), Huayuan Bei Road 51, Haidian District, Beijing, 100191, China.
Impaired sensorimotor circuits have been suggested in Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). NRXN1, highly expressed in cortex and cerebellum, was one of the candidate risk genes for ADHD, while its effects on sensorimotor circuits are unclear. In this content, we aimed to investigate the differential brain effects as functions of the cumulative genetic effects of NRXN1 variants in ADHD and healthy controls (HCs), identifying a potential pathway mapping from NRXN1, sensorimotor circuits, to ADHD. Read More
Descriptive and risk factor analysis of infantile cataracts: National Birth Defects Prevention Study, 2000-2011.
Marine Nalbandyan Meredith M Howley Christopher M Cunniff Emily Leckman-Westin Marilyn L Browne
Am J Med Genet A 2021 Oct 23. Epub 2021 Oct 23.
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University at Albany, Rensselaer, New York, USA.
Using National Birth Defects Prevention Study (NBDPS) data, we sought to estimate birth prevalence, describe clinical characteristics, and examine risk factors for infantile cataracts. We calculated birth prevalence using the numbers of NBDPS-eligible cataract cases and live births in the study area. We described case infants by the presence of associated ipsilateral eye defects (IEDs) and non-eye-related major birth defects. Read More
Unplanned admission to pediatric intensive care after general anesthesia: A seven-year retrospective cohort study in a tertiary children's hospital.
Kaoru Tsuboi Jun Ninagawa Norihiko Tsuboi Satoshi Nakagawa Yasuyuki Suzuki
Paediatr Anaesth 2021 Oct 22. Epub 2021 Oct 22.
Department of Critical Care and Anesthesia, National Center for Child Health and Development, 2-10-1 Okura, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo, 157-8535, Japan.
Background: Thorough preoperative risk assessment and planning is key to improving patient safety in the perioperative period. Analysis of unplanned ICU admissions after general anesthesia has been validated as a measure of patient safety and its use as a quality initiative is recommended in many countries.
Aims: The aims of this study were to determine the reasons for unplanned ICU admission, required interventions, and outcomes after general anesthesia in our hospital, as well as predictability and preventability of the events that led to admission with a view to improving anesthetic management. Read More
Activation of the adipocyte CREB/CRTC pathway in obesity.
Young-Sil Yoon Weiyi Liu Sam Van de Velde Shigenobu Matsumura Ezra Wiater Ling Huang Marc Montminy
Commun Biol 2021 Oct 22;4(1):1214. Epub 2021 Oct 22.
Peptide Biology Laboratories, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA, 92037, USA.
Obesity is a major risk factor for the development of type II diabetes. Increases in adipose tissue mass trigger insulin resistance via the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines from adipocytes and macrophages. CREB and the CRTC coactivators have been found to promote insulin resistance in obesity, although the mechanism is unclear. Read More
Nerea Requena-Ocaña María Flores-Lopez Alicia San Martín Nuria García-Marchena María Pedraz Juan Jesús Ruiz Antonia Serrano Juan Suarez Francisco Javier Pavón Fernando Rodríguez de Fonseca Pedro Araos
Sci Rep 2021 Oct 22;11(1):20928. Epub 2021 Oct 22.
Laboratorio de Medicina Regenerativa (LMR), Unidad de Gestión Clínica de Salud Mental, Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Málaga (IBIMA), Hospital Regional Universitario de Málaga, Avda. Carlos Haya 82, sótano, 29010, Málaga, Spain.
Gender significantly influences sociodemographic, medical, psychiatric and addiction variables in cocaine outpatients. Educational level may be a protective factor showing less severe addictive disorders, longer abstinence periods, and better cognitive performance. The aim was to estimate gender-based differences and the influence of educational level on the clinical variables associated with cocaine use disorder (CUD). Read More
Rhonda Walters Elise Miller Allison Campolo Manal M Gabriel Paul Shannon Cindy McAnally Monica Crary
Optom Vis Sci 2021 Oct 22. Epub 2021 Oct 22.
R&D Microbiology, Alcon Research, LLC, Fort Worth, Texas (all authors).
Significance: This investigation examines the effectiveness of several common contact lens solutions in the disinfection of Acanthamoeba, which causes a serious eye infection most often resulting from dysfunctional or improper use of contact lens products.
Purpose: Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK) is an eye infection caused by a free-living amoeba, which can lead to extensive corneal damage and frequently blindness. AK is linked with contact lens use combined with noncompliance with contact lens care cleaning regimens. Read More
Tony B Williams Christopher J Burke Stephan Nebe Kerstin Preuschoff Ernst Fehr Philippe N Tobler
Zurich Center for Neuroeconomics, Department of Economics, University of Zurich 8006 Zurich, Switzerland;
Decisions are based on the subjective values of choice options. However, subjective value is a theoretical construct and not directly observable. Strikingly, distinct theoretical models competing to explain how subjective values are assigned to choice options often make very similar behavioral predictions, which poses a major difficulty for establishing a mechanistic, biologically plausible explanation of decision-making based on behavior alone. Read More
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) global pandemic continues to spread worldwide with approximately 216 million confirmed cases and 4.49 million deaths to date. Intensive efforts are ongoing to combat this disease by suppressing viral transmission, understanding its pathogenesis, developing vaccination strategies, and identifying effective therapeutic targets. Read More
Parkinsonism and cerebrovascular disease.
Manisha Narasimhan Raymond Schwartz Glenda Halliday
J Neurol Sci 2021 Oct 6:120011. Epub 2021 Oct 6.
Brain and Mind Centre and Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
The relationship between cerebrovascular disease and parkinsonism is commonly seen in everyday clinical practice but remains ill-defined and under-recognised with little guidance for the practising neurologist. We attempt to define this association and to illustrate key clinical, radiological and pathological features of the syndrome of Vascular Parkinsonism (VaP). VaP is a major cause of morbidity in the elderly associated with falls, hip fractures and cognitive impairment. Read More
Risk Stratification and Management of Extracranial Carotid Artery Disease.
Anna K Krawisz Brett J Carroll Eric A Secemsky
Cardiol Clin 2021 Nov;39(4):539-549
Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Center for Outcomes Research in Cardiology, Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 375 Longwood Avenue, 4th Floor, Boston, MA 02215, USA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 185 Pilgrim Road, Palmer Building, 4th Floor, Boston, MA 02215, USA. Electronic address:
Stroke is the fifth leading cause of death in the United States and is a leading cause of disability. Extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis is a major cause of ischemic stroke, as it is estimated to cause 8% to 15% of ischemic strokes. It is critical to improve our strategies for stroke prevention and treatment in order to reduce the burden of this disease. Read More
Protective Effects of Salicylic Acid and Calcium Chloride on Sage Plants ( L. and Vahl) under High-Temperature Stress.
Kuan-Hung Lin Tse-Yen Lin Chun-Wei Wu Yu-Sen Chang
Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, National Taiwan University, Taipei 11106, Taiwan.
High-temperature stress is a major risk to fresh-market production, and heat intolerance is a major constraint in sage cultivation, particularly during the hot summer season. Previously, we investigated heat tolerance in five common-market cultivars of sage plants using leaf relative injury (RI) values and found that Vahl (SE) and L. (SO) were the most and least heat-tolerant species, respectively. Read More
Timo Smit Esther Schickel Omid Azimzadeh Christine von Toerne Oliver Rauh Sylvia Ritter Marco Durante Insa S Schroeder
Cells 2021 Sep 30;10(10). Epub 2021 Sep 30.
Biophysics Department, GSI Helmholtzzentrum für Schwerionenforschung GmbH, 64291 Darmstadt, Germany.
The heart tissue is a potential target of various noxae contributing to the onset of cardiovascular diseases. However, underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are largely unknown. Human stem cell-derived models are promising, but a major concern is cell immaturity when estimating risks for adults. Read More
The HPSE Gene Insulator-A Novel Regulatory Element That Affects Heparanase Expression, Stem Cell Mobilization, and the Risk of Acute Graft versus Host Disease.
Olga Ostrovsky Polina Baryakh Yan Morgulis Margarita Mayorov Nira Bloom Katia Beider Avichai Shimoni Israel Vlodavsky Arnon Nagler
Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Department of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Tel-Hashomer, Ramat Gan 5266202, Israel.
The HPSE gene encodes heparanase (HPSE), a key player in cancer, inflammation, and autoimmunity. We have previously identified a strong HPSE gene enhancer involved in self-regulation of heparanase by negative feedback exerted in a functional rs4693608 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) dependent manner. In the present study, we analyzed the HPSE gene insulator region, located in intron 9 and containing rs4426765, rs28649799, and rs4364254 SNPs. Read More
Fei-Xuan Wang Nan Zhu Fan Zhou Dong-Xiang Lin
Nanjing Institute of Product Quality Inspection, Nanjing 210019, China.
The incidence and prevalence of metabolic syndrome has steadily increased worldwide. As a major risk factor for various diseases, metabolic syndrome has come into focus in recent years. Some natural aporphine alkaloids are very promising agents in the prevention and treatment of metabolic syndrome and its components because of their wide variety of biological activities. Read More
Roxana Filip Liliana Anchidin-Norocel Roxana Gheorghita Wesley K Savage Mihai Dimian
Integrated Center for Research, Development and Innovation in Advanced Materials, Nanotechnologies, and Distributed Systems for Fabrication and Control, Stefan cel Mare University of Suceava, 720229 Suceava, Romania.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has led to an excess in community mortality across the globe. We review recent evidence on the clinical pathology of COVID-19, comorbidity factors, immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection, and factors influencing infection outcomes. The latter specifically includes diet and lifestyle factors during pandemic restrictions. Read More
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) is increasing rapidly worldwide. A healthy diet supporting the control of energy intake and body weight has major importance in the prevention of T2D. For example, a high intake of whole grain foods (WGF) has been shown to be inversely associated with risk for T2D. Read More
Andryanto Sutanto Citrawati Dyah Kencono Wungu Hendri Susilo Henry Sutanto
Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, State University of New York (SUNY) Downstate Health Sciences University, Brooklyn, NY 11203, USA.
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of death worldwide and obesity is a major risk factor that increases the morbidity and mortality of CVDs. Lifestyle modifications (e.g. Read More
Maša Hribar Hristo Hristov Živa Lavriša Barbara Koroušić Seljak Matej Gregorič Urška Blaznik Katja Žmitek Igor Pravst
Vitamin D is involved in calcium and phosphorus metabolism, and is vital for numerous bodily functions. In the absence of sufficient UV-B light-induced skin biosynthesis, dietary intake becomes the most important source of vitamin D. In the absence of biosynthesis, the recommended dietary vitamin D intake is 10-20 µg/day. Read More
Recurrent symptoms are almost always on visible skin. Sores inside the vagina or anus are usually only present as part of a primary infection and are unlikely to accompany a recurrence.
DID YOU KNOW? … 1 in 3 people with Herpes will have symptoms, whilst 2 in 3 will only have mild symptoms or none at all. Click here to see the full article.
You can choose your test method: urine or a swab if you have symptoms, and blood if you do not. Results are available within 2−5 working days from us receiving your sample depending on which sample is taken. The test will tell you whether you have HSV-1, HSV-2, both types or neither.
Tocolo also provides instant Herpes testing. With this exclusive, popular Herpes testing option, you will receive your results from 10 minutes after sample collection.
If you have symptoms for Herpes, the use of condoms might not protect your sexual partner from getting the virus from your infected areas that are not covered by the condom. Therefore, it is advised to abstain from sex if you have symptoms.
Neonatal Herpes can occur in rare cases (1 in 10,000 births worldwide) and might lead to lasting neurologic disability or even death of the infant. Pregnant women who get their first viral infection during late pregnancy are at a higher risk of acquiring the disease than those infected prior to pregnancy.
The symptoms and pains associated with recurrence of Herpes might lead to psychological distress, which could negatively affect the quality of life and sexual relationships of infected individuals.
If Herpes is left untreated, there is an increased risk of getting other sexually transmitted infections, including HIV.
Since the virus stays in the nerves surrounding the infected area permanently, there is no cure to eliminate the virus from the body. However, there are many treatments which are very effective at reducing both the severity and frequency of any outbreaks.
Creams and medications are available to manage the symptoms and keep outbreaks under control. If you test positive for Herpes, Tocolo will be able to prescribe the right treatment for you. You are most likely to pass the virus on when you have symptoms, so you should abstain or practice safe sex with a condom during this time.

A very easy to make version of vegan pancakes with bananas. These can be made with everyday ingredients that you have in your kitchen....
This Turkish fluffy bread is made without using eggs, and without an oven. It is not vegan though because this recipe uses milk. Well,...
Alto Neuroscience is redefining psychiatry by developing personalized and highly effective medicines to help patients get better faster. Our artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled platform measures biomarkers like EEG and wearable data, behavioral patterns, genetics, and other factors to match patients with the treatment they are most likely to respond to. Our approach matches the right patient with the right Alto drug based on AI-derived brain biomarkers, redefining psychiatry at a time when the world needs it most.
Homa H Zadeh
Homa H Zadeh is a tenured Associate Professor and the director of the post-doctoral periodontology program at the University of Southern California (USC), Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry and a diplomate of the American Board of Periodontology. Dr Zadeh received his doctor of dental surgery degree from USC Ostrow School of Dentistry. He has also completed advanced clinical education in Periodontology and earned a PhD degree in immunology from the University of Connecticut, Schools of Dental Medicine and Medicine.
Dr Zadeh is internationally recognised for his clinical and scientific expertise. His clinical areas of interest range from aesthetic and minimally invasive periodontal and implant surgery, as well as tissue engineering. Dr Zadeh directs the Laboratory for Immunoregulation and Tissue Engineering (LITE) at USC, dedicated to studying basic mechanisms to regulate bone and tissue regeneration/destruction under health/disease states, as well as conducting clinical trials of dental implant outcomes. He has published extensively, having published in peer-reviewed journals, as well as book chapters.
Dr Zadeh is the director of USC International Periodontal and Implant Symposium, which is currently in its 41st year of annual meetings; as well as USC-Taiwan Comprehensive Surgical and Restorative Implant Training Program, which has been running for the past 6 years. He is an active member of the American Academy of Periodontology (AAP), Academy of Osseointegration (AO), American Academy of Esthetic Dentistry (AAED) and American Association for Dental Research (AADR).
Dr Zadeh also maintains a part-time private practice limited to Periodontology in Southern California.
Joint Information Systems Committee Data Publications – Dryad-UK Workshop Simon Hodson, - ppt download
Presentation on theme: "Joint Information Systems Committee Data Publications – Dryad-UK Workshop Simon Hodson,"— Presentation transcript:
1 Joint Information Systems Committee Data Publications – Dryad-UK Workshop Simon Hodson, s.hodson@jisc.ac.uk
2 Joint Information Systems Committee Context Digital research data has become increasingly important in most research areas. Good management, curation and preservation is important for the integrity of science. Research data has value for verification, reuse and repurposing; reuse of research data can be particularly important in interdisciplinary studies. Research funders are increasingly asking researchers to make the underlying research available. Scholarly publications are beginning to insist that underlying datasets should be made publicly available.
3 Joint Information Systems Committee The value of research data Research data are a valuable investment. Good research needs good data. JISC wants to encourage research data sharing, open research data. Demonstrate the value of research data: researchers, funders, publishers, institutions. How?
4 Joint Information Systems Committee Why data publications? Data publications are one way of establishing a value proposition for research data. Data publications are a way of getting researcher buy-in, encouraging increasing view of the value of data; recognition for data publishing. Cultural change: a way of overcoming the prisoners dilemma. Dryad cite impressive rate for researchers submitting data. The foreknowledge that the data will be published improves data management practice; and improves the quality of the research.
5 Joint Information Systems Committee Challenges… Sensitive data. Anonymisation. Embargoes etc. Reluctance to share. Cost? Is this worth the investment? Promise of critical mass, network effects, cultural change? Preservation / curation challenges: how to fund this?
6 Joint Information Systems Committee Why Dryad? Partnerships: research data repository, journals, societies, funders etc… Funding model. Serving researchers needs.
7 Joint Information Systems Committee JISC Managing Research Data Programme (JISCMRD) JISC Research Data Programme seeks to expand effective data management and data sharing to benefit research and the HE sector more generally. Working towards developing a national strategy with key stakeholders (RCs, FCs, Institutions etc). Establish the foundations for an effective UK research data infrastructure.
8 Joint Information Systems Committee Programme Overview DEFINING STRATEGY, POLICY MoU (co-ordination with RCs etc) Impact and benefits of data centres study BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE AND IMPROVING PROCESSES Research data management planning (DMP-RCs) Research data management infrastructure (07/09, RDMI) PLANNING TOOLS AND METHODOLOGIES Integrated (research) Data Management Planning Tools/Support (IDMP); DEMONSTRATING THE BENEFITS Citing, linking and integrating research data (revised 14/09) Research data publications (revised 14/09) BUILDING CAPACITY AND SKILLS PG Data Management Training Materials (new call 04/10)
9 Joint Information Systems Committee 07/09 RDMI AdmiralOxford Zoology (includes neutron diffraction data, spreadsheets of lab data, microscopy image data, map and GPS data) FISHNet KCL, Freshwater Biological Association Freshwater biology: small scale observational data, large scale monitoring data. I2S2 Bath, Southampton, Cambridge, STFC-RAL Structural science, data management between large facilities (Diamond synchrotron, ISIS facility) and lab. IDMBSouthampton Institutional data management blueprint: archaeology, nanofabrication + discipline cluster meta-repository demonstrator IncrementalCambridge, Glasgow Library led: Archaeology, Biology, Chemistry, English, Engineering and Medicine MaDAMManchesterBiomedical (radiology, computational biology) PEG- BOARD BristolPalaeoclimatology modelling data SudamihOxfordHumanities: inc. urban history
10 Joint Information Systems Committee DMP-RCs EPSRCBath, IdMRC ERIM Project (Engineering Research Information Management) ESRCUKDA Data management planning for ESRC data-rich investments. STFCGlasgow Data management planning and community solutions in gravitational wave astronomy WellcomeLeicester HALOGEN (History, Archaeology, Linguistics, Onomastics, Genetics) BBSRCJohn Innes CentreDMPs for gene expression / microscopy MRCSTFC – DSS MRC Data Management Plans for longitudinal epidemiology studies
11 Joint Information Systems Committee 14/09 Call Strand B: Data Publications Funding is available for projects to explore and pilot innovative technical and organisational models for enhanced research data publications. Intended outcomes are models of scholarly publication that encourage the open publication of research data, and thereby stimulate the better management, more open sharing and easier reuse of research data.
12 Joint Information Systems Committee Strand B: Enhanced research data publications Data journal, enhanced publication or overlay journals… Scholarly, peer-reviewed, online publications that champion the sharing of data as an output of research activity, by exposing or linking to data held in an associated repository or archive. OJIMS: project to establish an open access, subject based repository for the meteorological sciences and scoped an overlay journal that would link into those data and documents. DRYAD: a repository for published research data in the field of evolutionary biology, with tight linkages to major evolutionary biology journals and domain-specific community databases.
13 Joint Information Systems Committee Strand B: Approach Projects may consider technical issues. Projects must consider organisational matters. The development of appropriate partnerships is essential to this strand as is a consideration of sustainability. Bids must demonstrate clearly how the proposed pilot will involve an appropriate partnerships that is likely to ensure the pilot data publication model will gain support from the research community and stakeholders targeted. By involving key stakeholders, bids should demonstrate that the proposed work will have as broad as possible an impact.
14 Joint Information Systems Committee Strand B: Deliverables A pilot model for an innovative research data publication, journal. Report considerations of technical, organisational and partnership issues. A business model addressing take-up and sustainability.
15 Joint Information Systems Committee JISCMRD Programme Expectations Participation in strand/programme activities: Strands Workshop, October 2010. JISCMRD Conference, March 2011. Final Programme Workshop, July 2011. Programme Manager visit and meeting(s) with DCC / Programme Support. Six-monthly reports as indicated in the JISC project management guidelines.
16 Joint Information Systems Committee JISCMRD Programme Expectations Project website and blog. Active contribution to programme and community discussions. Community discussion list: RESEARCH-DATAMAN@JISCMAIL.AC.UKRESEARCH-DATAMAN@JISCMAIL.AC.UK List for programme management information: JISCMRD@JISCMAIL.AC.UKJISCMRD@JISCMAIL.AC.UK Programme Netvibes at: http://www.netvibes.com/jiscmrd#Generalhttp://www.netvibes.com/jiscmrd#General Closed programme wiki for funded projects. Tag: #jiscmrd
17 Joint Information Systems Committee Key Information: Strand B Up to £200,000 per project. 2-4 Projects. Roughly £400K available. Deadline for submission by e-mail: 12 noon, Tuesday 25 May. Submissions to RESEARCHDATA@jisc.ac.uk Evaluation panel, early July. Projects to start in August 2010. Projects to complete by 31 July 2011.
Download ppt "Joint Information Systems Committee Data Publications – Dryad-UK Workshop Simon Hodson,"
Following multidose ethylnitrosourea (ENU) treatments to induce mutations in male founder C57BL/6J mice (Stock No. 000664), a forward genetic screen was utilized to identify phenotypic deviants in complex heart, lung, blood, and sleep disorders, at the Mouse Heart, Lung, Blood, and Sleep Disorders (HLBS) Center at The Jackson Laboratory. hlb219 initially was mapped by crossing to 129S1/SvImJ and BALB/cByJ mice. Mapping identified the location of the mutation in an interval of 14 cM on Chromosome 4, between D4Mit153 and D4Mit52. Sequencing of the candidate gene Mpl, myeloproliferative leukemia virus oncogene, revealed a T to C transition at codon 40 resulting in a change from cysteine to arginine. Heterozygotes were crossed to generate homozygotes. The mice have been maintained on a C57BL/6J background.
DNA sequencing of exons from genomic DNArevealed a single point mutation in the Mpl gene at codon40. The mutation is a T-to-C transition yieldingan amino acid change from a conserved cysteine to an arginine.
The Changing Role of the CIO | Technological Leadership Institute
techspeak_10-08-18-website.jpg
Series Event Date: Wednesday, October 10, 2018 - 6:00pm
Location: University Room, McNamara Alumni Center, 200 Oak Street SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455
Speakers: Judy Pennington, IT Transformation Instructor for the M.S. in Management of Technology; Tom Butterfield, CIO of TCF Financial Corporation; Khalid Kark, US CIO Program Research Leader at Deloitte; Tiffany Snyder, CIO of Animal Nutrition at Cargill
Video of Technically Speaking: The Changing Role of the CIO
Judy Pennington has spent the last 30+ years working in and around technology organizations. She has a foundation in technology and has focused at the intersection of people and technology. Judy has specialized in IT around workforce transformation, leadership development, operating model and organizational design, learning and development, culture and change management. Judy has experience designing and developing streamlined IT organizations and operations from working both inside IT organizations (she has been part of three IT executive leadership teams as a direct report to the CIO) and in a consultative role. Most recently, Judy was a managing director with Deloitte Consulting, where she was a CIO Fellow and a member of the leadership team and faculty for the CIO Next Generation Academy. She also led the IT workforce transformation practice for Deloitte. She has co-authored a number of articles for the Wall Street Journal CIO Report, as well as for Deloitte's 2015 and 2016 Technical Trends report: "IT Worker of the Future" (2015) and "RightSpeeding IT" (2016).
Tom Butterfield is the chief information officer of TCF Financial Corporation. He oversees enterprise information technology, including infrastructure, service delivery and application development. He has more than two decades of leadership experience in technology across a variety of industries, including Target Corporation, UnitedHealth Group, Deluxe Corporation, First Bank Corporate Payment Systems, Norwest Bank Card Services and Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Iowa. He holds a master's in business administration from Drake University and a comptuer science degree from the University of Iowa.
Khalid Kark is a thought leader with experience helping technology leaders thrive with a proven track record of leading high-performing teams and consulting delivery in the Americas, Europe, and Asia. He joined the US CIO Program as a research director with Deloitte LLP. In this role, he is focused on defining and developing a CIO research agenda. He is responsible for organizing and driving research initiatives – including surveys, client workshops, executive interviews and polls – and supporting client engagements as required. He is also responsible for featuring Deloitte's research and insights employing various tools, such as publications, keynotes, and partnerships, to highlight key issues for technology leaders globally. Before joining Deloitte, Khalid ran the CIO Research practice at Forrester. In this role, he was responsible for managing a global team of high-performing analysts and driving a cohesive and well-aligned research agenda. He also led strategic partnerships and collaboration opportunities inside and outside of Forrester. His research has been widely quoted in the press and media outlets, such as MSNBC, The Boston Globe and CIO Magazine.
Tiffany Snyder leads a global team of business relationship managers to enable and enhance Cargill Animal Nutrition's business strategy with an industry-leading process, data and technology. She helps further the IT product and service portfolio to meet the needs of Cargill Animal Nutrition. Prior to her current role, she was the Global IT Center of Expertise Leader, building Cargill's mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and more. She has focused on global transformation, improving the business process and change management. Her leadership style reflects her diverse experience in business acumen, technology expertise and entrepreneurial innovation.
EpisoDate.com is your TV show guide to Countdown De Slimste Mens ter Wereld Episode Air Dates and to stay in touch with De Slimste Mens ter Wereld next episode Air Date and your others favorite TV Shows. Add the shows you like to a "Watchlist" and let the site take it from there.
A recent study, performed by the Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg in Gothenburg, Sweden, in collaboration with DuPont Nutrition & Health (DuPont), has demonstrated that probiotics can positively change intestinal microbiota in patients with colon cancer.
The underlying reasoning behind the study is that the human gut microbiota in essence has the potential to affect overall health as it is a contributing factor to metabolism and interacts with the immune system. Other studies have shown that the gut microbiome is dysbiotic or abnormal in patients with gastrointestinal disorders.
In this new study, backed by DuPont, the researchers found that the composition and diversity of the microbiota was changed in the tumour tissue and surrounding mucosa in the biopsy samples they had taken from colon cancer patients when compared with control samples. Additionally, this altered microbiota was affected when probiotic intervention was employed — demonstrated by an increase in butyrate producing bacteria, which has been shown to suppress the growth of colon cancer cells.
“Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the top three cancers diagnosed globally each year, and the risk of colorectal cancer is strongly correlated to lifestyle factors such as diet,” said Ashley Hibberd, staff associate investigator, DuPont Nutrition & Health. “The results of our study show that the risk component from diet may be mediated by the microbiota, and that the specific probiotic strains used in this study have the potential to support the microbiota in a beneficial way.”
“The CRC-associated microbiota is being continuously defined as new biomarkers of CRC are discovered,” added Yvonne Wettergren, PhD, the Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg. “The microbial dysbiosis observed in patients with CRC may be manipulated by probiotic bacteria if protected by the ProBion matrix, and the probiotic strains used in this study show promise as a beneficial component of enhancing the microbiome in CRC.”
We sought to characterize the association between a forensic event (arrest or incarceration) with housing vulnerability and mental and physical health status over a four-year follow-up among a cohort of homeless and vulnerably housed individuals in Vancouver, Toronto and Ottawa. Data were obtained from the Health and Housing in Transition Study, a prospective cohort study of homeless and vulnerably housed individuals between 2009 and 2012. Participants were interviewed in-person at baseline (N = 1190) and at four annual follow-up time points. We used generalized estimating equations to characterize the independent associations between a forensic event and the number of residential moves and SF-12 physical and mental health component scores over the four-year follow-up period. We analyzed data from 1173 homeless and vulnerably housed participants. Forensic events were reported by 446 participants at baseline. In multivariate analyses, a history of forensic event in the preceding twelve months was independently associated with an increased number of residential moves over the four-year follow-up period (ARR 1.24; 95% CI 1.19–1.3). It was not, however, independently associated with a change in physical or mental health status (respective ß-estimates; 95% CI: -0.34; -1.02, 0.34, and -0.69; -1.5, 0.2). Female gender and a history of problematic substance use were significantly associated with all three primary outcomes. This suggests arrest or incarceration is associated with increased housing vulnerability. The results underline the importance of supporting individuals experiencing arrest or incarceration with post-release planning in order to obtain stable housing after discharge.
Utilizing Telehealth to Deliver Patient Care at the Cuyahoga County Corrections Center - Telehealth Innovation Forum by InTouch Health
A talk by Albert Ferreira
Director Telehealth Operations, The MetroHealth System
Delivering patient care services within the Cuyahoga County Corrections Center presents unique challenges. Routine and chronic care management of the inmates places a significant cost and logistical burden on the center. Therefore, care coordination between correctional staff and health care providers is essential to maintain the overall health of the inmate population. The use of Telehealth delivered care has enabled timely access to primary and specialty care services in addition to reducing the total cost of care.
