What is the Liver Transplant Cost in India? | ClinicSpots
The average liver transplant cost in India ranges from ₹16,00,000 ($22,500) to ₹23,50,000 ($33000).
Sometimes, it might cost you up to ₹30,00,000 ($42000). As overall cost depends on the complexity of the surgery, patient's medical condition, surgeon's experience, and hospital's status. For your reference and to ease your search we have shown the approximate Liver transplant price in India in a few of the major cities.
Liver Transplant Cost in India is as follows :
₹8,00,000 - ₹30,00,000 ($11,200 - $42,000)
₹9,00,000 - ₹35,00,000 ($12,600 - $49,000)
₹10,00,000 - ₹16,00,000 ($14,000 - $22,300)
₹11,00,000 - ₹15,00,000 ($15,300 - $21,000)
₹10,00,000 - ₹15,00,000 ($14,000 - $21,000)
Note: These costs may vary according to surgeons, hospitals, and locations.
Liver transplant cost in India by the major types of surgeries :
₹18,00,000 ($25,200) to ₹25,00,000 ($35,000)
₹12,00,000 ($16,800) – ₹18,00,000 ($25,200)
₹8,50,000 ($12,000) – ₹18,00,000 ($25,200)
Orthotopic Liver Transplant: Orthotopic liver transfer is usually suggested by the doctors for liver transplant in India. In this procedure, the whole damaged liver is replaced with a healthy donor liver. This is generally from the donor who has assured to donate their organ before death.
Living Donor: Unlike orthotopic, here in this procedure the living donor willingly donates his/ her liver to the recipient. This is one of the most recommended processes for liver transplant in India.
A Split Type: In this process, the liver is divided into two parts, the left side of the liver is usually recommended to children and the right side is provided to the adult patient as the right-side liver size is bigger than the left side. And this half healthy liver grows within a week by 85%. Preferably doctors suggest selecting the family member as a donor.
Liver transplant cost in India with comparison to other countries
₹16,00,000 ($22,500)
₹23,00,000 ($32,000)
₹46,00,000 ($65,000)
₹90,00,000 ($1,27,000)
Note: The above cost is an estimated value it can vary according to the surgeon, hospital, and location.
Is the Liver transplant cost in India affordable compared to other countries?
Yes, compared to other developed countries the liver transplant cost in India is highly cost-efficient (50% less than western countries). This is the reason why patients from all over the world travel to India for liver transplant surgery.
Following are the reasons why the cost varies between India versus other developed countries
Currency: Comparing with the currency of other countries (USD, Pound, Euros, etc.) the major difference in the cost is due to less value of Indian currency. Thus, this makes liver transplant in India cost-effective. Here, from the doctor's consultation to treatment to the hospital stay, overall charges are comparatively less.
Standard of Living: In India, the standard of living is inexpensive than countries like UK, USA, etc. So, amenities like food, transport, healthcare treatments, and accommodation are quite economical.
Competition: There are numerous admired and renowned hospitals in India which follow international standards when it comes to healthcare treatments and services. Since the patients have an extensive range of hospitals to opt for treatment according to their budget and requirement. Furthermore, hospitals incline to provide vigorous prices.
Hospitals: Both the Government and Private hospitals in India are highly efficient in delivering world-class medical treatments. Furthermore, Government hospitals also provide liver transplant treatment at subsidized charges. Thus, this contributes to one of the reasons for the varying ranges of cost.
Doctors: In India, we have highly experienced, skilled and qualified liver transplant surgeons who practice at prestigious hospitals in the country. Here, the doctors charge comparatively less than the doctors in other developed countries. Hence, it adds one more cause to choose liver transplant in India as it is affordable.
All these factors contribute to making liver transplant in India affordable. Thus, people across the world consider and recommend India as one of the best and preferred destinations for liver transplant treatment.
Pre-operative tests for Liver transplant in India:
Pre-liver transplantation assessment will last for 7-10 days. A series of tests will be conducted for both donor (another individual) and the recipient (patient).
Pre-operative tests include:
Procalcitonin (PCT) test detects increased PCT serum levels in the blood caused in liver disease. This test can cost you around ₹2100-₹2500 ($30-$35).
C-Reactive Protein (CRP) test examines higher CRP levels in the blood produced by the liver in response to inflammation. This test will cost around ₹400-₹600 ($5-$8).
Also, there are a number of other blood tests required like hemoglobin, PCV, TLC, RBC and MCV count, etc. which will set you back by around ₹1000-₹1500 ($14-$21).
Positron Emission Tomography- Computed tomography (PET-CT) scan identifies changes at the cellular level at the early onset of any disease prior to other imaging tests can which costs around ₹2000-₹10,000 ($28-$140).
Applied for viewing blood flow to and from the liver, to detect any abnormalities like any lump or mass in the liver. This scan costs around ₹500 to ₹1000 ($7-$14).
It helps diagnose infection in your lungs and also produces images of heart, lungs, blood vessels, airways and bones of your chest and spine. This scan will cost you around ₹500-₹2000 ($7-$28).
Electrocardiogram (ECG) Identifies changes in your heart rhythm and measures the electrical activity of the heartbeat. This test costs around ₹300-₹700 ($4-$9).
Evaluates pulmonary hypertension and measures the capacity of your lungs. This will cost around ₹800-₹1500 ($11- $21).
What are the factors that influence Liver transplant Surgery Cost in India?
Location and status of the hospital: When you undergo a liver transplant in a charitable or government hospital the expenses are low compared to private or deluxe hospitals. For liver transplantation in government hospitals, you need to wait for a longer duration (1-2 months) for your turn to come. As the government hospitals provide invaluable treatments at an affordable cost, a number of people choose these hospitals for treatment. Thus, there is a waiting line for patients. If there is an emergency and you want to avoid longer ques then you can opt for a private hospital. Here, you will receive immediate treatment but you will be charged more compared to government hospitals. The best hospitals in India regardless of its status are within its metropolitan cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, and Hyderabad.
Surgeon: Liver transplant surgery is highly sophisticated. To deal with such operations the surgeon needs to be experienced and must have handled several surgeries. Hence, surgeons with more experience may charge more.
Age: Generally, there is a need for liver transplantation in patients with a diseased or damaged liver. It is a complex surgery normally performed in older patients suffering from chronic liver disease or even in acute liver failure patients. But some infants suffering from rare liver diseases like Biliary Atresia, Wilson's disease, Alagille syndrome, Cholestatic disorders, and other genetic liver disorders also need liver transplantation surgery. In the case of younger patients, the surgery becomes elaborative and may require refined equipment. Hence, age is one of the most prominent factors that affect liver transplant cost in India.
Pre-Donation evaluation: The diseased liver is either replaced completely or partially with the help of a living or deceased donor's liver. Every potential liver donor needs to go through a series of blood tests and scans. Thus, other costs also get added to liver transplant surgery as the procedure is carried between two individuals. The check-up for both the patient's costs around ₹2-3 lakhs ($2800-$4200).
Room category: Post liver transplant surgery, the patient is admitted for 15-20 days for complete recovery. The admission rooms are categorized as general and deluxe and it's completely your choice which one to select. These rooms are charged based on per day of admission. Some hospitals also provide accommodation to the patient's relatives in the same room where the patient is admitted but, some don't. Then, you need to pay separately for other family member's accommodation. Hence, the room category also adds on extra charges.
Post-operative recovery period: After, liver transplantation the minimum recovery period is about 15-20 days. Sometimes, the patient may require more duration for complete recovery. If more duration is required for recovery then more expenses are spent on the patient's admission.
Pre & Post-operative medications: Liver transplant surgery involves the replacement of a diseased liver of a patient with a healthy liver from a donor. Thus, to make your body receptacle for a foreign organ you need to take long-term medications such as anti-rejection medicines. Apart from the surgical procedure, the patient is charged separately for the pre- & post-operative medications.
Transportation: The transportation costs include charges for ambulance and other routine check-up hospital visit charges. These charges are excluded from the surgery package.
Physiotherapy and rehabilitation: Physiotherapy and rehabilitative approaches are implemented pre-& post-operative. This may help patients with liver disease and liver transplants to enhance the quality of life by improving muscle strength, prevents excessive fatigue and increases aerobic capacity.
Services for Domestic Patients
24-hours of pharmacy
Laundry service for patient/attendant
Through this article we have attempted to educate readers on liver cancer treatment and charges incurred, so that they can make informed decisions.
If you are suffering from Hepatitis A than you must read this blog to have knowledge about it and to know where you should seek help. Below we have discussed Hepatitis A symptoms, reasons, diagnosis, treatment, cost of treatment, and prevention.
List of Best Hospitals in World 2022
In this article, we will discuss the best hospitals in the world based on their facilities and services. Also, will discuss various factors that need to be considered while choosing a hospital for treatment. Here is a list of famous and the best hospitals globally for 2022.
Feeling stuck? Have you been told that no change is possible? Are you exhausted? Unable to do the things that you want to? Struggling with a medical condition? At a crossroads in your career or emotional life? Even the strongest among us can feel lost, unsure, ambivalent, or unhappy at times. As a Certified Independent Health Coach, I can help. I believe that you have the strength not just to survive, but to truly thrive.
Taylor Made Health Solutions
About
Dawn R Beatty-Taylor
Certified Independent Health Coach
Dawn Beatty-Taylor, has spent her life helping others. At a young age, she was always the one that friends would come to, so they could talk through problems or situations. In her early career as a graphic designer, people would come to her office to talk. Dawn has a bachelor’s degree in psychology with a minor in Sociology. In 2000, Dawn graduated with her master’s degree in marriage, family, and child therapy. After doing her internship in an agency, she decided to open a private counseling practice to continue working with those individuals that were emotionally struggling. Due to some of the restrictions that can be imposed in a counseling office, Dawn began to look at other avenues in which she could continue to work with people who are battling mental health issues.
In 2018 she decided to take yet another step in helping and became a Certified Transformational Nutrition Coach, emphasizing Eating Disorders and Emotional Eating. She has also completed training to be a Certified Mental Health Integrative Medical Provider (CMHIMP) and an Independent Certified Optavia Health Coach –in partnership with the MacDonald Center for Obesity Prevention and Education (COPE) & Villanova University College of Nursing.
Over the past several years, she began to see a connection between nutrition and emotional health. It became apparent to her that many hurting people are also struggling with their nutrition and balancing how food and supplementation play a role in their daily diet.
How we fuel our bodies plays a large role in how we feel. It’s a multifaceted issue that comprises everything that occurs in our lives, from the moment our feet hit the floor in the morning, to the moment we crawl back into bed at night.
Dawn now works to further assist people in seeking joy and happiness in the truest sense of the word. She seeks to assist individuals in feeling better: physically, mentally, cognitively, emotionally, and financially, by helping them find and live their optimal life. Each individual has a unique path they will need to travel in order to find their fulfillment, just like each person is unique in what that final goal looks like. In some cases, it is a weight issue (gaining or losing), in others it is depression or anxiety, for some emotional eating, or it could be something else entirely.
What is your story?
Are You Ready
To Take Your Health Back?
What would you like to do?
Improve Overall Nutrition
Control Emotional Eating
Decrease Cholesterol
Decrease High Blood Pressure
Improve Energy
Increase Quality of Life
Increase Sleep
Improve Blood Sugars
Stabilize Emotions
Lose Weight
Gain Weight
Control Anxiety Better
Create Healthy Habits
Help a Struggling Teen
Nursing Mom Nutrition
Senior Nutrition
Complete An Online Health Assessment
Begin your journey to a healthy lifestyle by telling me a little bit about you and your health!
(Complimentary)
Schedule a Complimentary Health Assessment Review
Take a few minutes to review your answers on the health assessment and answer any questions that I might have. I can then customize a path for you to reach your goals.
J Cataract Refract Surg. 2013 Jan;39(1):15-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2012.10.037.
Emma Friling 1 , Mats Lundström 1 , Ulf Stenevi 1 , Per Montan 2
1 From St. Erik Eye Hospital (Friling, Montan), Stockholm, the Department of Clinical Sciences, Ophthalmology (Lundström), Faculty of Medicine, Lund University, Lund, and Sahlgrenska University Hospital (Stenevi), Molndal, Sweden.
2 From St. Erik Eye Hospital (Friling, Montan), Stockholm, the Department of Clinical Sciences, Ophthalmology (Lundström), Faculty of Medicine, Lund University, Lund, and Sahlgrenska University Hospital (Stenevi), Molndal, Sweden. Electronic address: per.montan@sankterik.se.
PMID: 23245359
DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2012.10.037
Purpose: To report the nationwide incidence and risk factors for endophthalmitis after cataract surgery in Sweden.
Setting: Swedish National Cataract Register containing reports on cataract operations from all Swedish ophthalmic surgical units.
Methods: Endophthalmitis case reports were collected from 2005 through 2010. Case and control parameters pertaining to patient characteristics and surgical technique were generated from the database. In addition, information from annual surveys regarding the topical prophylactic protocol was analyzed.
Results: The reports showed 135 endophthalmitis cases in 464,996 operations, equaling an incidence of 0.029%. Patient age over 85 years, perioperative communication with the vitreous and, above all, nonuse of intracameral cefuroxime showed a statistically significant association with endophthalmitis in the logistic regression. Short-term topical antibiotics given as add-on prophylaxis to the intracameral regimen before, after, or before and after the operation did not confer a clear-cut benefit. Groups with topical treatment were small, comprising 14% of the sample.
Conclusions: The incidence of endophthalmitis after cataract surgery in Sweden is declining, which appears to be explained by a fall in the frequency of major risk factors. Operating earlier in the cataract course, avoiding capsule breakage, and giving intracameral antibiotics universally should further reduce the endophthalmitis rate.
Top Natural Remedies for Stress - HRI Herbal Medicine
Stress Awareness Month in April is a great opportunity for all of us to take the time to understand how it affects us, our friends and colleagues and, if it is becoming a problem, to discover ways to manage our stress levels better. By understanding the causes and effects of stress, and finding out more about treatments, we can take back control and start to improve our health and overall wellbeing.
Stress – or more accurately, the inability for people to cope with the stress in their lives – is often referred to as a modern-day epidemic. A degree of stress is a normal part of everyday life – but it's important to try to manage how stress impacts your life to keep healthy.
There is no 'one size fits all' solution to managing stress – it will depend on you, the factors which are causing stress and your natural ability for resilience. However, whatever you are dealing with at the moment, our top natural remedies for stress could help you take that first step to feeling a little less overwhelmed.
Stress is a natural response to what the body and mind perceive as a threat. Your body's stress response is designed to help you best respond to difficult situations. It is also part of what is known as your 'fight, flight or freeze' response.
When any of us experience a stressful situation, we experience noticeable physical, emotional and psychological changes. These can include your muscles tensing up, your heart 'racing', feeling anxious or overwhelmed and an inability to think clearly or objectively.
Our body's natural stress response to was originally designed to keep us safe, helping us to react quickly and effectively to stressful situations: imagine if you were a caveman faced with a Tyrannosaurus Rex, you would be very grateful for the flood of adrenalin that could help you run faster and focus on just one thing!
Today, however, this same 'fight or flight' response kicks in for many everyday stressful situations, leaving you with too much adrenaline coursing around your body, causing adverse side effects and potentially having a long-term negative effect on your health.
As well as feeling unpleasant, chronic stress can worsen existing health problems like heart or skin conditions. This can be made worse but the strategies that many of us use to cope with stress, such as drinking alcohol, 'comfort eating' or smoking, which of course all compound the negative impact on our health and wellbeing.
A Natural Approach to Managing Stress
There are a number of ways that you can be kind to yourself so that you are as well equipped as possible to cope with the stresses and strains that life throws at us, from the everyday hassles such as the school run or supermarket queues, right through to major life stresses such as bereavement, relationship breakdowns or illness.
Here are our top six tips for natural steps that you can take to reduce the impact of stress on your health:
Eating for Better Wellbeing
What we eat has a huge impact on how well our body can respond to stress. Just as a car won't run on an empty fuel tank, so your body needs the right nutrition as fuel. We all know that a healthy diet with plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables helps our bodies work well, but it can also help to boost your mood and improve your state of mind. Reducing stimulants such as caffeine, alcohol and high-sugar foods means that we can help avoid making a stressful state feel even worse.
Physical activity is a great stress reliever. Whether your favourite form of exercise is a stroll around the park with the dog or a brisk 10k run or cycle ride, you will almost always feel better afterwards. Physical activity can help you clear your thoughts and release some of your emotional intensity by releasing endorphins – the 'feel-good hormone' – in your brain. If the activity can take place outdoors, then you will also get the benefits of fresh air with additional oxygen to help you deal with problems more effectively
Build Meditation into your Week
There are many different types of meditation, so you can choose which one works best for you, whether that's a yoga or tai chi class, guided meditation or just an app on your phone. Once you have learned how to meditate, you can practice it pretty much anywhere to help relieve stress and calm troubled thoughts.
It's essential to get enough sleep. Without it, our bodies and minds don't have time to rest and restore themselves, leaving us more vulnerable to being overwhelmed by stress or anxiety and less able to deal with it effectively. The book 'Why We Sleep' by Professor Matthew Walkersays "Sleep is one of the most important aspects of our life, health and longevity and yet it is increasingly neglected in twenty-first-century society, with devastating consequences: every major disease in the developed world – Alzheimer's, cancer, obesity, diabetes – has very strong causal links to deficient sleep".
When you're feeling stressed or anxious, it can feel easier to say nothing and try and deal with your worries on your own. As the recent 'Time to Change' mental health campaign has highlighted, it is not healthy to bottle everything all up inside. The old adage of 'a problem shared is a problem halved' is as relevant today as ever and chatting face-to-face with friends about what's bothering you can be a great stress-reliever.
Try a Herbal Remedy for Stress
St John's Wort is a traditionally trusted and used herbal remedy for stress, low mood and anxiety. Make sure you choose a THR approved product for an assurance of safety and quality. THR-certified HRI Good Mood contains the strongest daily dose on the UK Market and is available at Holland & Barrett, Boots and Superdrug. Always read the patient information leaflet before taking.
By taking these simple steps and finding out more about the impact of stress, you can start to regain control of how stress affects your day to day life. If you feel that stress is causing high levels of anxiety or depression, or if you are concerned about symptoms such as raised heart rate, you should always consult your GP.
Do you feel #bloated? Check out our guide to finding the underlying cause.
www.hriherbalmedicine.co.uk/fat-fluid-retention/ ... See MoreSee Less
Discover if bloating is caused by fluid retention ...
Herbalist, Hannah Charman BsC, shares her expert knowledge of medicinal herb, echinacea, and the 'immune balancing' benefits of taking HRI Cold & Flu to help prevent colds, naturally. www.hriherbalmedicine.co.uk/echinacea-natures-immune-balancer/ ... See MoreSee Less
Do you feel #bloated in the heat? ... See MoreSee Less
Do you feel #bloated in the heat?
HRI WATER BALANCE ✅ Can help relieve puffiness and bloating caused by water retention ✅ An active blend of Dandelio… https://t.co/1J8GAQltFz 2019/08/13
#ThrowbackThursday #TBT https://t.co/kG5OnFu8Uk 2019/08/08
RT @BritishVogue: As summer rolls out its sunniest days and freedom begins in earnest there is nowhere better to be than one of the UK's ho… 2019/08/05
RT @BritishVogue: Freckles have seen a resurgence in the past few years, thanks to the likes of The Duchess of Sussex, who made them a feat… 2019/08/05
NSLIJ - Vascular/Interventional Radiology
To schedule a consultation or a procedure at LIJMC contact:
Janet Russo, Medical Secretary (718) 470-4143
Doreen Donovan, Nurse Practitioner (718) 470-7288 or Fax: (718) 347-0392
To schedule a consultation or a procedure at NSUH contact:
Patty Wiedman, RN (516) 562-4677
Cari Schlatmann, Medical Secretary (516) 562-4771
Interventional Radiology is an exciting, rapidly evolving sub-specialty of radiology in which vascular and non-vascular diseases are treated by using small caliber catheters or catheter based devices. These minimally invasive procedures are accomplished through percutaneous tracts without the need for large surgical incisions or general anesthesia. These interventions are guided by various imaging modalities including fluoroscopy, ultrasound, CT scan. The Interventional Radiologist is trained in diagnostic imaging, percutaneous imaging guided procedures, and also in the clinical skills required for the patient management in the periprocedural interval.
We perform the entire gamut of interventional radiology procedures, which include angiography angioplasty and vascular stent placement, embolotherapy, including fibroid embolization and gonadal vein embolization, thrombolysis, IVC filter placement, biliary and urinary tract procedures, percutaneous abscess drainage, percutaneous fine needle and core biopsies, imaging guided tumor ablation, TIPSS, hepatic artery chemoembolization, and evaluation and treatment of vascular malformations.
The Interventional Radiologists maintain an active inpatient clinical service as well as outpatient clinics at both the Northshore University Hospital and Long Island Jewish Medical Center campuses.
The Vascular & Interventional Radiologist of the Northshore-LIJ Health System are committed to provide safe effective and prompt patient care. Our experienced faculty and staff will work tirelessly towards this goal in a compassionate and professional way. Our Physicians
David Siegel, M.D., FSIR Chief, Division Of Vascular/Interventional Radiology
Northshore-LIJ Health System & Long Island Jewish Medical Center
Craig Greben, M.D., FSIR Chief, Division Of Vascular/Interventional Radiology
Igor Lobko, M.D.
Assistant Chief and Fellowship Program Director
Eric Gandras, M.D.
Assistant Chief, Division Of Vascular/Interventional Radiology
Attending, Division Of Vascular/Interventional Radiology
Daniel Putterman, M.D.
Chris Sung, M.D.
Steven Weck, M.D.
Department Chair and Interventional Radiologist
Anthony Febles, M.D.
Ernest Kelling, M.D.
Art R. Rastinehad, D.O. Assistant Professor of Urology and Radiolgy Director of Interventional Urologic Oncology The Arthur Smith Institute for Urology / Division of Vascular and Interventional Radiology North Shore-LIJ Hofstra School of Medicine and Health System Vascular/Interventional Radiology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center and North Shore University Hospital.
I, Councillor Bharat Ramji Nathoo Pankhania a Member/Co-opted Member of Bath and North East Somerset Council (The Council) give notice that
I am employed by the University of Exeter Medical School as a Senior Clinical Lecturer, my speciality is Public Health Medicine and Communicable Disease Control
RightEye strikes deal with MIT to research Ocular – Web Xpress
BETHESDA, Md., April 25, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — RightEye, the world leader in eye-tracking biomarkers, has signed a research collaboration agreement with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to study a "signature" oculomotor Lyme disease. This approach promises to be the most accurate indicator of Lyme disease in the world. Current "gold standard" diagnostic tests, including the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the Western Blot Test, have widely accepted shortcomings.
MIT researchers will be responsible for recruiting participants and conducting testing with control and experimental groups using the RightEye vision system. The studies will look at people with acute Lyme and chronic symptoms after Lyme infection. The study aims to determine if ocular motor function can be used to generate a highly accurate, non-invasive and sensitive biomarker for Lyme disease.
According to the CDC, reported cases of Lyme disease have nearly tripled over the past two decades. With tick populations increasing due to climate change and environmental factors, experts fear their numbers will continue to rise. To compound this problem, diagnosing Lyme disease is not always an easy task. Not all patients develop the signature "bulls-eye rash" associated with the disease. On the contrary, patients often present with ambiguous symptoms such as fever, fatigue and joint pain. In more progressive cases of the disease, patients may experience neuropathy, mental fog, arthritis, and heart palpitations. Lyme disease is often called "the great imitator" for its ability to mimic other conditions, baffling doctors and suffering patients alike.
Commenting on the study, Scientific Director and Co-Founder of RightEye, Dr. Melissa Hunfalvay, said, "The widely accepted shortcomings of ELISA and Western Blot testing greatly increase the importance of this study. These tests are based on the presence of antibodies directed against the bacteria. that causes Lyme disease, rather than detecting the disease itself. Although these blood tests are useful tools for diagnosing Lyme disease, they rely on the patient's immune response to generate a positive test result with varying levels of success. During the early stages of the disease, antibodies may be too few for detection, leading to false negatives. A more objective and reliable form of detection is needed if we are to accurately diagnose this disease in its early stages.
Dr. Michal Caspi Tal, Instructor and Team Leader at Stanford University's Institute of Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine and Visiting Scholar in MIT's Department of Bioengineering Noted, "More than 10% of people with Lyme disease continue to suffer from a chronic illness. It is not known why some regain their health while others do not. We hope that this research will provide answers to those who develop chronic symptoms after Lyme disease. This could lead to interventions that can reduce or even alleviate chronic symptoms after Lyme disease."
RightEye is an eye movement behavioral biomarker company that uses advanced eye tracking technology to revolutionize eye care and provide essential medical research. RightEye technology assesses patients for binocular vision, visual impairment, reading impairment, and ocular motor performance issues following an evidence-based, measurement-driven methodology. Using an advanced cloud-based platform, the RightEye Vision System provides data-rich reporting and analytics that provide an objective and measurable way to visualize the quality of a person's eye movements and monitor the success of various treatments. RightEye's customers include recognized eye care providers, professional and amateur sports teams, hospital systems, rehabilitation centers and the US military.
For more information, visit www.RightEye.com and follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn.
Chronic and Acute Back Pain From a Car Crash • Chiropractic Scientists • 915-850-0900
The information herein on "Chronic and Acute Back Pain From a Car Crash" is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified healthcare professional or licensed physician and is not medical advice. We encourage you to make your own health care decisions based on your research and partnership with a qualified health care professional.
Wednesday, October 24, 2018 Drug News
SUZHOU, China, Oct. 23, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- CStone Pharmaceuticals ("CStone") today announced that the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
has recently granted approval to the company's Investigational New Drug (IND) application for the independently developed recombinant humanized anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibody (mAb) CS1003. This represents CStone's second drug candidate
to receive IND approval from the FDA less than one month after US clinical trial approval for CS1001 (PD-L1), and demonstrates CStone's global clinical development capability.
Residential Rehabilitation | Drug Rehab Swansea
When it comes to residential medical care, many options are available. Location therapies offered, staff experience, amenities and much more are some of the major factors that make rehab differs from one another. Finding a facility that meets your requirements is very vital to recovery.
Inpatient rehabilitation centres are facilities that offer residential treatment to patients for varying durations according to the program they are on. Although most rehabs offer extended stay, the usual amount of time it takes for someone to complete treatment is 30 days. The extent of treatment relies on upon a few elements, including the severity of the addiction, the presence of any co-morbid psychological health status and whether the individual has completed rehabilitation before
Accommodations that are tailor made to suit the needs of an individual patient are provided in residential rehab facilities. Some are simple with shared rooms, cafeteria-style suppers and recreational stuffs like pool and Ping-Pong. Others may provide private extravagance suites with sensualist meals and a multitude of comforts similar to a pool, spa and gymnasium.
If you or your loved one is ready to get into a facility for Inpatient rehabilitation, get in touch with us today. If you are looking for the best-suited treatment centre, we can help you get one call 0800 772 3971.
Are There Any Programs To Help Patients Remain Sober After The Initial Rehabilitation?
You will be able to take some of the pressure off finding the appropriate rehab and pinpoint the one that suits your needs if you have answers to these questions.
For anyone with a severe substance addiction or abuse problem, Inpatient rehabilitation presents the best success rate in the long term. The best ways to avoid relapse in the future is for the Inpatient treatment programs to provide an environment with 24-hour care and thorough planning.
Having a highly structured, comfortable and safe environment.
It is important to appreciate that you are not on your own in your fight to get clean. Heading off to an Inpatient treatment centre is the initial move toward recovering your life and living all alone conditions.
