ISPUB.com / IJPM/11/2/11195
Pulmonary Capillaritis In A Classical Polyarteritis Nodosa
A Taj, S Kanjwal, R Assaly, J Hammersley
A Taj, S Kanjwal, R Assaly, J Hammersley. Pulmonary Capillaritis In A Classical Polyarteritis Nodosa. The Internet Journal of Pulmonary Medicine. 2008 Volume 11 Number 2.
Introduction: Pulmonary involvement in classical polyarteritis nodosa is very uncommon. A 65 year old woman with well documented, classical polyarteritis nodosa was found to have pulmonary capillaritis presenting as alveolar hemorrhage. Patient responded well to the treatment for alveolar hemorrhage.Methods: We report a case of polyarteritis nodosa with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage due to pulmonary capillaritis.Discussion: We describe a case of Polyarteritis nodosa who presented with pulmonary hemorrhage due to pulmonary capillaritis and hence might represent an overlap of polyarteritis nodosa with Microscopic Polyangiitis (MPA) or other unclassified collagen vascular disease.Conclusion: We conclude that pulmonary capillaritis can coexist with "classical" polyarteritis nodosa.
Pulmonary involvement in classical polyarteritis nodosa(PAN) is uncommon(1, 2). Cases with pulmonary involvement have been seen mostly in patients with microscopic polyangiitis or Churg-Strauss syndrome. Pulmonary involvement though rare in PAN is more frequent in patients with Hepatitis B related PAN, and endothelial cell damage by immune complexes is thought to play a role(3,4). Pulmonary manifestations include alveolar hemorrhage or diffuse alveolar damage which could be fatal.
Pulmonary capillaritis has been described in microscopic polyangiitis, but till date there has been no report of pulmonary capillaritis in classical PAN (5).
We report a case of classical PAN presenting with alveolar hemorrhage due to pulmonary capillaritis.
Sixty five year old Caucasian female presented to the University of Toledo Medical centre (UTMC) with acute respiratory failure, patchy pulmonary infiltrates, and abnormal renal function. The patient had been evaluated two months prior for severe hypertension with a renal angiogram, as her blood pressure was refractory to medication and the angiogram revealed right renal artery micro-aneurysms consistent with findings seen in polyarteritis nodosa.
On presentation to the emergency room at UTMC, she was in severe respiratory distress She had a respiratory rate of 30/minute, with use of accessory muscles, BP 190/105, pulse 110 regular, Temp 37.9C. Skin exam revealed no rashes or other abnormalities suggestive of collagen vascular
disease. Head, ears, eyes, nose and throat - no clinical evidence of sinusitis, septal perforation, or ear abnormalities. No lymphadenopathy. Respiratory examination revealed vesicular breath sounds with mid-inspiratory crackles and wheezing.
Cardiovascular examination revealed regular S1-S2, no S3, no murmur. Abdomen was soft without any organomegaly. Extremity examination showed no edema. Neurological exam was normal. Initial laboratory evaluation was as follows:
WBC 16.8 with 70% Neutrophils. Hemoglobin 10.3g/dl. Hematocrit 31.2. Platelets 341000/mm3. Arterial blood gases on 50% FiO2 shows pH of 7.47, PCO2 31, PaO2 52 mm Hg. Urinalysis - Microscopic hematuria with the presence of hyaline and red blood cell casts consistent with glomerulonephritis, blood urea nitrogen 42 and creatinine was 2.1 mg/dl.
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 125 mm/hr. Antinuclear antibodies, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, double stranded DNA, Hepatitis B antibodies, Hepatitis C antibodies, Complement (C3-C4), antibasement membrane antibodies were negative The admission chest x-ray showed diffuse alveolar infiltrates.
Fiberoptic and transbronchial biopsies performed on the day of admission showed alveolar hemorrhage and fibrinous exudates with abundant interstitial neutrophils consistent with the diagnosis of pulmonary capillaritis.
Smears and cultures of bronchial washings were negative for any bacteria, fungi, and mycobacteria. Bronchial cytology was negative for malignant cells.
On second day of admission, the patient was started on pulse methyprednisone. Patient continued to require higher concentration of oxygen and her kidney function deteriorated. Creatinine increased to 5.3 mg/dl, when pulse therapy with cyclophosphamide at 750 mg/m2 was started.
On day four, the patient showed signs of improvement with decrease in her oxygen requirements. Her chest x-ray started to clear and her creatinine decreased to 3.3 mg/dl. The patient continued to improve and was extubated successfully on day twelve. Patient's stay was complicated by lower gastrointestinal bleeding requiring blood transfusions and was shown to be due to ulcerative lesions at the rectosigmoid junction. Biopsy of the lesion taken did not show any evidence of vasculitis.
Patient's condition improved and on day 30 she developed symptomatic AV node block. A pacemaker was inserted. The cardiac profile was consistent with acute myocardial infarction and on day 32 the patient expired. Patient developed ventricular fibrillation and could not be resuscitated back. Autopsy was not granted.
Classic polyarteritis nodosa involves both small and medium vessels and is associated with hypertension, but pulmonary capillaritis does not occur. Our patient fulfilled the criteria of classical polyarteritis nodosa by the American College of Rheumatology 1990. These criteria have a reported sensitivity of 82.2% and a reported specificity of 86.6% for the classification of polyarteritis nodosa compared with other vasculitides (6). Our patient had weight loss of 10 kgs since the illness began, elevated BUN and creatinine, worsening of hypertension and renal arteriogram showing classical findings of microaneurysms consistent with Polyarteritis nodosa. This time our patient presented with respiratory failure due to alveolar hemorrhage and pulmonary capillaritis. Pulmonary capillaritis is a histopathologic diagnosis that is not pathognomonic of a specific disorder, it usually signals the presence of an underlying systemic vasculitis or collagen vascular disease. Patients with pulmonary capillaritis usually present with bilateral infiltrates on chest radiographs and can be acutely ill with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage that may be life threatening. Therapy depends on diagnosis of the underlying disease that gave rise to the capillaritis (7)
Pulmonary capillaritis has been reported with variable frequency and severity as a manifestation of Wegener's granulomatosis, microscopic polyarteriteis, systemic lupus erythematosus, Goospasteur's syndrome, idiopathic pulmonary renal syndrome, Behcet's syndrome, Henoch-Scholein purpura, IgA nephropathy, antiphospholipid syndrome, progressive systemic sclerosis and diphenylhydantoin use(8).
Amongst Collagen vascular diseases, SLE is the most frequent cause of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage and pulmonary capillaritis(9).It has been seen in few cases of polymyositis(10) and systemic sclerosis(11,12). Cases of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage due to pulmonary capillaritis has been seen to complicate Rheumatoid arthritis and Mixed connective tissue disease. It is not a part of systemic vasculitis but rather isolated small vessel vasculitis.(13)
Our patient did not have clinical or immunological criteria to support the diagnosis of lupus, antibasement membrane disease, or a collagen vascular disease.
In Wegener's, the sole histologic finding of pulmonary capillaritis was described in 3 out of 122 patients. (14) The lack of histologic features and more typical respiratory tract lesions makes Wegener's less likely.
Microscopic polyangiitis can be a good possibility in our patient. It is a form of necrotizing small vessel vasculitis that affects venules, capillaries, arterioles. It is the most common cause of pulmonary renal vasculitic syndrome(15).Our patient this time presented with pulmonary capillaritis as well as glomerulonephritis.
Ten patients were prospectively studied who had features of systemic vasculitis that could not be classified into one of the well-defined vasculitic syndromes. Since many of these syndromes had overlapping features of several distinct vasculitides, they were classified as the polyangiitis overlap syndrome(16).
We describe a case of Polyarteritis nodosa which overlaps with Microscopic Polyangiitis (MPA) or other unclassified collagen vascular disease. We conclude that pulmonary capillaritis can coexist with "classical" polyarteritis nodosa.
1.	Moskowitz et al. Histopath. Classification of Periarteritis nodosa. A study of 56 cases confirmed at necropsy. Mayo Clin. Proc. 38: 345-352.
2.	Rose et al. Polyarteritis nodosa Q.J. Med. 26: 43-81, 1952.
3.	Bocanegra TS, Espinoza LR, Vasey FB. Pulmonary hemorrhage in systemic necrotizing vasculitis associated with hepatitis B. Chest 1981;80, 102-103.
4.	Nick J, Tuder R, May R .Polyarteritis nodosa with pulmonary vasculitis.Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1996;153,450-453.
5.	Savage CO et al. Microscopic polyarteritis; Presentation, pathology, and prognosis. QJ Med 1985; 56:467-83.
6.	Lightfoot et al. The American College of Rheumatology 1990, Criteria for the Classification of polyarteritis nodosa. Arthritis and Rheumatism Vol. 33, No. 8, August 1996,1088-1093
7.	Franks TJ, Koss MN. Pulmonary capillaritis. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 2000 Sep;6(5):430-5.
8.	Ronald J, Stephen J, Sally A et al. Pulmonary Capillaritis and Alveolar Hemorrhage. Update on Diagnosis and Management. Chest 1996; 110, 1305-1316.
9.	Zamora MR, Warner ML, Tuder R et al. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage and systemic lupus erythematosus: Clinical presentation, histology, survival and outcome. Medicine 1997; 76: 192- 201.
10.	Schwarz MI, Sutarik JM, Nick JA et al. Pulmonary capillaritis and diffuse alveolar hemorrhage: a primary manifestation of polymyositis. Am J Respir Crit Care Med.1995:151:2037-40.
11.	Griffin MT, Robb JD, Martin JR. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage associated with progressive systemic sclerosis. Thorax 1990; 45: 903-04.
12.	Kallenbach J, Priasloo I, Zwi S. Progressive systemic sclerosis complicated by diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. Thorax. 1977; 32:767-70\13.
13.	Schwarz MI, Zamora MR et al. Isolated pulmonary capillaritis and Diffuse Alveolar Hemorrhage in Rheumatoid Arthritis and Mixed Connective Tissue disease. Chest. 1998:113;1609-1615.
14.	Mark EG et al. The pulmonary biopsy in early diagnosis of Wegener's. Human Path.1988; 9:1065-71.
15.	Jennette JC, Thomas DB, Falk RJ.Microscopic polyangiitis.Semin Diagn Pathol.2001 Feb;18: 3-13.
16.	Leavitt et al. Polyangiitis overlap syndrome. Classification and prospective clinical experience. Am. J. Med. 1986; 81-, 79-85.
Department of Internal Medicine University of Toledo Medical Centre 3000 Arlington Avenue Toledo Ohio 43614
Department of Pulmonary Critical Care and Sleep Medicine University of Toledo Medical Centre 3000 Arlington Avenue Toledo Ohio 43614
Ragheb A. Assaly
Professor of Medicine Program Director Internal Medicine Residency Program. University of Toledo Medical Centre 3000 Arlington Avenue Toledo Ohio 43614
Professor of Medicine Department of Pulmonary Critical Care and Sleep Medicine University of Toledo Medical Centre 3000 Arlington Avenue Toledo Ohio 43614
Check out this practice note for guidance on cybersecurity measures available to employers to protect their confidential information and trade secrets. Cybersecurity is particularly important for employers because they maintain a wide variety of confidential information...
Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resource Kit: Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
Check out this resource kit for an overview of data privacy and cybersecurity issues companies typically address regarding the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). READ NOW » Related Content Work From Home Cybersecurity Basics Checklist: Business Planning...
New GDPR Compliance Internal Training Presentation
Access this recently published practice note to prepare a presentation to train personnel about the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and how to comply with it. READ NOW » Related Content General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Overview...
Review this first analysis article for an overview of the CPRA, a measure aimed at strengthening consumer data privacy protection and restricting the collection and use of personal information by businesses in California. READ NOW » Related Content ...
Access this practice note for guidance on minimizing the risk of a ransomware attack and reducing the harm that a successful attack can cause. READ NOW » Related Content Identity Theft State Law Survey Use this state law survey for an overview of...
Cybersecurity: An Attorney's Ethical Duty (Free CLE Webinar)
Join us on March 3, 2021 for a free online CLE program that will review attorneys' ethical duties with respect to cybersecurity, recent guidelines, and practical guidance for meeting these responsibilities and resources for researching further. REGISTER...
Working From Home Cybersecurity Fundamentals: Business Planning and Preparedness
Review this checklist for guidance on key data security and privacy business planning issues to consider for companies impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. READ NOW » Related Content Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resource Kit: Data Privacy and Cybersecurity...
New Social Media Privacy State Law Compliance Guidance
This month, Practical Guidance is publishing new social media privacy state law Q&As for all 51 jurisdictions. These Q&As address whether a state has enacted social media account privacy legislation, describes the conduct that these state laws prohibit...
Business Continuity and Emergency Planning Best Practices
Review this checklist for guidance on developing business continuity plans (BCP), Emergency Action Plans (EAP), and Disaster Response Plans. It provides policies and procedures that a company should implement if there is a significant disruption to its business...
Can You Keep a Secret? Protecting Employers' Confidential Info: Cybersecurity Best Practices
Access this practice note for guidance on cybersecurity measures available to employers to protect their confidential information and trade secrets. READ NOW » Related Content Workplace Internal Data Security Best Practices Resource Kit Check out...
Data Retention and Disposal Regulation: State Law Comparison Survey
Access this survey for an overview of each state's laws regulating the disposal or destruction of records containing sensitive personally identifying information stored by an organization. READ NOW » Related Content Privacy Policies: Drafting...
Cybersecurity Risk Factors: Drafting Tips and Best Practices
Review this form of risk factors that describes cybersecurity issues and potential risks, and may be included in a public company's annual and periodic reports, registration statements, and other offering documents and filings with the U.S. Securities and...
Just Published: HIPAA Enforcement Decision Tracker
Review the new Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) regulatory enforcement tracker for prominent recent guidance and enforcement actions undertaken by the Office of Civil Rights (OCR) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services...
New Telemarketing Privacy State Law Q&As
This month, Practical Guidance is publishing new telemarketing privacy state law Q&As for all 51 jurisdictions. These Q&As provide an overview of how states regulate unsolicited commercial telephonic solicitation of traditional and wireless subscribers...
This Incident Response Plan template provides a company-wide framework for informing staff and managers of the actions to take on discovering a personal data breach (including a cybersecurity breach). It reflects reporting requirements required under the General...
The standard definition of an AT device is "any item, piece of equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially off-the-shelf, modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve the functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities" (U.S. Congress, 1988). This broad definition covers any piece of technology that can help someone with a disability, and includes seven AT categories: Positioning, Mobility, Augmentative and Alternative Communication, Computer Access, Adaptive Toys and games, Adaptive Environments, and Instructional Aids [12]. Please note these categories are not exclusive, and often intertwine RT/AT devices and can range from a wheelchair to a customized prosthesis and/or universal design.
Well-documented evidence has been published in the research literature [8,9,13,14] relevant to the effectiveness of RT/AT. Scherer, Vanbiervleit, Cushman, & Scherer [14] found that when RT/AT matches the individual with disabilities needs and case processes occur collaborative between rehabilitation professionals there is a significant increase among individuals receiving positive outcomes and effective use of rehabilitation funds. While the Center on Effective Rehabilitation Technology (CERT) and Burton Blatt Institute (2012) reported findings from 2010 RSA-911 data showing that 32% of individuals with disabilities receiving rehabilitation and assistive technology (RT/AT) within VR (e.g., state-federal vocational rehabilitation services) exited without a positive employment outcome.
While several studies have noted the varying successes of matching technology with persons with disabilities as a whole grouping, they have not shown the impact of RT/AT success specifically related to persons with amputation. Amputation is of interest due to the immediate impact on an individual’s ability to perform functional activities of work. Within the VR system it is critical to understand the impact of the amputation on the person’s ability to perform the functional task of job, current or a future job or schooling. For individuals who have entered the VR system with amputation one might have to regain some form of independence and the ability to perform functional tasks utilizing some type of RT/AT (e.g. wheelchair, prosthetics, graspers). Currently, literature has not evaluated the impact of RT/AT has on individuals with amputation within the VR system.
Therefore, the purpose of this work was to define the effect of receiving rehabilitation technology through Vocational Rehabilitation services on employment outcomes in people with amputation.
Data for the current study were extracted from the U.S. Department of Education’s Rehabilitation Service Administration Case Service Report (RSA-911) database, which is a large administrative dataset that includes detailed information regarding demographics, disability, types of services, and employment outcomes for people with disabilities receiving state VR services in the United States. Any individual having amputation listed as the primary impairment and whose vocational rehabilitation case was started and closed (with or without an employment outcome) between years 2007 and 2012 were included for subsequent analysis.
Outcome variables were competitive employment, hourly wage at closure, and primary support at closure. An individual was said to have competitive employment when they work in an integrated setting, self-employed, or in a state-managed Business Enterprise Program and the person is compensated at above minimum wage. Hourly wage at closure was calculated as the amount of reported weekly earnings divided by the hours worked per week. Primary support at closure was defined as either the individual’s primary source of income came from personal income or from public support (Supplemental Security Income, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, etc.).
A forward model logistic regression analysis determined best predictors of competitive employment. Those potential predictors include gender, race, presence of a comorbidity, all the different services provided by VR, and receipt of a prosthesis. This was necessary so that the model could correct for the potential confounding effect of another service. Significance was set at p < 0.05.
Specific independent variables were gender, race, presence of a secondary disability, VR guidance and counseling, college or university training, occupational vocational training, on-the-job training, basic academic remedial literacy or literacy training, job readiness training, disability related augmentative skills training, miscellaneous training, job search assistance, job placement assistance, on-the-job support, transportation services, maintenance services, and the receipt of rehabilitation technology.
Home Drugs R & D Lithium Chloride Blunts Brain Damage Tied To Fetal Alcohol Syndrome
A drug used to treat aggression and bipolar disease, a single dose of lithium chloride block the sleep disturbances, memory loss, and learning problems tied to fetal alcohol syndrome, new trials in mice appear. Published in the journal Neuroscience online Nov. 26, and led by scientists at NYU School of Medicine, the new examination found that giving the medication to newborn mice 15 minutes after "binge" alcohol consumption phase out the hyperactivity and sleep disturbances seen when rodents exposed to alcohol became adults. Also, the scientists report, lithium chloride-treated mice were substantially less prone to demonstrate the 25 percent drop in memory and subjective test scores were seen in untreated mice given a similar amount of liquor.
Co-senior study investigator Donald Wilson, Ph.D. says, "Our research demonstrated that lithium chloride prevented many of the damaging neurological effects of alcohol abuse on the as yet developing brain, particularly the effect on the parts of the brain controlling sleep". For calculating the effect on human fetal development, the mice brains achieve developmental milestones after birth that are similar to those in different mammals, including humans, mice given alcohol soon after birth are a good model.
It is too early to propose lithium chloride as a treatment or preventive treatment for fetal alcohol syndrome. The drug is "likely far too risky for pregnant mothers," with known organ toxicities, cautions Wilson, a professor at NYU Langone Health. Additionally, trials would need to continue under strict medical supervision to ensure the safety of mothers and children.
A more likely future treatment, says co-senior study investigator Mariko Saito, Ph.D., would be one that takes advantage of chemistry related to the activity of lithium chloride, yet with fewer side effects. Saito, a research assistant professor at NYU Langone says, "Lithium chloride is known to block many pathways that prompt brain cell death while elevating others that lead to survival, similar to brain-derived neurotrophic factor, or BDNF".
Additionally, experiments are required, she says, to determine whether chemicals that stimulate BDNF production likewise blunt the impacts of alcohol abuse in newborn mammals. Co-lead study investigator Monica Lewin, MS, a doctoral student at NYU Langone says, of equivalent significance, the research brings researchers closer to determining to fix sleep issues tied alcohol syndrome alone is key to countering the other developmental impacts tied to alcohol abuse.
The key findings from the studies were that mice given lithium chloride after consuming alcohol and mice that never consumed alcohol had the same duration of undisrupted sleep of around 10 hours per day, while untreated mice given alcohol woke up as many as 50 times each hour. Sleep disturbances in animals and humans have for some time been connected to cognitive and emotional damage. Recent work by a same group of scientists demonstrated that such disturbances in sleep were likewise a sign of fetal alcohol syndrome, both in animal models and in humans. Mice that slept better and longer, in the case of suffering from alcohol abuse or not, had better brain function than those that slept more ineffectively.
In the United States, the brain damage is related to fetal alcohol syndrome is believed to afflict one of every 33 newborns and it occurs when the developing up fetus' mother drinks a lot of alcohol. The next plans to research by Wilson and his team, whether lithium chloride can blunt other forms of neurological damage, for example, that resulting from trauma and stroke, both of which can kill large groups of brain cells.
Arthritis Pain Treatment Specialist Near Me in Hinsdale, IL
Home » Arthritis Pain Treatment Specialist in Hinsdale, IL
Arthritis Pain Treatment Specialist in Hinsdale, IL
Common questions asked by patients: What is the best pain relief for arthritis? What is the fastest way to cure arthritis? How can I stop the pain from arthritis? Can arthritic pain go away?
Progressive Physical Therapy offers effective treatment for arthritis pain relief. For more information, call us today or book an appointment online. We are conveniently located at 15 Spinning Wheel Road Ste. 24 Hinsdale, IL 60521.
Combination antibiotic therapy versus monotherapy in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: an open-label randomized trial | BMC Infectious Diseases | Full Text
Skip to main content
Advertisement
Search
Explore journals
Get published
About BMC
My account
Search all BMC articles
Search
BMC Infectious Diseases
Home
About
Articles
Submission Guidelines
Join the board
Combination antibiotic therapy versus monotherapy in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: an open-label randomized trial
Download PDF
Download PDF
Research
Open Access
Published: 29 September 2021
Combination antibiotic therapy versus monotherapy in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: an open-label randomized trial
Phuong Nguyen Thi Thu1,2,
Minh Ngo Thị Huong3,
Ngan Tran Thi1,2,
Hoi Nguyen Thanh1,2 &
…
Khue Pham Minh1
Show authors
BMC Infectious Diseases volume 21, Article number: 1019 (2021) Cite this article
6241 Accesses
1 Citations
1 Altmetric
Metrics details
Abstract
Background
The role of antibiotics in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations and their effectiveness in combination have not been clearly established. To determine whether using a combination of fluoroquinolones and beta-lactams improves the clinical and microbiological efficacy of antibiotics on day 20 of treatment, we conducted an open-label randomized trial based on clinical outcomes, microbiological clearance, spirometry tests, and signs of systemic inflammation in patients hospitalized with acute exacerbations of COPD.
Methods
We enrolled 139 subjects with COPD exacerbations, defined as acute worsening of respiratory symptoms leading to additional treatment. Patients were divided randomly into two groups: 79 patients using beta-lactam antibiotics alone and 60 using beta-lactam antibiotics plus fluoroquinolones. Clinical and microbiological responses, spirometry tests, symptom scores, and serum C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were evaluated.
Results
Clinical success, lung function, and symptoms were similar in patients with or without fluoroquinolone administration on days 10 and 20. Combination therapy was superior in terms of microbiological outcomes and reduction in serum CRP value. Although equivalent to monotherapy in terms of clinical success, the combination showed superiority in terms of microbiological success and a decrease in CRP. The combination therapy group had a higher microbiological success rate with gram-negative bacteria than the monotherapy group with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (100% vs. 33.3%, respectively) and Acinetobacter baumanii (100% vs. 20%, respectively) (P < 0.05).
Conclusions
Concomitant use of fluoroquinolone and beta-lactam antibiotics for bacterial infections during COPD exacerbations caused by gram-negative bacteria appear to be effective and should be applied in clinical practice.
Peer Review reports
Background
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of the leading causes of death in the United States and worldwide. COPD exacerbation is defined as an acute worsening of respiratory symptoms beyond one’s ability to adapt normally, requiring additional treatment and bringing a risk of adverse health events that could affect the patient in the future [1,2,3]. Significant progress has been made in understanding the etiology and pathogenesis of these exacerbations. In contrast, there are few clinical trials of appropriate design and quality that can support the selection of an optimal treatment approach to these exacerbations. The empirical prescription of antibiotics to treat presumed bacterial infections is common in patients presenting with acute exacerbations of COPD. However, their use is debated, and whether the choice of antibiotic is important is controversial [4, 5]. A key feature of airway inflammation in COPD is the persistent presence of bacteria in the lower respiratory tract. The most commonly isolated bacteria in the lower respiratory tract of patients with COPD are Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae, with increasing evidence of the importance of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in severe COPD [6]. These bacteria exhibit high resistance to many antibiotics, and empirical treatment for serious systemic infections often involves a two-drug regimen [7, 8]. The efficacy of combination antibiotic therapy in patients with gram-negative bacillus sepsis has been previously tested, with most studies including a combination of beta-lactam antibiotics and aminoglycosides. Overall, the mortality rate for patients treated with beta-lactam-aminoglycoside combination therapy was not significantly reduced compared with that of patients with gram-negative bacillary sepsis treated with beta-lactam monotherapy [9,10,11]. Another potentially favorable combination is a beta-lactam plus a fluoroquinolone. However, while these combinations exhibit synergistic strength (i.e., no organisms isolated after the 24-h killing tests) due to the bactericidal activity of the combination, the minimum inhibitory concentrations of organisms recovered were unaltered [12]. With increased antibiotic resistance in gram-negative bacilli, the use of combination antibiotic therapy to treat sepsis caused by these bacilli has resurfaced [13]. Studies have shown that inappropriate antibiotic treatment can be alleviated using empirical combination therapy [14]. Despite the increasing use of fluoroquinolones due to their relatively broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity and their accepted safety, to the best of our knowledge, the inclusion of fluoroquinolones in a combined antibacterial regimen for gram-negative bacilli has not been studied on a per-drug basis.
We hypothesized that the empirical use of fluoroquinolones combined with beta-lactam antibiotics would increase their therapeutic success in patients with acute exacerbations of COPD compared with that in patients in whom beta-lactam monotherapy was used. The main goal of this study was to compare the clinical and bacterial success of a combination of beta-lactam and fluoroquinolone antibiotics with that of beta-lactam monotherapy in adult patients with COPD exacerbations.
Methods
Participants and study design
The study protocols were reviewed and approved by the Hai Phong International Hospital Institutional Review Board. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and International Conference on the Harmonization of the Technical Requirements for the Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use—Good Clinical Practice guidelines. All subjects gave written informed consent before study initiation. This trial was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04879030).
The participants comprised patients aged over 45 years, diagnosed with COPD stages I–IV as stated by the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) [15], with acute exacerbations (onset of signs under 14 days as defined by Anthonisen et al. [16]: type 1 [increased dyspnea, increased sputum volume, and sputum purulence] or type 2 [involved two or three symptoms that needed hospitalization]), and who had used antibiotics for at least 1 day. The exclusion criteria were: recently detected or unresolved pulmonary malignancy, other infectious diseases requiring antibiotic treatment, signs of pneumonia on radiographs, and kidney failure.
Randomization and intervention
This was an open-label, randomized study using two types of treatments. Participants were divided into two groups using a simple randomization procedure. Within 24 h of admission, patients were divided randomly into two groups by computer-generated random numbers, with one group receiving a course of single-antibiotic therapy with beta-lactam antibiotics alone and the other receiving concomitant antibiotic treatment, defined as the use of two antibiotics including one beta-lactam antibiotic and one fluoroquinolone. The beta-lactam antibiotics with activity against gram-negative bacilli in this study included piperacillin-tazobactam, ticarcillin-clavulanate, imipenem-cilastatin, meropenem, ertapenem, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, and cefixime. The fluoroquinolone antibiotics included ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and moxifloxacin. Other COPD medications were continued. When antibiotic therapy failed, the attending physician had the right to reevaluate the clinical status and to replace the antibiotic therapy in the study with more appropriate treatment. Safety was recorded daily with the support of a clinical pharmacist to report adverse events.
Outcomes and follow-up
On days 1, 10, and 20, patients were evaluated clinically, and blood was drawn, collected, and the levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton, CA). Pulmonary function testing was performed, and expectorated sputum samples were collected by laboratory technicians. Symptoms were scored via a 10-point visual analog scale (VAS) for shortness of breath, tiredness, cough, and sputum color by a respiratory physician [17]. Separate and total scores were calculated.
The primary endpoint was the clinical outcome on day 20, as stated by Chow et al. [18]. Successful treatment was assessed as cure (completely resolved signs and symptoms related to exacerbations) or improvement (resolved or decreased symptoms and signs without new symptoms or signs related to infection) by a respiratory physician. Treatment failure was defined as the failure to address symptoms and signs, worsening of symptoms and signs, the appearance of new symptoms and signs related to the primary infection or new infection, or death.
The secondary endpoints included clinical outcome on day 10 and clinical success on days 10 and 20, based on lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV1]), serum CRP, symptoms, and microbiological responses.
Microbiological response
The microbiological outcome was evaluated on days 1 and 20 in accordance with the guidelines for the clinical evaluation of anti-infective drug products by Beam et al. [19]. Success was defined as eradication (absence of the original pathogen in an adequate sputum sample after completion of therapy), presumptive eradication (clinical success in the absence of adequate sputum production), reduction (reduction of the bacterial load), or colony (the appearance of an organism that differs from that of the original pathogen in the absence of symptoms or signs of active infection). Failure was defined as persistence (continued presence of the original pathogen upon completion of therapy), relapse (the reemergence of the same pathogen after a documented absence), superinfection (emergence of a new pathogen during therapy, with associated symptoms and signs), or presumed persistence (initiation of new antimicrobial therapy for continued infection in the absence of microbiological data). The response was regarded as indeterminate in case of death or withdrawal before follow-up cultures were obtained, if microbiological data were incomplete, or if a patient had received an effective course of antibiotics that was not part of the study protocol.
Sample size and statistical analyses
Our sample size was calculated based on the results of Ioannis et al. [20], who had a treatment success rate of 65% for the beta-lactam monotherapy group and 85% for the combination therapy group. In total, 60 exacerbations were needed in both arms of our study to compare the effect of antibiotic monotherapy and concomitant therapy on day 20 with 80% power at a significance level of 5%.
All analyses were performed using the Statistical Analysis System statistical software package, version 9.1.3 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC) and R software, version 3.2.4 [21]. Comparisons of continuous variables between two study groups were performed using a t-test for normally distributed data and a Mann–Whitney U test for non-normally distributed data; differences in frequencies of two groups were analyzed by the chi-squared test. The Fisher-exact test was used when comparing the difference in proportions of two small groups [22]. There were no missing data during the study. Subtypes were assigned depending on the type of exacerbation, presence of bacteria, serum CRP level, and pulmonary function test. Heterogeneity of therapeutic effects between subgroups was checked using logistic regression analysis.
Results
Baseline characteristics
Of the 170 participants screened, 155 were enrolled and randomly assigned to either the monotherapy (80 exacerbations) or combination therapy (75 exacerbations) group. Almost all participants in the monotherapy (79 of 80 [99%]) and combination groups (60 of 75 [80%]) accomplished the trial (Fig. 1). The most common cause for patients to discontinue our study was withdrawal of consent. The baseline characteristics are shown in Table 1. During the study period, the groups remained comparable with regard to demographic characteristics, smoking number, VAS score, baseline FEV1, baseline forced vital capacity, comorbidities, white blood cell count, CRP level, partial pressure of oxygen, partial pressure of carbon dioxide, inhalation corticosteroids, and systemic corticosteroid use.
Fig. 1
Enrollment and follow-up of patients. Shows the screening, enrollment, random assignment
Full size image
Table 1 Baseline patient characteristics
Full size table
Primary outcome
Of the study population, 70 patients (88.6%) in the monotherapy group and 53 (88.3%) in the combination group (Table 2) were diagnosed as clinically successful on day 20. On day 20 of combination treatment, the clinical success was not significantly higher than that with monotherapy (P = 1).
Table 2 Effect of interventions on primary and secondary endpoints
Full size table
Secondary outcomes
Clinical outcomes on day 10
On day 10, 48 patients (60.7%) in the monotherapy group and 36 (60%) in the combination therapy group were evaluated as clinically successful. The clinical success rates on day 10 were significantly different (P = 1) between the two regimens (Table 2).
Pulmonary function
Paired pulmonary function results were collected for 139 subjects on days 1, 10, and 20. The baseline FEV1 of monotherapy and combination therapy was 0.75 ± 0.19 L and 0.73 ± 0.21 L, respectively. There was no significant difference in FEV1 between the two therapies (P = 0.22) (Table 2). The mean elevation of FEV1 on day 10 was 0.17 ± 0.21 L in the monotherapy group and 0.20 ± 0.26 L in the combination therapy group (P = 0.24) (Table 2). On day 20, the mean elevation was 0.18 ± 0.28 L in the monotherapy group and 0.24 ± 0.25 L in the combination group (P = 0.56) (Table 2).
Serum CRP
The mean decrease in the CRP level on day 10 was − 13.5 ± 14.3 mg/L in the monotherapy group and − 12.6 ± 16.1 mg/L in the combination group (P = 0.099) (Table 2). On day 20, the combination group had a significantly greater decrease in CRP compared with the monotherapy group (− 26.9 ± 15.7 mg/L vs. − 22.1 ± 14.5 mg/L, P = 0.004).
Symptom scores
The mean change in total symptoms score on day 10 was − 10.6 ± 9.6 in the monotherapy group and − 10.5 ± 13.3 in the combination group (P = 0.92) (Table 2). On day 20, the mean change in total symptoms score was − 21.3 ± 15.1 in the monotherapy group and − 23.8 ± 17.6 in the combination group (P = 0.26).
Microbiological outcomes
We evaluated the bacteriological responses of 139 patients on days 1 and 20 (Table 3). The most predominant pathogens were S. pneumoniae (35.9%), H. influenzae (20.9%), P. aeruginosa (12.9%), and Acinetobacter baumannii (8.6%). Successful bacterial eradication was observed in 70 of the 79 patients in the monotherapy group (88.6%) and 58 of 60 (96.7%) in the combination group (P = 0.11) (Table 3). For the two most common pathogens (S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae), the success rates for those using combination therapy were not significantly higher than for those using monotherapy (S. pneumoniae: 94.4% vs. 96.9%, respectively, P = 1; H. influenzae: 87.5% vs. 95.2%, respectively, P = 0.48). The combination group had a higher microbiological success rate with gram-negative bacteria than the monotherapy group with P. aeruginosa (100% vs. 33.3%, respectively) and A. baumanii (100% vs. 20%, respectively) (P < 0.05) (Table 3).
Table 3 Microbiological outcomes
Full size table
Discussion
There was no significant difference in clinical outcome on day 20 among patients with acute exacerbations of COPD treated with combination therapy and those treated with monotherapy. Moreover, combination therapy with fluoroquinolone was not advantageous over monotherapy for the clinical outcome on day 10 or microbiological success. However, the combination therapy group had a higher microbiological success rate with gram-negative bacteria than the monotherapy group with P. aeruginosa and A. baumanii (P < 0.05). The main rationale for antibiotic use in patients with COPD exacerbations has been reported to be their close association with bacteria such as H. influenzae [23]. Many systematic reviews have shown the benefit of antibiotics in the treatment of COPD exacerbations. Using antibiotics can help reduce recovery time, the risk of exacerbations, treatment failure, and the length of hospital stay in patients with COPD [24, 25]. Some antibiotics, such as quinolones, macrolides, beta-lactams, doxycycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, have proven effective in treating bacterial infections in COPD exacerbations [26]. The MOSAIC study compared broad-spectrum fluoroquinolones (such as moxifloxacin) with narrow-spectrum antibiotics (amoxicillin, clarithromycin, or cefuroxime-axetil) and found that moxifloxacin and narrow-spectrum antibiotics were comparable in terms of clinical success (improvement or cure); however, moxifloxacin was associated with a higher clinical cure rate and superior bactericidal activity [27]. Some results suggest that broad-spectrum antibiotics are more effective in treating exacerbations [16, 27]. Finally, patients using combination therapy did not show a greater decrease in symptoms on days 10 and 20 compared with those using monotherapy. There were no differences observed in the recovery of pulmonary function or resolution of main symptoms of systemic inflammation between our study groups. To the best of our knowledge, there are no studies that compare single-antibiotic and combination regimens in patients with COPD exacerbations.
Our study showed that the main causes of COPD exacerbations were S. pneumoniae (35.9%), H. influenzae (20.9%), P. aeruginosa (12.9%), and A. baumannii (8.6%). Our results are consistent with the results of other studies [28,29,30,31].
This was a randomized trial to evaluate antibiotic combination therapy for acute exacerbations of COPD. Our study did not find a significant therapeutic effect on the main outcome (clinical success on days 10 and 20). Our research findings indicate that it is unclear if there is an advantage in selecting concomitant therapy of beta-lactams and fluoroquinolone when single beta-lactam therapy can be administered for severe COPD with exacerbations, according to susceptibility testing results. However, this should be interpreted in consideration of whether the small size of our study would offer sufficient statistical power to detect large differences between the two intervention groups [32]. Moreover, this study was not placebo-controlled. Therefore, the enrollment of patients with pneumonia may have increased the observed therapeutic effect. Additionally, we selected patients with moderate-to-severe COPD with exacerbations requiring hospitalization. The severity of these exacerbations can cause a large proportion of early recurrences, thereby reducing treatment effectiveness. Since combination therapy did not outperform monotherapy in the overall analysis, it is important to evaluate whether certain subgroups benefit from antibiotics. It is clear that the airways of patients with COPD carry a certain bacterial load, and an increase in bacterial load or even the addition of a new strain of bacteria does not necessarily lead to an exacerbation [5]. In this study, we could not find any advantage in using combination therapy based on the reduction of serum CRP levels. Although serum CRP has been suggested as a biomarker of infection in acute exacerbations of COPD [33], evidence has shown that antibiotic therapy is guided by procalcitonin levels, a systemic marker of bacterial infection, which safely reduces antibiotic use [34].
The findings of this study should be explained in the context of some potential limitations. The absence of advanced antibiotic resistance in our hospital could affect the generalization of results to other studies. Another drawback of our study is that patients were not stratified depending on factors that may impact study results, such as COPD severity. However, in the subgroup evaluation, we concluded that disease severity did not affect the therapeutic outcome. Further, the VAS used in this study to score patient symptoms is not validated and has not been assessed specifically for acute exacerbations of COPD. However, the VAS is commonly used to measure subjective signs, and the VAS can reproducibly score symptoms such as shortness of breath and fatigue [35].
Conclusion
The combination of a beta-lactam with a fluoroquinolone is equivalent to beta-lactam monotherapy in terms of clinical response on days 10 and 20 but is superior against S. pneumoniae and P. aeruginosa in terms of microbiological success on day 10. Additional effects of combination therapy include a greater reduction in the change in serum CRP levels. Further research is required before combination therapy is routinely recommended.
Availability of data and materials
Data available on request from the authors.
Abbreviations
COPD:
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
CRP:
C-reactive protein
VAS:
Visual analog scale
FEV1:
Forced expiratory volume in 1 s
FVC:
Forced vital capacity
PaO2 :
Partial pressure of oxygen
PaCO2 :
Partial pressure of carbon dioxide
References
Halpin DMG, et al. Global initiative for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive lung disease. The 2020 GOLD science committee report on COVID-19 and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2021;203(1):24–36.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Burrows B, Earle RH. Course and prognosis of chronic obstructive lung disease. A prospective study of 200 patients. N Engl J Med. 1969;280(8):397–404.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Spencer S, et al. Health status deterioration in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2001;163(1):122–8.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Hirschmann JV. Do bacteria cause exacerbations of COPD? Chest. 2000;118(1):193–203.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Murphy TF, Sethi S, Niederman MS. The role of bacteria in exacerbations of COPD. A constructive view. Chest. 2000;118(1):204–9.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Kyd JM, McGrath J, Krishnamurthy A. Mechanisms of bacterial resistance to antibiotics in infections of COPD patients. Curr Drug Targets. 2011;12(4):521–30.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Gajdacs, M., The concept of an ideal antibiotic: implications for drug design. Molecules, 2019. 24(5).
Worthington RJ, Melander C. Combination approaches to combat multidrug-resistant bacteria. Trends Biotechnol. 2013;31(3):177–84.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Klibanov OM, Raasch RH, Rublein JC. Single versus combined antibiotic therapy for gram-negative infections. Ann Pharmacother. 2004;38(2):332–7.
Article Google Scholar
Leibovici L, et al. Monotherapy versus beta-lactam-aminoglycoside combination treatment for gram-negative bacteremia: a prospective, observational study. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1997;41(5):1127–33.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Safdar N, Handelsman J, Maki DG. Does combination antimicrobial therapy reduce mortality in Gram-negative bacteraemia? A meta-analysis. Lancet Infect Dis. 2004;4(8):519–27.
Article Google Scholar
Fish DN, Choi MK, Jung R. Synergic activity of cephalosporins plus fluoroquinolones against Pseudomonas aeruginosa with resistance to one or both drugs. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2002;50(6):1045–9.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Behzadi P, Barath Z, Gajdacs M. It’s not easy being green: a narrative review on the microbiology, virulence and therapeutic prospects of multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Antibiotics (Basel), 2021. 10(1).
Micek ST, et al. Pseudomonas aeruginosa bloodstream infection: importance of appropriate initial antimicrobial treatment. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2005;49(4):1306–11.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Shen YC, Chen L, Wen FQ. Interretation of 2019 global strategy for the diagnosis, management and prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018;98(48):3913–6.
CAS PubMed Google Scholar
Anthonisen NR, et al. Antibiotic therapy in exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Ann Intern Med. 1987;106(2):196–204.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Raj-Koziak D, et al. Visual analogue scales as a tool for initial assessment of tinnitus severity: psychometric evaluation in a clinical population. Audiol Neurootol. 2018;23(4):229–37.
Article Google Scholar
Chow AW, et al. Evaluation of new anti-infective drugs for the treatment of respiratory tract infections. Infectious Diseases Society of America and the Food and Drug Administration. Clin Infect Dis. 1992;15(Suppl 1):S62-88.
Article Google Scholar
Beam TR Jr, Gilbert DN, Kunin CM. General guidelines for the clinical evaluation of anti-infective drug products. Infectious Diseases Society of America and the Food and Drug Administration. Clin Infect Dis. 1992;15(Suppl 1):S5-32.
Article Google Scholar
Bliziotis IA, et al. Impact of definitive therapy with beta-lactam monotherapy or combination with an aminoglycoside or a quinolone for Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia. PLoS ONE. 2011;6(10):e26470.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Team RC (2013) R, a language and environment for statistical computing. R Foundation for Statistical Computing. http://www.R-projectorg/.
Bewick V, Cheek L, Ball J. Statistics review 8: qualitative data—tests of association. Crit Care. 2004;8(1):46–53.
Article Google Scholar
Sethi S, Murphy TF. Infection in the pathogenesis and course of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. N Engl J Med. 2008;359(22):2355–65.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Fabbri L, et al. Global strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: GOLD executive summary updated 2003. COPD. 2004;1(1):105–41.
Article Google Scholar
Rabe KF, et al. Global strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: GOLD executive summary. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2007;176(6):532–55.
Article Google Scholar
Vollenweider DJ, et al. Antibiotics for exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018;10(10):CD010257.
PubMed Google Scholar
Wilson R, et al. Moxifloxacin versus amoxicillin/clavulanic acid in outpatient acute exacerbations of COPD: MAESTRAL results. Eur Respir J. 2012;40(1):17–27.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Ball P. Epidemiology and treatment of chronic bronchitis and its exacerbations. Chest. 1995;108(2 Suppl):43s–52s.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Erkan L, et al. Role of bacteria in acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2008;3(3):463–7.
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar
Monsó E, et al. Bacterial infection in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A study of stable and exacerbated outpatients using the protected specimen brush. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1995;152(4 Pt 1):1316–20.
Article Google Scholar
Soler N, et al. Bronchial microbial patterns in severe exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) requiring mechanical ventilation. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1998;157(5 Pt 1):1498–505.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Falagas ME, et al. Inadequate statistical power of published comparative cohort studies on ventilator-associated pneumonia to detect mortality differences. Clin Infect Dis. 2010;50(4):468–72.
Article Google Scholar
Dev D, et al. Value of C-reactive protein measurements in exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Respir Med. 1998;92(4):664–7.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Stolz D, et al. Antibiotic treatment of exacerbations of COPD: a randomized, controlled trial comparing procalcitonin-guidance with standard therapy. Chest. 2007;131(1):9–19.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Grant S, et al. A comparison of the reproducibility and the sensitivity to change of visual analogue scales, Borg scales, and Likert scales in normal subjects during submaximal exercise. Chest. 1999;116(5):1208–17.
Article CAS Google Scholar
Download references
Acknowledgements
We thank all the staff members for their contributions to this study.
Funding
Not applicable.
Author information
Authors and Affiliations
Haiphong University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 72A Nguyen Binh Khiem, Ngo Quyen, Haiphong, Vietnam
Phuong Nguyen Thi Thu, Ngan Tran Thi, Hoi Nguyen Thanh & Khue Pham Minh
Haiphong International Hospital, 124 Nguyen Duc Canh, Le Chan, Haiphong, Vietnam
Phuong Nguyen Thi Thu, Ngan Tran Thi & Hoi Nguyen Thanh
Drug Administration of Vietnam, 138A Giang Vo, Ba Dinh, Ha Noi, Vietnam
Minh Ngo Thị Huong
Authors
Phuong Nguyen Thi Thu
View author publications
You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
Minh Ngo Thị Huong
View author publications
You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
Ngan Tran Thi
View author publications
You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
Hoi Nguyen Thanh
View author publications
You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
Khue Pham Minh
View author publications
You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
Contributions
PNTT: conception; study design; acquisition; data analysis, interpretation of data; writing manuscript. MNTH: conception; acquisition; data analysis, interpretation of data; writing manuscript. NTT: conception; study design; acquisition; data analysis, interpretation of data; HNT: study design; acquisition; data analysis, interpretation of data; writing manuscript. KPM: conception; study design; acquisition; data analysis, data accuracy; final approval of the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Corresponding author
Correspondence to Khue Pham Minh.
Ethics declarations
Ethics approval and consent to participate
The study protocols were reviewed and approved by the Hai Phong International Hospital Institutional Review Board. All subjects gave written informed consent before study initiation.
Consent for publication
Not applicable.
Competing interests
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Additional information
Publisher's Note
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Rights and permissions
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data.
Reprints and Permissions
About this article
Cite this article
Thu, P.N.T., Huong, M.N.T., Thi, N.T. et al. Combination antibiotic therapy versus monotherapy in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: an open-label randomized trial. BMC Infect Dis 21, 1019 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12879-021-06687-3
Download citation
Received: 17 August 2021
Accepted: 13 September 2021
Published: 29 September 2021
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s12879-021-06687-3
Share this article
Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:
Get shareable link
Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
Copy to clipboard
Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative
Keywords
Antibiotic therapy
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Beta-lactam antibiotics
Fluoroquinolones
Download PDF
Advertisement
BMC Infectious Diseases
ISSN: 1471-2334
Contact us
Submission enquiries: bmcinfectiousdiseases@biomedcentral.com
General enquiries: ORSupport@springernature.com
Read more on our blogs
Receive BMC newsletters
Manage article alerts
Language editing for authors
Scientific editing for authors
Policies
Accessibility
Press center
Support and Contact
Leave feedback
Careers
Follow BMC
BMC Twitter page
BMC Facebook page
BMC Weibo page
By using this website, you agree to our Terms and Conditions, California Privacy Statement, Privacy statement and Cookies policy. Manage cookies/Do not sell my data we use in the preference centre.
Professor Leon, from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, points out that in the last five years most European countries have been going in a "positive direction" for the first time in decades.
Despite concern that health problems arising from obesity would affect life expectancy in high-income countries, such as the UK, there is no evidence of this to date.
Professor Leon said that deaths from cardiovascular disease in the UK have seen, "some of the largest and most rapid falls of any Western European country, partly due to improvements in treatment as well as reductions in smoking and other risk factors."
"We are yet to see the impact of a generation of people who have been obese from childhood through to adulthood. We can't predict how that will affect life expectancy figures in the future."
"We are definitely seeing type-2 diabetes occurring more in teenagers due to obesity, but this is not immediately being translated into mortality rates."
Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Industry Report Global Market Scenario and Growth strategies - Neptune Pine
The ongoing market research report reveals insight into basic parts of the worldwide Type 1 Diabetes Drugs market, for example, merchant viewpoint, market drivers, and difficulties alongside the provincial research. The report helps the perusers to make an appropriate answer and clearly understand the flow and future situation and patterns of worldwide Type 1 Diabetes Drugs market. The analysis study comes out as a detailed study of helpful rules for new players to understand and identify their techniques and methods all the more effectively so as to keep themselves in front of their competitors.
The report profiles driving organizations of the global Type 1 Diabetes Drugs market alongside the upcoming new challenges who are making an effect on the worldwide market with their most recent progress and improvements.
Strategic Development:The custom examination gives the key advancements of the Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market, new item dispatch, development rate coordinated efforts, associations, joint endeavors, and regional growth of the principal opponents working in the market on a worldwide and commonplace scale.
Click Here To Get a Sample Copy of The Including The Analysis of COVID-19 Impact: https://market.biz/report/global-type-1-diabetes-drugs-market-gm/#requestforsample
Type 1 Diabetes Drugs players/manufacturers:
Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market By Type:
Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market By Applications:
Type 1 Diabetes DrugsMarket Top Regions
If Your Have Any Questions About This Report, Please Reach Out to Us: https://market.biz/report/global-type-1-diabetes-drugs-market-gm/#inquiry
Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market Challenges :
This Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market Research/analysis Report Contains Answers to Your Following Questions:
Which Manufacturing Technology is utilized for Type 1 Diabetes Drugs? What Developments Are Going On in That Technology? Which Trends Are Producing These Developments?
Who Are the Global Key Players in Type 1 Diabetes Drugs advertise? What are Their Company Outline, Their Product Report, and Contact Information?
What Was Global Market Status of Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market? What Was Capacity, Product Price, Share and PROFIT of Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market?
What Is Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Market Chain Analysis by Upstream Raw Materials and Downstream Industry?
What Should Be Entry Tactics, Countermeasures to Economic Impact, and Marketing Channels for Type 1 Diabetes Drugs Industry?
💊What are the possible side effects of cbd oil : Buy Kratom Online 💊
Purchase kratom online Hemp oil and inflammation
Phone +62 (0)7812 467776 (24/7 Support Line buycbdpatch.online)
Potential side effects of giving cbd to my dog? there have been very few studies performed in dogs. at appropriate doses, the potential side effects of cbd what for dogs ( and for humans) are considered relatively minor and are listed below: dry mouth. research has shown that cbd can affect the production of saliva. cbd oil is generally safe to take, but there may be risks and side effectshow cbd oil may react with your other medicationswho shouldn' t take cbd oil? for many possible of us, it may seem as though cannabidiol ( cbd) sprang up out of nowhere. within a few short years, this obscure molecule found in cannabis plants has moved from near- anonymity to a cure- all embraced by millions. from college campuses to.
inhibition of hepatic drug metabolism/ decreased activities of p- glycoprotein and other drug transporters. this side effect of cbd oil was found in studies that tried to explore the chemical' s effects on sleep. exposure to high doses of cbd helped people increase sleeping time, while lower amounts. as it is a naturally obtained substance and no alterations are made to it, in most cases, cbd doesn' t cause any problems. in rare cases, there are some cbd negative side effects such as drowsiness, dry mouth, and lightheadedness. possible side effects clinical research has shown that cbd oil could trigger side effects, the severity and type of which can vary from one person to the next. possible symptoms include:. are there side effects of cbd oil? a number of studies suggest that cbd is generally safe and non- toxic for humans, even up to high doses. however, whilst humans generally tolerate doses of cbd well, some people can be more sensitive than others what to the what are the possible side effects of cbd oil effects of cannabinoids and may experience side effects. cbd oil side effects most studies show what cannabidiol oil to be safe, non- toxic, and very well tolerated even in high doses.
cbd oil side effects are determined by an individual' s particular response to cbd; there are some people who are much more sensitive to its' effects, while other people require a much heavier dose in order to get its. the best advice would be to maintain an awareness of the potential for cbd oil side effects and any adverse reactions. follow the cbd dosage instructions standard medication often comes with a warning on the instructions. learn more what about cannabidiol ( cbd) uses, effectiveness, possible side effects, interactions, dosage, user ratings and products that contain cannabidiol ( cbd). applying an oil containing. unlike the adverse effects of thc, the side effects of cbd oil [ 20] are far more rare and mild. you may experience a mild headache or little lethargic as the effect wears off. all you need to do to avoid these undesirable effects is lower your dosage.
see all full list on cbdsafely. possible side effects of cbd in cats as you have learned, cbd has plenty of benefits for both humans and animals. then again, if you what are like most pet owners, you want to make sure that your cat will not experience any unpleasant side effects when using cbd. but, it is still possible to have too much cbd. cbd oil is well tolerated by most people, what and it is considered safe. it is difficult to take too much cbd because the amount you would need to take is way more than the average person would need. in most cases taking too much cbd oil will result in lethargy or diarrhea. most of these cbd negative side effects studies conclude that this cannabinoid is safe and virtually possible free of side effects. for those diagnosed with a serious disease and concerned about cbd oil side effects and want to incorporating another substance into your treatment regimen, it appears that cbd doesn' t pose any threat what of making any.
there also what what are concerns about both the quality of cbd oil being produced and its potential side effects, the experts added. studies on cbd also have raised concerns about possible interactions. side effects of cbd share on pinterest if a person stops taking cbd, they may experience insomnia. the cannabinoid what are the possible side effects of cbd oil receptors in the brain do not act the same way as many other drug receptors. are there negative effects from cbd oil? developing side- effects while using cannabidiol is possible, but may vary from one person to another. one person may experience only one side- effect while what using oil that contains cannabidiol, while another may experience multiple side- effects or more severe side- effects. cbd oil usually doesn' t have any major risks for users. however, side effects are possible. these include: depression. low blood pressure. withdrawal symptoms, such as irritability and insomnia.
see all full list on thecannabisradar. cbd is unlikely to cause serious side effects, although it can interact with other drugs - which could potentially be serious. generally speaking, the side effects of cbd oil should not be of too much concern for the average person. what is kratom capsules. however, it' s recommended to speak to your doctor before beginning regular cbd use. medicinal interactions & side effects with cbd oil cbd is known to interact with several prescribed medications that come with a " grapefruit warning ". there are 32 common drugs that may have interactions with grapefruit and alternative supplements such as cbd, effectively increasing their effects. sadly, diarrhea is a possible side effect of cbd and mostly caused by the other ingredients that are combined with the cbd. a common culprit is mct oil. cbd actually works to protect your gastrointestinal tract, but mct oil can irritate your stomach lining when you begin to take larger amounts.
this irritation is what leads to diarrhea. see all full list on canabomedicalclinic. side effects of cbd seniors should know about cbd is a non- addictive, non- psychoactive natural therapy many seniors can use to relieve various health ailments, from chronic pain to insomnia. cbd has shown to be very safe and well- tolerated, even in very high doses ( up to 1, 500 mg/ day— possible significantly higher than any of the recommended doses above). can you take too what much cbd oil? while some studies have found that the use of cbd oil increased appetite in test groups, other studies have reported the opposite. a thorough review of the potential side effects of cbd oil found " when weight and appetite were measured as part of a measurement battery for side effects, results were inconclusive, " in test subjects who were given regular doses of cbd over a long period of time. should i worry about the side what effects of cbd oil? cbd tinctures are a great way to incorporate what full- spectrum cbd oil into your everyday life. they' re versatile and potent, and they can be used in a variety of different ways.
hemp market is a rapidly growing industry, and cbd oil products are still new to many. in this piece, however, we aim to bring some balance to the equation by taking a look at the possible side effects of cbd. common misconceptions about cbd in an emerging industry, there are always going to be hucksters peddling snake oil and enough misinformation to fill harvard' s library. final thoughts: the negative side effects of cbd tinctures. luckily, cbd has very few side effects, and those which do occur are not severe. as a result, it is considered safe to take for what most people. possible side effects of cbd in dogs. while there' s no scientific data on the side effects of cbd usage for dogs, there are potential side effects based on how cbd affects humans.
the possible side effects of cbd oil. there have been no reports of any serious health damage experienced after the intake of cbd oil by anyone in any part of the world. however, a few minor health concerns have arisen in cases of adverse reactions in a small number of people. although research is still needed in this area, cbd oil has been.
Satheesh Ramineni, MD | Orthopedic Surgeon—Joint Replacement, Precision Orthopedics & Sports Medicine : Precision Orthopedics & Sports Medicine
Satheesh Ramineni, MD FAAOS
PhysicianSatheesh Ramineni, MD FAAOS
Scott Berkenblit, MD
Lisa Broome, PA-C
Roy Carls, MD
Cathy Cimaglia, DPM
Gregg Ferrero, MD
Sankara Kothakota, MD
David Lin, DPM FACFAS
John Naiman, MD
Varun Patibanda, MD
Daniel Perez, DPM FACFAS
Kirsten Poehling-Monaghan, MD
Wayne Rozran, MD
Peter Trent, MD
Warren Yu, MD
Satheesh K. Ramineni, MD, is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon specializing in hip and knee replacement, shoulder replacement & other shoulder surgery, fracture care, orthopedic foot & ankle surgery, as well as general orthopedics. He has been practicing orthopedic surgery since 2011.
He is a fellowship-trained orthopedic surgeon who completed multiple fellowships including a fellowship in Adult Reconstructive Orthopaedic surgery (Hip & Knee Replacement Surgery) at The New York University Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York, a fellowship in Orthopaedic Foot & Ankle Surgery at Pennsylvania Hospital/University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and a fellowship in Orthopaedic Trauma Surgery at The University of Toledo Medical Center in Toledo.
He specializes in direct anterior hip replacement, navigation-guided knee replacement, complex primary and revision hip and knee replacement, as well as primary & revision shoulder replacement. He also has expertise in treating fractures & orthopedic injuries and in orthopedic foot & ankle surgery.
If you have an orthopedic need, we have you covered. We can even accommodate new appointments within 24 hours for acute injuries.
