TREATING ALCOHOLISM | CImages.me
Submitted by ub on Thu, 02/07/2013 - 13:45
Alcohol withdrawal requires drug treatment only in a minority of cases — mainly when there is a risk of delirium or seizures. There are no fundamentally new ideas about how to go about it. The best-tested approach is to substitute a safer sedative — usually a benzodiazepine, such as diazepam (Valium), chlordiazepoxide (Librium), or lorazepam (Ativan) — and gradually reduce the dose.
The main risks of these drugs are drowsiness, loss of coordination, and mild withdrawal symptoms. Propranolol (Inderal) and other beta-adrenergic blockers can help ease withdrawal by reducing tremors and lowering heart rate and blood pressure. Added antipsychotic or anticonvulsant medications have been found effective in a few studies.
Disulfiram (Antabuse) prevents the liver from metabolizing alcohol normally and causes a toxic breakdown product to accumulate. If they drink, patients taking disulfiram can become nauseated and even seriously ill; disulfiram itself can also cause hepatitis, which in rare cases is lethal. Disulfiram is supposed to deter drinking, but it does not affect the desire for alcohol, and persuading patients to continue taking it can be difficult.
There is some evidence that disulfiram may be effective for older, severely alcoholic patients who are carefully monitored by family members and professionals. But the results of controlled studies have been inconsistent, and the use of disulfiram is declining.
Only three drugs are FDA-approved for the treatment of alcoholism itself — the persistent craving for alcohol and use that persists despite unpleasant and harmful consequences long after physical withdrawal symptoms end.
This narcotic antagonist has been approved since 1995 as a treatment for alcoholism. Taken daily in pill form, it lowers the activity of natural opioids that are stimulated by alcohol as well. It reduces the desire to drink and especially the craving that leads to relapse after a first drink. It's recommended mainly for abstinent alcoholics who are trying to avoid relapse, but also for some who have not been able to stop drinking entirely. The popularity of naltrexone is growing. In a survey of substance abuse treatment centers in New England, use of naltrexone increased from 14% in 1997 to 25% in 2001.
The side effects, which include nausea (5%–10% of patients), depression, upset stomach, headache, and drowsiness, usually go away within a week. There is some risk of liver inflammation, but patients recover when the drug is discontinued. Compliance is a problem with naltrexone as well as disulfiram. It works only for patients with sufficient motivation to take the prescribed pills and keep their appointments with physicians and mental health professionals.
In many but not all controlled studies, patients taking naltrexone achieve longer abstinence and have fewer relapses than those taking the placebo. A meta-analysis of 29 studies in many countries found that naltrexone reduced the risk of relapse or a return to heavy drinking during the first three months after withdrawal by 36%. The effect does not persist when patients stop taking the drug. In a study reported in the New England Journal of Medicine, a year of naltrexone treatment did not help long-term alcoholic men with severe symptoms.
To prolong the effects of naltrexone and reduce the temptation to skip taking a pill, investigators are considering a once-a-month injection for gradual release of the drug. In a six-month study, researchers at Harvard Medical School compared this treatment to a placebo (both groups of patients also had psychosocial therapy). They found that intramuscular injection of naltrexone reduced heavy drinking by about 25% and raised the rate of abstinence.
Nalmefene, a longer-acting opiate antagonist related to naltrexone, has been found effective in two small controlled studies, but this research is preliminary.
Acamprosate has been used widely throughout the world in alcoholism treatment since the 1980s, but it was approved by the FDA only in 2004. It lowers the activity of receptors for the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, possibly steadying a nerve circuit in the brain of an alcohol-dependent person. Acamprosate takes about a week to work; the main side effects are diarrhea and occasional headache.
Acamprosate is approved "for the maintenance of abstinence from alcohol in patients with alcohol dependence who are abstinent at treatment initiation" and who are also receiving psychosocial therapy. The FDA adds that it "may not be effective in patients who are actively drinking or those who abuse other substances in addition to alcohol." The theory is that only abstinence brings the hypersensitivity of glutamate receptors that acamprosate reduces.
Several large studies have found acamprosate to be effective. In European trials, abstinence rates were two to three times greater in patients taking acamprosate than in those taking a placebo. In some of those studies, the effect seemed to persist even after the patients stopped taking the drug.
Compliance is still a problem; alcoholic patients will usually not continue to take acamprosate unless they are supervised and committed to abstinence.
Topiramate and other anticonvulsants
Anticonvulsant drugs are used routinely in the treatment of bipolar disorder and schizophrenia as well as epilepsy. Interest is growing in other uses, including alcoholism. Prospects are best for topiramate (Topamax), an anticonvulsant that stimulates the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and, like acamprosate, reduces the activity of glutamate. It may also slow the release of dopamine in the brain's reward system, which is promoted by alcohol and other addictive substances.
The main potential side effects are dizziness, tingling in the hands and feet, weight loss, and temporary loss of memory or concentration.
Topiramate has been found effective as a short-term treatment for abstaining alcoholics who also receive behavioral therapy. In a three-month placebo-controlled study reported in 2004, it reduced binge drinking, increased the abstinence rate, and improved overall well-being in alcoholic patients. A large controlled study on its effects in drinking alcoholics is under way.
Two other anticonvulsants, carbamazepine (Tegretol) and valproate (Depakote), have also shown some promise. In a six-month study, valproate reduced alcohol consumption in patients with bipolar disorder who were also taking lithium.
The antinauseant ondansetron in combination with other drugs may help some alcoholic patients. In early research, a skin patch containing mecamylamine has shown some promise; this drug is now used to help smokers quit. Baclofen, another drug that increases GABA activity, has been found to reduce alcohol consumption and craving in some animal experiments and human trials.
Drug treatment for related disorders
Alcoholic patients have high rates of other psychiatric disorders, especially depression, anxiety disorders, attention deficit disorder, and drug addictions. Some of these symptoms can be treated with standard psychiatric drugs. In alcoholic patients with major depression, antidepressants and psychosocial therapy usually improve depressive symptoms but have little effect on drinking.
Antidepressants are all equally effective; selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as fluoxetine (Prozac) and sertraline (Zoloft) are preferred because on average their side effects have been better tolerated. SSRIs also reduce alcohol consumption in some animal experiments, although not in most human studies. But in one trial, sertraline reduced drinking in patients with no family history of alcoholism and relatively mild symptoms.
For people with alcoholism and an anxiety disorder, some physicians will prescribe a benzodiazepine for a few weeks, although others consider that risky. The alternative anti-anxiety drug buspirone (BuSpar) has been found effective for the anxiety symptoms of alcoholics in a few studies. In one small controlled study, fluoxetine reduced drinking in alcoholic patients with social anxiety disorder (social phobia).
The antipsychotic drug clozapine may reduce heavy drinking in schizophrenic patients. But it has serious side effects, including weight gain, drowsiness, and a 1% risk of a potentially lethal blood disorder that requires constant monitoring. Researchers are also looking at the antipsychotic drug aripiprazole (Abilify), which has a unique mechanism of action and may be freer of side effects than the alternatives.
As of 2005, studies are also looking into combinations of naltrexone and acamprosate. The hope is that they will complement each other because they have different biological mechanisms and may be effective at different stages of the disorder. Naltrexone is supposed to reduce cravings in a person who is still drinking, while acamprosate diminishes the conditioned craving that may plague an abstinent alcoholic at the sight of a bar or bottle or the first sip.
It's not clear whether this distinction is legitimate. The COMBINE (Combining Medications and Behavioral Interventions) study, completed but not yet analyzed as of mid-2005, may provide some answers. More than 1,300 patients were divided into groups and assigned at random to four months of treatment with naltrexone alone, acamprosate alone, both medications, or a placebo along with one of several psychosocial therapies. The outcome will be measured by the rate of abstinence and the amount of binge drinking.
There is also much other research activity. As of 2005, nearly two dozen drugs already available for other purposes are being tested for their effects on alcoholism. Other drugs are in earlier stages, undergoing animal testing.
Drawing conclusions from these trials may be difficult, though. Several months is not long enough to gauge long-term effects, and alcoholics can relapse even after many years.
Another problem is that when people with other psychiatric disorders are excluded from clinical trials, the results may not apply fully to the majority of alcoholics. For example, there is still little research on drug treatment for people who have bipolar disorder or attention deficit disorder along with alcohol abuse problems.
The complexity of alcohol's effects on the body and brain creates further difficulties. Alcohol influences almost every neurotransmitter system in the brain and has a specific affinity for none. It may also cause long-term changes in neuronal gene expression (activation). Different types of alcoholism — early-onset and late-onset, severe and mild, with and without a family history — may be different genetically and respond differently to drugs and psychosocial treatments. It is unlikely that any single approach will ever work for all alcoholics. These complications make the potential availability of more drug treatments especially welcome.
Drug-eluting stents (DES) are a medical success story: In the four years since they were approved, in-stent restenosis rates have gone from the 25%-30% associated with bare-metal stents to the single digits.
Thanks to this track record, the world market for stents has doubled to $5 billion—despite the fact patients with DES must take aspirin or clopidogrel to prevent thromboses.
It’s easy to forget not all questions concerning DES have been answered, despite their wide acceptance and good overall outcomes.
One concern is discontinuation of antiplatelet therapy for DES patients who require noncardiac surgery.
In the November-December 2007 Journal of Hospital Medicine, senior author Amir Jaffer, MD, and colleagues at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio studied the relationship between a patient’s time on antiplatelet medication and the consequences of discontinuing those agents in preparation for surgery.
Read this Research
Find this study (“Discontinuation of antiplatelet therapy prior to low-risk noncardiac surgery in patients with drug-eluting stents: a retrospective cohort study”) in the November-December 2007 Journal of Hospital Medicine.
“This is a common clinical conundrum,” says Dr. Jaffer, director of the Cleveland Clinic’s Internal Medicine Preoperative Assessment Consultation and Treatment (IMPACT) Center. “We face this question almost every day in our practice relative to perioperative care.”
Patients slated for noncardiac surgery are seen first at the IMPACT center, where hospitalists conduct the preoperative evaluation.
Data show that patients with bare-metal stents run a high risk of stent thrombosis if they undergo noncardiac surgery within two to six weeks of stent placement.
But information on DES is hard to come by, “so we decided to try to get a handle on the safety of stopping these drugs,” says Dr. Jaffer.
The authors, led by Daniel J. Brotman, MD, studied all patients who had undergone DES placement and were evaluated for noncardiac surgery at the IMPACT Center from July 2003 to July 2005. They examined 30-day rates of postoperative myocardial infarction (MI), DES thrombosis, major bleeding, and all-cause mortality—all relative to how long the patient had been on and off antiplatelet therapy.
The type of surgery each patient underwent was classified by invasiveness and anticipated blood loss, according to the system developed by L. Reuven Pasternak, MD, vice dean, Bayview Campus, Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, and his colleagues.1
The categories range from one, which includes cystoscopy, breast biopsy, and other minor procedures that involve little if any blood loss, to five, which encompasses highly invasive procedures with anticipated blood losses in excess of 1,500 cc, such as major vascular repair.
The authors studied all patients who had undergone drug-eluting stent placement and were evaluated for noncardiac surgery at Cleveland Clinic in Ohio from July 2003 to July 2005. They examined 30-day rates of postoperative myocardial infarction, thrombosis, major bleeding, and all-cause mortality—all relative to how long the patient had been on and off antiplatelet therapy
A total of 114 patients met the study criteria. Seventy-five (66%) of the patients were men, and the median age was 71.
The most common comorbidities were diabetes (in 41% of patients), a history of coronary bypass (34%), and chronic renal insufficiency (20%). Most patients (73%) received sirolimus (Rapamune) stents; 28% received paclitaxel (Onxol) stents; and 33% had more than one DES.
Of the patients studied, 69 (61%) underwent surgery more than 180 days after receiving their DES; 30 (26%) had their procedures within 91-180 days of receiving the stent; and 15 (13%) had their operations within 90 days of stenting.
The most common procedures were major orthopedic surgeries such as hip replacement (34.2% of patients), and ophthalmologic procedures like cataract removal (26.3%).
1 2 Next
Surgery
Share:
Comment on this Article Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Δ
Related Articles
Optimizing perioperative cardiac risk assessment and management for noncardiac surgery
November 1, 2007
What is the sum of evidence supporting perioperative cardiac risk assessment and risk reduction?
Earlier discharge after surgery may come at the expense of post-discharge complications
November 1, 2007
“Our ultimate takeaway message is that there is a black hole that needs to be addressed between the time a patient gets discharged from the hospital to their first post-operative visit.”
Surgery needed in nearly half of appendicitis patients treated with antibiotics
November 1, 2007
“Substantial numbers of patients report a preference for antibiotics, even if appendectomy may ultimately be necessary.”
Medical comanagement did not improve hip fracture outcomes
November 1, 2007
Does medical comanagement improve perioperative outcomes in patients admitted with hip fracture?
About The Hospitalist
Contact Us
The Editors
Editorial Board
Authors
Publishing Opportunities
Subscribe
Advertise
Copyright © 2000-2022 by the Society of Hospital Medicine and related companies. All rights reserved. ISSN 1553-085X
With diabetes we need to consider all of the blood fats (what doctors call lipids). These include:
This is the so-called "bad" cholesterol whose levels are closely associated with the risk of heart disease. The level of cholesterol in diabetics is probably only slightly higher than in the general population, but the cholesterol particle (specifically the LDL particle) itself is made somewhat differently — it's smaller and denser. Even with equal amounts of LDL cholesterol in the blood, the diabetic person will experience more hardening of the arteries than the non-diabetic with their larger, less dense cholesterol particles.
Since high blood glucose and other factors further increase the risk of hardening of the arteries, we aim for much lower levels of LDL cholesterol in diabetics than in individuals who do not have the disease. Plaque and hardening of the arteries do not occur as readily if the LDL cholesterol is low. An LDL level of less than 2.6 mmol/L is therefore recommended for all individuals with diabetes.
A person's level of LDL cholesterol is mostly controlled by genetics, but may also be strongly influenced by obesity and a high-fat diet. Methods to lower LDL cholesterol are therefore dietary, including smaller portions, promoting weight loss, and eating less fat. If LDL cholesterol is not satisfactory with these measures, medications work quite well.
By now everybody has heard of cholesterol, which is a credit to the news media. But almost no one has heard of a blood fat called "Triglycerides", and in the Type 2 diabetic this may be just as important as cholesterol. Some studies in diabetics have shown a greater connection between heart disease and triglycerides than cholesterol. This is extremely important because many people with Type 2 diabetes — 30 to 50% or more — have high triglycerides. So they must be watched and treated aggressively. If you are tracking your own triglycerides, aim for levels below 2.0 mmol/L, and, even better, less than 1.7 mmol/L.
Triglycerides can be lowered by losing weight, eating fewer carbohydrates, exercising and cutting down on alcohol. If these measures don't work, medication can be very effective.
HDL is the so called "good" cholesterol, because a lot of it will protect you from heart and blood vessel disease. The opposite is also true — less HDL means less protection, and much higher risk of disease. This is because an important function of HDL is to transport LDL cholesterol away from the artery to the liver, where it can be metabolized (broken down). If LDL is not in the artery, it can't contribute to the formation of the plaque that makes the artery "hard".
Diabetics usually have low levels of HDL cholesterol, resulting in much higher rates of heart disease. Ideally, the level of HDL cholesterol in the blood should be greater than 0.9 mmol/L, the higher the better.
Methods to raise HDL cholesterol include weight loss, exercise, and if you are a smoker, quitting. Limited amounts of alcohol can also raise HDL. If necessary, medication is also capable of raising HDL cholesterol, although not usually to a great extent.
In someone with diabetes, the measurement of total cholesterol by itself is almost totally useless. It must be taken in conjuction with the fractions of cholesterol and triglycerides. There are therefore no normal limits for the isolate total cholesterol. Taken in relation to the HDL cholesterol, the ratio of total cholesterol to HDL should be less than 4.0.
Urinary Incontinence: Are you peeing your pants? | Urinary Incontinence: Are you peeing your pants? Causes, Treatment, Cure, Symptoms, Prevention | Modasta
Modasta // Health 360°//Urinary Incontinence: Are you peeing your pants?
Urinary Incontinence: Are you peeing your pants?
By Modasta Editorial	| Updated on: August 10, 2018 | Published on: May 16 2016
Top tips to prevent Urinary Tract Infections
Urinary Tract Infections| Watch Now
Urinary problems in aged men
Urinary incontinence refers to the accidental leaking of urine. While it is not a disease by itself, it is a symptom which suggests that something may be wrong with your urinary tract.
The urinary system is a combination of nerves and muscles that must work in tandem for it to function properly. A mismatch in either of them can lead to incontinence. Following are the some of the causes of incontinence:
Nerve damage in men due to prolonged and unmanaged or mismanaged diabetes impacts the bladder control.
Nervous system diseases such as stroke, Parkinson's diseases, or multiple sclerosis can also cause bladder issues.
Spinal cord injury can interrupt the nerve signals that control the bladder muscles and thus cause incontinence.
Prostrate conditions such as surgery, removal or radiation treatment due to cancer, or enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia) can also lead to bladder incontinence.
Bladder contractions due to urinary tract infections, prostatitis, kidney or bladder stones, can cause urge incontinence.
Urethral stricture causing narrowing of the urethra can also lead to overflow continence.
Some medications such as diuretics, decongestants, antihistamines are also known to cause urinary incontinence.
Substance abuse such as caffeine, alcohol consumption, carbonated drinks, artificial sweeteners, spicy foods, etc. can stimulate the bladder and increase the urine volume.
Stress incontinence – Is the involuntary loss of urine during coughing, laughing, sneezing, lifting, etc., activities which exert abdominal pressure.
Urge incontinence – happens when you have an overwhelming urge to urinate and you are unable to control it.
Overflow incontinence – Is the constant dribbling of the urine due to frequent and incomplete urination.
Total incontinence – Can happen when your sphincter muscle is no longer functional. You tend to leak urine all the time.
Functional incontinence – This occurs when you are unable to reach the bathroom in time due to hurdles or if you were physically unable to get yourself there in time.
The urinary incontinence occurrence differs in men and women based on the age factors. For instance, in childhood, the girls tend to get better bladder control earlier than boys, whereas adult women tend to have this condition more than men due to anatomical pelvic region differences and pregnancy and childbirth. Age does play a role in the prevalence of this symptom, is not an inevitable cause of incontinence.
If you suspect that you have been leaking urine, while sneezing, coughing, exerting pressure, sleeping, or unable to control urine, you must visit your physician immediately. Your doctor may use the following methods to determine the cause of your symptoms and provide treatment options:
Medical history – Your doctor will seek your medical history, regarding major illnesses or surgeries that you may have, your lifestyle habits, your medications prescribed and non-prescribed.
Physical examination – Digital examination to check for prostate enlargement or any nerve damages.
EEG and EMG – Your doctor may ask you to get electroencephalogram and electromyogram to determine the cause of loss of bladder control.
Ultrasound – Abdominal and transrectal ultrasound may be done to look for images of the prostate or any mass.
Urodynamic testing – This testing checks the bladder's ability to store urine and empty it steadily and completely and tests the sphincter control mechanism. It can help in identifying limited bladder capacity, overactive or underactive bladder, or any form of urinary obstructions.
Treatment of urinary incontinence varies from person to person and case to case. Depending on the cause and the severity of the conditions, your doctor may recommend a combination of treatment options. Many times, a simple adjustment in the lifestyle can treat the problem. Behavioural changes such as avoiding fluids at the certain time of the day can also help control the incontinence. Your doctor can also teach you kegel exercises to strengthen your pelvic muscles which help hold the urine in the bladder. A urinary continence device like an artificial sphincter or catheter may also be recommended. If none of the above treatments works, you may choose to try medicines or a continence device—either an artificial sphincter or a catheter. Sometimes, surgery to may be required. For some men, surgery is the best option.
Incontinence, though socially may be an awkward situation, however, it is like any other condition such as arthritis or diabetes. With proper diagnosis and treatment, this condition can be solved. It is important that you neither ignore or hide it and visit your physician promptly.
Tags: mens health urology
Urinary Incontinence in Men – National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease – Accessed on May 7, 2016 – http://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-topics/urologic-disease/urinary-incontinence-in-men/Pages/facts.aspx
Urinary incontinence – Causes — NHS — Accessed on May 7, 2016 – http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Incontinence-urinary/Pages/Causes.aspx
Urinary incontinence in men – UptoDate — Accessed on May 7, 2016 – http://www.uptodate.com/home.
Overactive bladder –HealthCommunities — Accessed on May 7, 2016 – http://www.healthcommunities.com/overactive-bladder/primary-secondary-incontinence.shtml
Anti gun control speech outlines | Research paper Academic Writing Service
Check out our top free essays on persuasive speech outline gun control to help you write your own essay. Should more gun control laws be member of hunters against gun fundamental and as essential to maintaining liberty as are the rights of free speech. White house outlines gun control moves president obama sheds tears during gun speech obama expected to launch new gun control. President obama's speech on gun control bill defeat they worried that the gun lobby would spend a lot of money and paint them as anti. (results page 2) view and download gun control essays examples also discover topics, titles, outlines, thesis statements, and conclusions for your gun control essay.
Knowing how to create a perfect persuasive speech outline can make the whole writing process much easier for any student so here's what you. White house outlines gun control moves president obama sheds tears during gun speech as he called on the nation to condemn violence against law. Research paper outline gun control - download as word doc (doc), pdf file (pdf), text file (txt) or read online gun control outline. Gun control advocates hailed them as a breakthrough in what who attended mr obama's speech tearful obama outlines steps to curb gun.
News about guns and gun control, including commentary and archival articles published in the new york times latest search search clear the case against. Specific purpose: to persuade my audience i will explain to you how gun control does not work, the benefits of firearms gun control persuasive speech. Essays - largest database of quality sample essays and research papers on anti gun control speech outlines.
What is a good thesis for gun control a: hartness library and midway college provide a comprehensive list of research paper topics and ideas against gun control. Here's a good thesis statement on gun control: shooting stuff is fun, and controlling one' s gun safely why are a lot of americans against gun control. How the nazis used gun control the corner were deprived of rights such as free speech and firearm possession just an unfamiliar form of anti.
Gun control essay outline thesis- this country needs stricter, non-negotiable gun laws the second amendment gun holders so desperately hide behind has been misinterpreted for centuries. All hot topics bullying community service this is why i am pro-gun control be taken off the streets and the ones against gun control who believe it is a.
Getting topics on hamlet an fresh essay topics on gun control: how to be creative gun control another area you can focus on is the arguments used by the anti. More about persuasive speech: against gun control essay an argument against gun control essay topics poetry harvard classics saints.
Brief speech on antigun control this feature is not available right now please try again later.
Gun control is a safety issue, an the gun control legislation of this era resulted from prejudice against an resisting crime with a gun does not.
Working outline for gun control research paper broad topic: gun control narrow topic: outlawing guns leaves criminals armed statement of purpose: i. We've found 12 worthwhile gun control articles anti-gun control this resource contains both articles and videos about a wide array of gun-related topics. The nra opposed the brady bill and offered an alternative background check provision that gun-control after obama's gun speech ask factcheck q. Free term papers & essays - an argument against gun control, speech. Meghan pradko mr koch english 9-f 6 december 2008 anti gun control speech the phrase "gun control" can mean many things it can be. The five minute nra speech that would change the gun control debate anti-gun newspapers have even published the names and private addresses of. Argumentative essay 1 argumentative essay 2 gun control supporters explains that laws against guns are really laws against self-defense, and mandatory gun.
tesco plc fresh and easy in the united states 9 511 009 ayodele odelana cv valencia bridges to success essay an analysis of the views between orthodox and protestant christianity thesis about effects of computer games to students dulce et decorum est by wilfred a study to understand the extent of the problem of alcohol abuse in college campuses things fall apart cause and effect edihsc 023 critique of cinderella a story of sibling rivalry and oedipal conflicts essay schrijven over jezelf microcredit a financial innovation personal experience in communication
In the face of the epidemic, how can blockchain improve the ability to govern according to law? Blockchain Network
In the face of the epidemic, how can blockchain improve the ability to govern according to law?
The pneumonia outbreak of the new coronavirus (2019-nCov) unfortunately began in Wuhan, and the nationwide effort to fight against the epidemic, but many deficiencies were also exposed in the process. This involves a major public event governance approach and is a social problem. Can the blockchain improve the ability to govern major public events in accordance with the law?
On the afternoon of February 5th, President Xi hosted the third meeting of the Central Committee for the Comprehensive Management of the Law and delivered an important speech. He emphasized that, under the centralized and unified leadership of the Party Central Committee, the safety of the people's lives and physical health must always be given top priority, and efforts should be made from all aspects of legislation, law enforcement, justice, and law compliance to comprehensively improve the ability to prevent, control and govern according to law. Provide strong legal protection for epidemic prevention and control.
In the face of major public events, challenges have been raised in decision-making efficiency, resource deployment, and information disclosure. We need to have an efficient emergency response mechanism, a flat, atomized mechanism that gives grassroots institutions more decision-making authority to take Measures can make more use of popular power in the face of crisis. However, this will expose an original question: what if someone spreads rumors and takes advantage of opportunities for personal gain? Because in major public incidents, it is easier to touch fish in the muddy waters and rob them in the fire. Whether it is intentional or not, it is difficult to trace the evidence in complicated affairs.
Supply Chain + Blockchain: How does the blockchain set off a global supply chain revolution?
China's blockchain ambition: Who is it?
When the recovery and counterattack become the subject words, is the spring of the blockchain really coming?
Comment: What value does the blockchain provide?
The technical characteristics of the blockchain help to solve this problem. The blockchain can help establish an ex post audit mechanism through technologies such as digital identity, existence proof, and process proof. With the post-hoc audit based on the blockchain, the pre-review can be turned into a post-hoc review, and the result correctness review can be turned into a process rationality review. In this way, the emergency mechanism for major public events can operate efficiently, relevant individuals and institutions can act quickly, and all information leaves credentials on the blockchain, which cannot be tampered with, and meets post-transparent review and verification. As long as it can be reviewed and held accountable afterwards, Yang Shan can eliminate evil, deter those who spread rumors, and fish who are troubled by muddy waters, and let real voices and actions deal with the crisis.
1. Epidemic discovery
It can be said that the sooner the epidemic is detected, the easier it is to control. A transparent and accurate information will help to control the epidemic, but rumors can cause unnecessary panic. However, the emergence of the epidemic is unpredictable, and the earlier the information becomes the more obscure. Due to insufficient evidence, it becomes very cautious and inefficient when it is reported and announced to the society.
If the epidemic information is managed as a process, this contradiction can be alleviated well. The gbn epidemic reporting mechanism based on the blockchain is first a real-name reporting information, followed by the investigation and review opinions of professional institutions, and possibly the conclusions of other scientific research institutions, and finally the conclusions of the competent unit. The epidemic information that the public sees is three-dimensional information that includes the entire confirmation process. Official institutions only need to provide information interpretation and level guidance. For example, an information that has not been verified by any professional organization need not be overreacted. The process of establishing the epidemic news is also transparent to help the people gradually digest the information and prepare in time to avoid panic caused by the sudden announcement of the information.
2. Publication of epidemic data
The epidemic data (confirmed and suspected quantities) and regional distribution are important basis for the public to judge the epidemic situation. The timely and transparent publication of data can reduce people's random guessing. Different diagnosis standards and methods will lead to large differences in data. To prevent large deviations in data, authoritative confirmation methods (such as P4 laboratory testing) are often used. This will result in low confirmation efficiency, and some cases cannot be confirmed in a timely manner, which will adversely affect aspects such as epidemic prevention decisions and resource allocation.
The publication of epidemic data can also adopt process management, from the suspected report of the attending doctor, the entry of clinical examination data, to CDC testing, and confirmation by the competent unit, and the entire process is recorded on the blockchain. The official has done classification screening and interpretation, and the public can view different levels of data according to the degree of confirmation.
3. Material donation
In the event of a major public incident, it is important to mobilize the strength of private donations, and everyone can work together to cope with the crisis. However, there is a problem of trust management in material donation, the unified allocation of resources, and the problem of logistics and efficiency. Normally, the Red Cross system is used for unified processing, but in the face of major public events, relying solely on the Red Cross system may cause bottlenecks in efficiency and manpower, which will cause obstacles to the deployment of materials.
Under the emergency mechanism of major public events, it is necessary to allow non-governmental organizations or individuals to participate in the management of material donations. The blockchain system can make up for problems such as material matching, logistics deployment, and efficiency. The first is the shortage of individuals or units to send gifts on the chain, and then the official agency confirms the emergency level, the donor makes a purposeful donation, and the non-profit organization or professional agency gives suggestions on the type and quality of the material. The key information of the process can be tracked on the chain, which realizes the transparent and credibility of public welfare donations and high efficiency, and is also conducive to the trust management of public welfare organizations.
4.Online government affairs
Due to the need for epidemic control, the people's government affairs cannot be handled in the counter and transferred to online processing. The use of blockchain can solve the real-name authentication and the business registration process, as well as the coordination of data exchange and approval processes between different departments. For example, the government affairs system of Hangzhou Xiacheng District in which Zhongke Fuyun participates, the blockchain can help improve running at most once, even without running once.
5 , business office
Affected by the prevention and control of the epidemic, many companies were unable to resume work normally, and some companies chose to work remotely online. However, during the business office process, paper contracts could not be signed, and only electronic contracts could be used for business cooperation. Among many solutions, the use of blockchain for electronic signing and contract certification can improve the legal effect. For example, the legally signed contract signing process can complete identity authentication, contract signing, certificate management through mobile phone operations, and use blocks. The chain stores key credentials.
In short, informatization tools can help to respond more efficiently and transparently to major public events such as the epidemic, and also help coordinate people's forces. The role of the blockchain in it is to establish a trust mechanism so that event information and emergency response processes can be audited, so that the emergency mechanism for major public events can be effectively operated, and the ability to govern major public events can be improved according to law. It is hoped that the blockchain technology can be widely used in this field.
(Note: The author is a researcher of the Blockchain Legal Innovation Joint Laboratory and a researcher of the China Blockchain Standardization Application Laboratory.)
« Blockchain technology developer Zawadi announces integration with event website Eventbrite to provide tokenized tickets
Cryptocurrency overwhelming, Trump releases fiscal 2021 budget to increase regulation »
Crypto trader Bitcoin Macro: Bitcoin is the Swiss bank account in your pocket
Facebook is trying to recruit dozens of business partners to build a cryptocurrency-based payment system
Is there any chance here? A true blockchain startup story
Belgian blockchain giant SettleMint announces launch of its business in India
Binance Futures first month data: total trading volume of 1.23 million BTC, matching performance of 100,000 single / second
A-share blockchain sector market rose 0.46% overall
Li Lihui: We should promptly formulate systems for digital currency issuance and market supervision, and appropriately relax digital financial market access.
September monthly report | Bitcoin 8000 US dollars up and down shock, USDT market value is shortly listed as "fourth"
iSpecimen | iSpecimen Deploys its Specimen Management Technology
LEXINGTON, Mass. Jan. — iSpecimen®, a provider of on-demand human biospecimens to the life science community, announced today the deployment of the industry's first federated specimen management system that greatly accelerates the pace at which scientists can obtain biospecimens for their research. The company's Specimen Management System enables iSpecimen to deliver human biospecimens to the academic, diagnostic and pharmaceutical research community faster and with more consistent quality than traditional manual selection processes. The company also announced the availability of clinical specimen remnants – such as plasma, serum and urine – using this pioneering technology.
"In today's world of personalized medicine, researchers struggle to procure biospecimens from trusted sources. Often, they have to cobble together specimens and data from dozens of sources just to find enough specimens for their studies," said Christopher Ianelli, M.D., Ph.D., founder and CEO of iSpecimen. "The combination of iSpecimen's pioneering Specimen Management System along with our robust network of clinical laboratory partners provides researchers with a steady supply of high-quality, annotated biospecimens."
iSpecimen collaborates with hospitals and commercial laboratories throughout the United States to gain access to their clinical remnant specimens in order to make them available to researchers. Prior to the deployment of its technology, matching researchers' requirements to available specimens and associated data was a manual, time-consuming, and often error-prone process. Additionally, federating a request for specimens across multiple laboratories to gain the efficiencies from a broader patient population and larger number of specimens was nearly impossible to manage. iSpecimen's Specimen Management System automates the process of specimen selection, handling and annotation across its broad network of laboratories to make it fast and easy for scientists to find the precise specimens they need for their research programs.
"By using our technology to prospectively collect clinical remnants and annotating them with data directly accessed from a laboratory's information system, we greatly speed up specimen collection and reduce the errors that occur with manual specimen selection processes," added Ianelli. "We not only provide our customers with fast access to millions of specimens, but we also create highly customized collections based upon our clients' precise research needs."
Clinical Nutrition | About Us - China Medical University Hospital
China Medical University Hospital's (CMUH) nutrition department, which was called the dietetics section belonging to the supply division, was established during the founding of the hospital in the 1980s. With the expansion of hospital beds and the volume of business, it was in 1981 upgraded to the dietetics division and in 1983 to the nutrition room, and then in 1989 reorganized into the Department of Food & Nutrition as the first-level technical service unit consisting of the Food Service Division and the Clinical Dietetics Division.
The department is engaged in three tasks: nutrition consultation, dietary supply, and teaching research. The department staff uses the knowledge of nutrition to provide perfect nutritional care for the patients, supplies a variety of foods by using group diet management combined with herbal cuisine, and promotes the nutritional concepts in the community.
The Food Service Division is responsible for the quality control, performance management, and supervision planning of the meal supply. To maintain the nutritional status of the patient, adapt to metabolic changes, correct the loss of nutrition, or to conduct a test, the medical nutrition therapy is required to make proper adjustments for and design of the diet, which will help patients to recover.
According to the doctor's prescription, the principle of nutrition, and the patient's diet handbook compiled by the department, the department's nutritionists provide diabetic diets, low protein diets for renal disease, high / low-calorie diets, high / low-residue diets, low-fat diets, low-cholesterol diets, high-fiber diets, low-sodium diets, high / low-potassium diets, low-purine diets, low-phosphorus/calcium diets, and tube feeding diets.
As early as 1983, the department led the way in the computerization of the business such as patient meal notification and menu design in an attempt to boost the efficiency of work. In 1987, the department fully updated the hardware facilities of the cafeteria, modernized the meal supply process, and developed the inpatients' dining mold, which many hospitals across the nation have adopted,. Moreover, the development was the first to carry the patient's meals on electric vehicles to reduce occupational injuries.
The Department of Food & Nutrition is responsible for assisting the key departments such as the departments of Metabolism, Cardiology, Nephrology, Gastroenterology, Severe Disease, Gynecology and Pediatrics, and the Neuromedical Center in outpatient nutrition consultation, inpatients' nutritional assessment, nutritional support, and nutritional status monitoring.
In 1981, the Department of Food & Nutrition took the lead in setting up "nutrition consultation" services in the outpatient clinic to carry out individual and group nutrition guidance.
The main tasks of the Clinical Dietetics Division are
To provide patients with perfect nutritional support and maintain their good nutritional status.
To offer patients and staff dietary design.
To educate patients and their families about knowledge of nutritional diet to promote the curative effect.
To enhance the nutritional knowledge of all medical staff in hospital.
To improve the advisory services on dietary nutrition.
To promote the clinical teaching and academic research in the Department of Food & Nutrition in hospital.
To organize and attend professional seminars and provide at any time up-to-date nutritional information to relevant wards for research and utilization.
To promote community nutrition education in the vicinity of the hospital by unregularly holding community group health education activities.
Our medication management process features the highest level of technology available. Each medication packet is scanned with our robotic technology to ensure accuracy for each packet. Our Clinical Pharmacists perform a Drug Regimen Review and place a final check on each order.
Our clinical Pharmacists will review all of your medications prescribed by all of your practitioners. This Drug Regimen Review process helps to make certain all medications are compatible with one another and to ensure all medications are being taken at the accurate dose.
Our team of Pharmacists prepares your CAREpack™ each month, which consolidates your medications based on the day and time you are expected to take each medication as they have been prescribed by your Doctors. Each packet is clearly labeled.
Integrity Pharmacy is a comprehensive medication management company designed for patients with multiple disease states who are taking multiple medications. Our Medication Management solution provides an in-home nurse assessment and a medication review from one of our registered nurses; medication reconciliation services; monthly refill management; customized adherence packaging (CAREpack™) and at-home prescription drug delivery. Our pharmacy delivery services provide the following benefits to our patients and families:
Our appointment based model of patient care service is designed to improve our patient’s adherence to medications and to significantly reduce medication errors from occurring. Each patient enrolled with Integrity Pharmacy has a designated appointment day where our pharmacy staff calls each patient each month, in advance of receiving their medications, to identify any changes to the medications and confirm that each prescription should be refilled. The call is necessary to help improve the patient’s medication adherence and to manage potential issues before the patient’s medications are delivered to their home.
“I am blessed to have a nurse who comes to my home to go over all of my medicines with me and call my doctor for refills and then bring me my medications each month-Integrity Pharmacy has taken all the work out of my medication issues.”
Happy Veterans Day to all those who served our country! We THANK YOU for your service. #HappyVeteransDay2018 https://t.co/9hhIshevNB
November is American Diabetes Month! Every year over 1.5 million Americans are diagnosed. American Diabetes Month’s goal is to bring awareness about diabetes risk factors and encourage people to make healthy changes. https://t.co/sylWBnj4gy
Hospital readmissions cost Medicare more than $17 billion each year. As such, there is plenty of pressure on healthcare professionals to reduce readmission rates and the resultant penalties that come along with them. @IntegrityPharm can assist your company with this process. https://t.co/DCk1Flte4k
Largest Neuroscience Study of Mindfulness as a Treatment for Addiction Published in Science Advances - Eric L. Garland, Ph.D.
Skip to content
Search for:
Eric L. Garland, Ph.D.
Menu
About
About Dr. Garland
CV
C-MIIND
M.O.R.E.
About
Training
Providers
Forum
Resources
Research
Current Studies
C-MIIND
Join Chronic Pain Studies
Therapy
Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy
Mindfulness Training
Clinical Hypnosis
Solution-Focused Brief Therapy
Start Therapy
Get Involved
Join Chronic Pain Studies
Become a Student
News
Posts / News
Podcasts / Talks
October 26, 2022 October 31, 2022 drericgarland Uncategorized
Largest Neuroscience Study of Mindfulness as a Treatment for Addiction Published in Science Advances
The largest neuroscience study to date of mindfulness as a treatment for addiction shows that Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement (MORE) can decrease opioid misuse by changing the brain.
Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement Amplified Frontal Midline Theta EEG Power During Meditation
The study, published in the top journal Science Advances, provides new insight into the neurobiological mechanisms by which mindfulness treats addiction. Study findings provide a promising, safe and accessible treatment option for the more than 9 million Americans misusing opioids. Eric Garland is the lead author on the paper and is a distinguished professor, and associate dean for research at the University of Utah College of Social Work. He also directs the University of Utah’s Center on Mindfulness and Integrative Health Intervention Development.
Garland’s study builds on previous research measuring the positive effects of theta waves in the human brain. Researchers have found that individuals with low theta waves tend to experience a wandering mind, trouble concentrating or they ruminate on thoughts about themselves. Theta waves can best be viewed on electroencephalogram, or EEG scans of the frontal midline regions of their brains. Low theta waves result in a loss of self-control as the brain slips into its default mode of automatic habits. In contrast, when a person is focused, present and fully absorbed in a task, EEG scans will show increased frontal midline theta wave activity.
“With high theta activity, your mind becomes very quiet, you focus less on yourself and become so deeply absorbed in what you are doing that the boundary between yourself and the thing you are focusing on starts to fade away. You lose yourself in what you are doing,” said Garland.
Garland’s new study showed it is in this mindful, theta wave state that people begin to experience feelings of self-transcendence and bliss, and the brain changes in ways that actually reduce one’s addictive behaviors.
ABOUT THE STUDY
Garland’s research team recruited 165 adults with long-term opioid use for study. Participants were randomly placed into either the control group that participated in supportive group psychotherapy, or the experimental group taught to incorporate Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement (MORE) into their daily lives. Before and after the eight weeks of study treatment, all participants were brought into the research lab and had their brain waves measured with EEG while they were asked to try to practice mindfulness meditation. Participants were assessed for opioid misuse for nine months after the treatment ended.
MORE is an eight-week, mindfulness-based therapy created by Garland to treat addiction, pain and emotional distress by promoting self-awareness and self-regulation of automatic and addictive habits. In a large clinical trial recently published in JAMA Internal Medicine, MORE was shown to reduce opioid misuse by 45%, more than doubling the effect of standard therapy.
Study participants in the MORE group learned to practice mindfulness meditation by focusing their attention on their breath or body sensations for sustained periods of time, and to refocus their attention when their minds began to wander into obsessive thinking about drugs or life stressors.
STUDY FINDINGS
Participants showed more than twice as much frontal midline theta brain activity following treatment with MORE, whereas those in supportive therapy showed no increase in theta. Participants in MORE who showed the biggest increases in theta waves reported more intense experiences of self-transcendence during meditation, including the sense of one’s ego fading away, a sense of oneness with the universe or feelings of blissful energy and love.
Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement Significantly Increased Self-Transcendent Experiences
The Effect of MORE on Reducing Opioid Misuse was Mediated by Increased Frontal Midline Theta
MORE also led to significant decreases in opioid misuse through the nine-month follow-up. These reductions in opioid misuse were caused in part by the increases in frontal midline theta brain waves. Garland explained that by achieving “tastes of self-transcendence” through meditation, the mindfulness therapy boosted theta waves in the frontal lobes of the brain to help participants gain self-control over their addictive behaviors.
“Mindfulness can create a pathway for us to transcend our limited sense of self,” said Garland. “Civilizations have known for thousands of years that self-transcendence, the experience of being connected to something greater than ourselves, has powerful therapeutic benefits.”
This, he explained, is a part of why some cultures engage in spiritual practices, practice deep meditation or use psychedelic substances like psilocybin mushrooms. Even in the popular 12-step addiction treatment program, the 11th step—seeking conscious contact with a higher power through prayer or meditation—taps into this same mechanism to promote recovery from addiction.
The state of transcendence can be like a blissful, natural high. Garland stated, “Rather than seeking a high from something outside of yourself like a drug, meditation can help you to find an even greater sense of pleasure, peace and fulfillment from within.”
Credit: https://attheu.utah.edu/research/mindfulness-training-provides-a-natural-high-study-finds/
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Tagged addiction, brain, chronic pain, craving, EEG, mindfulness, Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement, MORE, mystical, neuroscience, oneness, opioids, psychedelics, theta, transcendence
Published by drericgarland
View all posts by drericgarland
Post navigation
MORE’s Efficacy for Opioid Misuse and Chronic Pain Shown in JAMA
Struggling with Chronic Pain?
Do you manage chronic pain with prescription medication? Participate in our research study and receive 8 weeks of treatment for free, as well as monetary compensation.
* Research funded by the National Institutes of Health and led by the Center on Mindfulness and Integrative Health Intervention Development, Eric Garland, PhD.
Start Today >
Recent Posts
Largest Neuroscience Study of Mindfulness as a Treatment for Addiction Published in Science Advances
MORE’s Efficacy for Opioid Misuse and Chronic Pain Shown in JAMA
Dr. Garland Designated the Most Prolific Author of Mindfulness Research in the World
Mindfulness Job Opportunity
Healing Pain and the Opioid Crisis with Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement
Categories
Research
Uncategorized
Search for:
Meta
Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org
Dr. Eric Garland, PH.D.
Dr. Garland is the developer of an innovative, multimodal mindfulness-based intervention founded on insights from cognitive, affective and neurobiological science, called Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement (M.O.R.E).
