More aggressive battle vs helminths aims to address high stunting prevalence
Fact: The Philippines ranks 9th among countries with the highest stunted growth rates. In 2015 the Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI) found that stunting or chronic growth malnutrition prevalence among Filipino children was a high 33.4 percent.
Although decreasing since 1998, the drop is far from significant given the impact on nutritional status of a country.
One factor contributing to stunting is parasitic infections and it is this that health authorities want to address with its annual observance of National Deworming Month.
Frontline healthcare workers in community health centres will again be working double time this July to ensure that children, especially those in the 1 to 5 age bracket are given deworming tablets. These are provided free at all public health stations.
The Department of Health is most concerned about kids who have never previously received the antihelminthic drug, which should ideally be administered twice a year to prevent helminthic infections.
With nearly double its budget for deworming activities, health officials are exhorting parents to bring their children to public health facilities.
Other than those who have not previously received the deworming tablet, children constantly exposed to surroundings where helminths and parasites thrive are most encouraged to come for preventive treatment.
For Cebu health centers, Dr Al Patrick Alajas of the DOH Deworming Program Coordinator for Central Visayas said that the programme is safe, effective and free. He noted that tablets will be given to those between 1 and 18 in age.
The tablets should be taken after meals, twice yearly for optimum efficacy. Parents should be made aware of its side effects, which include headache, stomach ache and nausea, and be informed that health center workers will monitor children for side effects.
Last January, Secretary of Health Paulyn Ubial announced the Health Department is targeting to deworm 19 million public school students and 23 million preschool and out-of-school youths on a wider scale.
The high target is to prevent the infection from spreading, which has reached 66 percent among the age group 1 to 5 years, and in some areas, even reaching 90 percent.
The campaign will focus school-age children as they have the highest incidence, compared with any other age-group.
Consent forms must be signed by parents for students to receive the chewable deworming tablet. These are provided free in public schools. Private school administrators can decide to deworm students later and avail of the tablets from drug stores.
Worm infestations - either pinworms, tapeworms or roundworms - can cause unpleasant side effects and delay in learning ability, cognitive function and educational achievement. Absenteeism is heavily associated with the infection.
Helminth infections can impair a child's nutritional status and cause internal bleeding that may lead to iron loss and anaemia, malabsorption of nutrients, diarrhoea and loss of appetite resulting in lack or reduced energy.
According to the DOH Health Calendar, the first round of deworming programme will be held in this month. And it will likewise include prevention against schistosomiasis - an infection caused by blood flukes.
DOH is hoping to cover 80 percent of the target for the implementation, and is looking to coordinate with civil society groups and local government units to meet its goal. MIMS
PH: DOH receives 106M budget for deworming children
Mass deworming in schools to drastically reduce parasitic infections
PH: Solon pushes for modernization of local healthcare facilities
http://www.doh.gov.ph/sites/default/files/news_clips/070717-0003.pdf
http://www.schoolsandhealth.org/whydewormthroughschools
http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2017/05/31/1705332/doh-conduct-mass-deworming-students-july
http://www.gmanetwork.com/news/lifestyle/healthandwellness/595251/program-aims-to-deworm-19m-schoolkids-23m-out-of-school-youths/story/
Currently, there are no vaccines approved for prevention of HSV infection after years of development and innovation.
Table of Contents
Is there a herpes vaccine in development?
Which herpes virus has a vaccine?
Why is there no herpes vaccine yet?
Is herpes DNA or RNA?
What is the latest cure for herpes?
Is there a herpes vaccine in development?
Currently, there are no vaccines approved for prevention of HSV infection after years of development and innovation.
Is there a vaccine for HSV-1?
However, there is currently no vaccine against HSV-1 or HSV-2. “The development of an effective vaccine for HSV is a priority because it is a common infection that causes physical and emotional stress as well as increasing the risk for HIV infection,” the team noted.
Which herpes virus has a vaccine?
The only herpesvirus vaccine currently licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is a live attenuated varicella-zoster vaccine. Because of EBV’s associations with malignant diseases, acceptance of a live attenuated vaccine is highly unlikely.
What are the 8 strains of herpes?
There are eight herpesviruses for which humans are the primary host. They are the herpes simplex virus 1, herpes simplex virus 2, varicella-zoster virus, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, Human herpesvirus-6, Human herpesvirus-7, and Kaposi’s sarcoma herpes virus.
Why is there no herpes vaccine yet?
The herpes virus has more complicated DNA than most infections and has ways to go undetected by our immune system, much like many cancer cells do. Since vaccines work by stimulating the human immune system, this makes it more difficult to develop an inoculation for herpes.
Can someone with herpes donate blood?
Yes, you can donate blood even if you have herpes — but only if you’re not having an outbreak of symptoms and if it’s been more than 48 hours since you finished an antiviral treatment.
Is herpes DNA or RNA?
INTRODUCTION. Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a double-stranded DNA virus that proliferates in the nuclei of host cells during lytic infection (reviewed in reference 1).
When will a herpes vaccine be available?
“Sometime in the summer of 2022 is our target.” This vaccine is good news for everyone at risk of STIs. More than one out of 10 Americans, age 49 years and younger, are infected with genital herpes, says Sita Awasthi, PhD, associate research professor in the infectious disease division at Perelman School of Medicine.
What is the latest cure for herpes?
In June 2020, AiCuris was granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation by US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for pritelivir as a treatment of mucocutaneous HSV infections in immunocompromised patients.
Can herpes be cured with vaccine?
Symptoms of genital herpes can be eased with antiviral drugs. But there are no vaccinations against herpes. There is no cure.
Microscopy News: Printed FRET pairs
Printed FRET pairs
fluorescent proteins, FRET, nanotechnology 4/19/2009
After reading the headline you may be asking why someone would want to print FRET pairs. After all, FRET is typically used to study dynamic protein interactions. Biological applications are indeed what FRET is known for, however scientists are beginning to see that fluorescent proteins might be useful in fabricated devices such as those used for high-density optical memory and switches. If so, FRET could be a useful way to add functionality to devices making use of fluorescent proteins.
To study this possibility, Vinod Subramaniam and colleagues at the University of Twente in The Netherlands printed 2-D and 3-D patterns of fluorescent protein FRET donor/acceptor pairs. The work is detailed in a recent Langmuir research paper.
By examining the spectra and lifetime of the fluorescent proteins using wide-field fluorescence and confocal microscopy the researchers found that FRET occurred at the interfaces between the donor and acceptor molecules. The researchers point out that fluorescent lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) is useful to in making sure the function of the patterned fluorescent proteins is not compromised.
In the future, patterning of FRET pairs could be combined with nanopatterning technology to produce nanoscale devices.
Research paper: FRET Pair Printing of Fluorescent Proteins, Maryana Escalante, Christian Blum, Yanina Cesa, Cees Otto, Vinod Subramaniam, Langmuir Article ASAP
Research and Analysis Outsourcing - Limitless Opportunities
As technology and manpower work hand in hand, making Life simpler, the horizon for opportunities seems to extend further and further. The realm of outsourcing expanded business thinking beyond both creative and geographical boundaries. The opportunity to get good if not better results at a nominal price led to the rise of BPOs. Several factors like the economy, employment conditions, education system and technology made India an important competitor in the BPO race, a great location to outsource to.
Research and Analysis Outsourcing was the next BIG thing. Starting off as an off-shoot of the BPO industry, it has rapidly developed into an industry of its own. Research and Analysis Outsourcing involves outsourcing knowledge-based business processes. While BPOs deal mainly with customer care and technical support, Research and Analysis deals with high-end processes like valuation, research, analysis etc in various fields.
Research and Analysis - A piece of the pie for everyone
The Research and Analysis outsourcing industry is currently expanding its reach. Every industry is looking to develop their knowledge-base and develop strong foundations. As Research and Analysis outsourcing involves advanced information search, analytical interpretation, technical skills and decision making, it opens its doors to virtually every industry hungry to outsource its research and analysis.
Research and Analysis Outsourcing can be used widely in the study of the market and to make calculated business decisions. Data management, data modeling, data mining, integration and data analysis, database content creation, management, development and optimization are some of the commonly available fields exposed to the use of Research and Analysis. Research and Analysis Outsourcing can also be used in finance and other accounting services from bookkeeping to auditing.
Research and Analysis Outsourcing can also be used in product and brand management, investment analysis, competitor analysis, competitive intelligence and benchmarking. It can also be used to develop marketing material such as flyers, newsletters, sales literature, presale literature, proposals, website promos, catalogues, press releases and to design questionnaires.
Legal Process Outsourcing - Intellectual Property Rights
Outsourcing your IPR needs is fast becoming a much-desired service. With several multi-national companies setting up their R&D departments here, India has become the main Research and Analysis option for customers all over the world. Services such as document writing, global filing, Patent Portfolio Analysis, Patent Mining and Administration, end-to-end Patent Application Drafting and Filing, Patentability Assessment, Patent Claims Mapping and Patent and Technology Landscaping are now outsourced to Research and Analysis service providers.
Patent attorneys are now employed by Research and Analysis service providers to give legal advise on infringements so that customers have access to the best wisdom for their research endeavors.
A Research and Analysis service provider can also do write software, license agreements, write legal briefs and memos like patents, drafting, legal research.
Research and Analysis Outsourcing can be used for online research and analysis. It can be used to develop a website, provide useful analytic data, provide a better understanding of your customers and enhance your success rates.
Some of the services that can be outsourced to Research and Analysis service providers are website analysis, web site design and promotion, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Online and e-mail marketing, link building, syndicated research, trend analysis, etc.
This is another field that can immensely benefit from Research and Analysis outsourcing. With the significance of research and development work in the industry, fields such as Pharma, Bio and Cheminformatics and Biotechnology can use several Research and Analysis services. Processes such as Database creation, protein annotation, signal process tool development and analysis, text and web mining, QSAR analysis etc can be outsourced to a Research and Analysis firm. It is also used in the medical industry for clinical research and drug discovery.
Architectural services, Engineering Services for the development of automotive and aerospace industries and Animation services can also be outsourced. Outsourcing design jobs to India will soon be a huge industry.
This latest trend in the world of manufacturing allows a product today to be conceived in the US, designed in India, manufactured in China and sold in markets across the globe
VLSI (Very Large Scale Integrated) chip and engineering design, computer-aided simulation and engineering, Chip design and embedded systems (design jobs), Programming, software development and other forms of technological research can be offshored to firms in India offering Research and Analysis services.
As vast a field as it is, Research and Analysis Outsourcing meets all the requirements. Services such as Journalism (editing and copywriting for newspapers and journals), Report Writing and Presentation, Content Writing, Illustrations and article writings for the internet, Technical Writing (manuals, help files, manuscripts, white papers, tutorials, guides etc), Blog Writing, English language services, Publishing and any more can be outsourced to professionals in the field employed by a Research and Analysis service provider.
Apart from above, Research and Analysis outsourcing can also provide services in other fields such as business content development, legal writing, audits, courseware, proof reading, editing, accounting articles and many more.
The Research and Analysis Revolution!
The use of skill and knowledge in the Research and Analysis Outsourcing industry directly transforms into higher pay scales. Providing an incentive to work and chances to recognize true potential and skill, the Research and Analysis industry has taken long strides into becoming one of the leading business opportunity suppliers. Surveys reveal that the Research and Analysis industry is here to stay and grow. By 2010 the Research and Analysis Outsourcing industry is likely to reach $18 billion and India will receive a whopping 70% of that growth opportunity. With its limitless opportunities for use in any and all industries available, Research and Analysis Outsourcing in India has now opened the door to innumerable avenues. The world is soon to witness the Research and Analysis Revolution and companies must now decide whether to join or be left behind.
Vir Biotech blasts out of the blocks, with $500m in bank | Pharmafile
Vir Biotech blasts out of the blocks, with $500m in bank
Published on 19/10/17 at 09:25am
All has been quiet since former Biogen CEO, George Scangos, departed the company and then set up Vir Biotechnology in January. This has all changed with a press release announcing exactly what has been going on behind the scenes since January.
The answer is, quite a lot. The biotech has managed to drum up $500 million in financing, acquire a company and strike agreements with two companies to develop clinical and preclinical assets, as well as agreeing research deals with Stanford and Harvard. Not bad for a year's work.
The focus of the fledgling biotech will be in the infectious disease area; it's an area not known for being particularly lucrative but Vir believes it has an angle if it can successfully bring through a treatment for hepatitis B.
There is precedent there, Gilead boomed on the back of its hepatitis C treatment – Sovaldi was and later generations still are huge revenue generator for the company, even if the pricing and sales tactics have been controversial.
To this end, Vir has confirmed that a deal with Alnylam gets it development rights for a new generation of hepatitis B drug. Scangos has also confirmed that the biotech also signed a research collaboration deal with Visterra, which includes six antibodies to treat infectious diseases, including treatments for influenza A and RSV.
To build its pipeline, Vir announced that it had acquired Swiss company, Humabs BioMed, that bolstered its pipeline with 15 antibody development candidates, including in hepatitis B, Zika and Dengue.
"Vir is a science-driven company. We are building outstanding internal R&D, which we have coupled with nimble business development, to establish a diversified technology base as well as an exciting pipeline," said George A. Scangos, Chief Executive Officer. "We expect to move several compounds into clinical development in the next 18 months and we have an option to acquire a portion of a Phase 2 compound targeting flu. We also continue to evaluate several near-term opportunities to acquire additional mid- and late-stage clinical compounds, as well as expand our technology base even further."
It's a scintillating start for the biotech and one that is certain to drum interest in the company further. It has already been backed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and SoftBank Vision Fund and, with another fundraising round expected to close by the end of the year, investment in the company could be set to mount.
Inpatient Rehab Facilities in Delaware - Find Treatment Centers
Delaware Rehabilitation Centers
Recovering from addiction is quite possible, addiction does not have to last forever. Rehabilitation facilities in your area are available that can help get your health in order following your drug habit. Many different treatments can be found with Delaware rehab facilities, so you can actually select a rehab facility which suits your requirements. Important challenges can be brought on by substance addiction, if not cured early enough. Instead of going far away to receive addiction help, do not stress, you can pick from one of the many Delaware rehab facilities available.
It would be a smart idea to seek out Delaware inpatient rehabs to stop your drug addiction before it is too late. Individuals who go through substance abuse are at risk for several social and physical troubles. A lot of personal and bodily damages are likely for anyone who suffers from a drug problem. . A few of the bodily and interpersonal problems related to a drug addiction are; declining grades, psychological health threats, health conditions, working relationship complications, legal complications as well as the loss of employment. The bodily and personal troubles may intensify creating big pitfalls for the user, whenever you do not care for your addiction problem. Delaware rehabs will show you how to own your earlier faults, by creating positives from negative events. For those addicts who continue to take drugs, the result is usually the same, prison, becoming institutionalized, or loss of life.
Free Assessment to Examine Your Treatment Options with Insurance
Give us a call to discuss your Insurance Addiction Treatment Options Obtain a zero cost evaluation of your Medical Insurance Coverage to learn about what your Delaware policy will cover.
Delaware Substance Addiction Treatment Options
There are addiction rehabs that can be precisely put together to comply with your own expectations and ideas, for anybody dealing with addiction. A small number of rehabs in Delaware offer their patients high-class services to ensure that the patients are laid back and at ease through the time of their stay. Delaware rehab centers are divided by the diverse treatment solutions, to mention a few holisitc, faith-based, nonfaith-based, and 12 step therapies are all out there. If you happen to be an adolescent addict who is struggling with using heroin, you can select a rehab center that predominantly rehabilitates kids who have a problem with heroin use.
Treatment is avoided by numerous individuals because a way of life where they do not need drugs isn't conceivable for anyone stuck in drug abuse. You will be shown how to stay sober if you attend one of the great Delaware rehab facilities. You will learn how you can live clean if you attend addiction rehab, additionally, you'll feel the good things about being free from drugs, this will cause a growth in your desire for living sober. When you experience the perks of sobriety, you will want to experience all of the life the drug addiction snatched from you, and you'll gain a hunger for life. Take a look at one of the many very good inpatient rehab centers in Delaware and find the assistance you need to live sober right now.
Are you troubled with Addiction? Don't be embarrassed if you answered yes to this question, there's help, call 1-844-231-8663 now for more info.
Are you considering traveling for addiction treatment? Call us now for more info at 1-844-231-8663.
Delaware rehab facilities will most likely supply you with exactly what you've been seeking, so never hold up your research. You will be able to get yourself a lasting route to drug addiction rehabilitation, whether you or a significant other has long been addressing narcotics, pot, or another drug linked situation. You will discover amazing settings, ideal for your rehabilitation preferences, plus a wide array of different treatment plans to defeat your own addiction in your search for the right recovery center. You will find there's Delaware rehabilitation establishment that will satisfy your expectations if you are interested in the appropriate drug treatment for you personally.
Safe spaces, precisely crafted to provide folks a experience of comfort whilst visiting rehab are located in Delaware treatment centers. Sterile, confined medical center settings will be prevented by Delaware rehabilitation programs, because they understand that it is a large element of the process of recovery. Substance abuse problems will likely be resolved in relaxing environments with encouraging team members, focused on your distinct addiction. Any rehab experience normally takes place in a place seperated from the triggers of the world, so you can pay no attention to several of the exterior effects.
What to Expect from Delaware Inpatient Rehab Centers
You'll be given all the more overall flexibility while making your treatment choice with inpatient and outpatient programs available in Delaware rehabs. While outpatient methods could fit your needs if you want to end up in a trigger free atmosphere with comprehensive care, inpatient services supply you with an opportunity to remain at home while receiving care day by day. Widely used 30, 60 and 90 day treatment plans can be found among many others, enabling you to not concern yourself with your Delaware treatment experience conflicting with your personal time frame. You won't need to worry about how rehab will effect your lifestyle with a wide array of program lengths as well as other options to choose from.
Both in-house and outside aftercare treatment methods are available by Delaware rehabilitation rehabs, because they recognize that utilising an efficient aftercare program is a substantial component to a effective recovery. Going forward, you will have all of your life ahead of yourself after the initial treatment process, therefore it is merely the beginning of your total recovery. If you are unlucky enough to go through a relapse , selecting a Delaware treatment center with a good aftercare method will enable you to keep on track. Locating an aftercare method designed to work for you would be a good idea to do ahead of settling on a specific rehab program.
Looking for the right addiction treatment might be difficult, we can help reduce that stress with a simple call to confirm your insurance plan. So if you are questioning if your insurance company gives rehabilitation insurance give us a call now at 1-844-231-8663.
Help Your Family by Finding the Right Inpatient Rehab
Locating the optimal drug rehab center in Delaware will greatly grow likelihood of creating a full recovery, especially when aimed at a particular substance abuse dilemma. Thankfully, differing solutions are available based on certain recovery needs, are given in drug rehab centers throughout Delaware. Whatever the appropriate amount of your time to be in therapy is, if the plan ought to be centered on faith or whether out-patient treatment solutions are preferred, you ought to finish up content with what exactly is offered. When seeking the proper substance abuse treatment, numerous aspects should be considered.
The big list of drug rehabilitation options in Delaware. could be narrowed down if men and women choose from inpatient and out-patient rehabilitation. Inpatient rehab centers are best for people who have more severe substance abuse addictions, having to live in rehab for a good time period. Obligations including work and taking good care of a household commonly lead men and women to opt for outpatient treatment facilities. If in-patient or outpatient treatment solutions are provided in a crucial detail to note when looking at drug rehab centers in Delaware.
Treatment Options Available in Delaware:
Rehab for Men in Delaware
90 Day Inpatient Rehab in Delaware
Faith Based Rehab in Delaware
Luxury Rehab in Delaware
Solutions that adjust in length are accessible at Delaware treatment centers, giving the amount of time essential for every one of a kind rehabilitation. If needed, individuals who have worse addiction issues are in the position to live in treatment for up to Half a year Addicts can get well with out making a major commitment by employing short term drug rehabilitation choices, enduring only Thirty days. When finding the best drug rehab option in Delaware, the time frame you will have to heal is yet another important element to take into consideration.
There ought to be a drug treatment center in Delaware that will be a nice match, regardless of the individual's religious beliefs. Folks can develop their religious beliefs at faith-based rehabilitation centers, helping them triumph over addiction. The recovering addict will be in the position to connect with individuals who have equivalent faith based viewpoints at faith-based treatment solutions. Folks who don't see faith as a main concern have the option to attend non-spiritual solutions. These opportunities are great for people that may feel uneasy about faith based discussion through rehab. Spiritual drug treatment centers in Delaware help their patients use religious beliefs as a device for struggling with substance abuse.
This contributor data was updated for the last time on 2013-07-19 15:59:09
Reference: 134CVG
Mr Krishna Moorthy is a Consultant Surgeon in Imperial College Healthcare NHS trust and a Senior Lecturer in surgery at Imperial College London. His clinical interests are general surgery, upper gastrointestinal surgery for cancer and bariatric surgery. His regular practice includes laparoscopic gall bladder removal, laparoscopic appendicectomy, laparoscopic groin and abdominal hernia repairs. He has received extensive training in advanced laparoscopic surgery for upper gastrointestinal conditions such as hiatus hernia, gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and swallowing disorders such as oesophageal achalasia.
Mr Moorthy is a specialist in the surgical management of cancers of the stomach and the oesophagus and works in the reputable surgical unit in St Mary's hospital which delivers oesophagogastric cancer care for the whole of the North-West London network. He has also received training in bariatric surgery and works within the multi-disciplinary Imperial Weight Centre. He regularly performs laparoscopic gastric banding, laparoscopic gastric bypass and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. He also performs single incision surgery (scarless surgery). He is involved in the development and delivery of surgical skills training programmes in laparoscopic surgery and bariatric surgery. He is a local convenor of the Royal College of Surgeons, Core Skills in Laparoscopic Surgery and teaches on other surgical training courses.
Mr Moorthy's research interests are driven by the desire to improve patient safety and quality of care in surgery. He leads the safety in surgery research programme of the Imperial Centre for Patient Safety and Service Quality (CPSSQ). He was closely involved in the development of the WHO surgical checklist which is now used throughout the NHS. He is also involved in delivering patient safety training to medical students, surgical trainees and operating theatre teams. His interests also include the use of simulation for surgical training. He is often invited to give lectures on surgical training, patient safety in surgery and bariatric surgery. He is also the director of the MSc in Surgical Technology, Imperial College, London.
The Nature And Treatment Of Anxiety | http://orderxanaxonline.net/
One symptom of anxiety that's fairly common is insomnia. People that have excess anxiety issues in their life have sleepless nights because their mind is full of worries at all times. Falling asleep, waking up several hours later, is probably the result of anxiety and insomnia that you are experiencing.
Sleep deprivation comes along with insomnia, which can cause you to be less than the alert during your daily business. Lack of sleep can make any problems you have harder to deal with, and this can cause even more anxiety so that it can be a vicious cycle. You can be interested in seeking some natural treatments for insomnia or seek a doctor's advice, but it's important that you get enough sleep, as this is something that can help lessen all of your anxiety symptoms.
Social anxiety disorder is one of the more common types of anxiety, and this can make it difficult to function in any social situation. This type of social disorder has to do with how you believe people perceive the way that you look. People who are considered very shy usually have this problem to some extent, and it can be quite limiting in many ways.
If you have social anxiety, you may simply avoid social encounters as much as possible, and this is not good for either your social life or career. Your doctor, once they have diagnosed your problem, may recommend certain medications and therapy for your social anxiety disorder.
Relaxation is another kind of treatment for anxiety disorders. Relaxation is practiced by anxiety stricken patients in the form of yoga therapies, massaging and meditation. Relaxation greatly benefits in dissolving stress of the patients and rendering them complete control over their health situation.
Medical Education and Licensure Abstract Calendar All Specialties Internal Medicine Family Medicine Oncology Cardiology Orthopedics Surgery Psychiatry Radiology Healthcare management Pediatrics More » Blog
Home » Specialty » Medical Conferences in Neurology
Neurology Conferences By City
Neurology Conferences in Virginia
Board Reviews Courses in Neurology
Neurology Societies in United States
American Epilepsy Society (AES): 67th Annual Meeting December 5 - 9, 2013 , District of Columbia , Washington
2nd International Conference and Exhibition on Neurology & Therapeutics June 17 - 19, 2013 , Northbrook , Illinois
20 Foods That Can Save Your Heart in Pictures
When you add these to foods instead of salt and fat, you're making a heart-healthy choice. They add flavor without the bad stuff. Spices and other foods are delicious ways to eat heart-smart.
This oil is a healthy fat made from smashed olives. It's rich in heart-healthy antioxidants. They may protect your blood vessels. When olive oil replaces saturated fat (like butter), it can help lower cholesterol levels. Try it on salads and cooked veggies, or with bread.
Slivered almonds go well with vegetables, fish, chicken, and desserts. They have plant sterols, fiber, and heart-healthy fats. Almonds may help lower "bad" LDL cholesterol. Grab a small handful a day.
Swap white potatoes for sweet potatoes. With a low glycemic index, these spuds won't cause a quick spike in blood sugar. They also have fiber, vitamin A, and lycopene.
A warm bowl of oatmeal fills you up for hours, fights snack attacks, and helps keep blood sugar levels stable over time -- making it useful for people with diabetes, too. Oats' fiber can help your heart by lowering bad cholesterol (LDL). Best results come from using steel cut or slow cooked oats.
Sweet cherries, sour cherries, dried cherries, and cherry juice -- they're all good. All are packed with an antioxidants called anthocyanins. They're believed to help protect blood vessels.
Sources | Medically Reviewed on 02/26/2019 Reviewed by Kathleen M. Zelman, MPH, RD, LD on February 26, 2019
1) Tom Grill/Iconica
2) Mitch Hrdlicka/White
3) Claver Carroll
4) Food Collection
5) Pixtal Images
7) Mark Bolton/Garden Picture Library
8) Food Collection
9) Asia Images Group
10) Shimizu Takeo/Aflo Foto Agency
11) David Marsden/Fresh Food Images
12) Purestock
13) Sven Olof John
14) Martin Hospach
15) Leigh Beisch/Foodpix
17) Altrendo Images
18) Graham Kirk/Fresh Food Images
19) Sodapix/F1Online
20) Crystal Cartier Photography/FoodPix
American Diabetes Association web site.
Edgar R. Miller III, MD, PhD, associate professor of medicine and epidemiology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
Jeffrey Blumberg, PhD, professor of nutrition, Tufts University, Boston. Mayo Clinic web site.
National Cholesterol Education Program, Natl. Institutes of Health.
Liu, S. Diabetes Care, December 2004.
MensHealth web site.
NutritionData web site.
Nutrition Diva web site.
Ronald Prior, PhD, research chemist/nutritionist, USDA, Arkansas Children's Nutrition Center, Little Rock, Ark .
