3D-Printed Model Used to Assist in Pelvic Fracture Surgery
By Rich Benvin | Bones | 03 June 2014 | 3 Comments
Surgeons at a hospital in Shanghai claimed to perform a successful operation assisted by 3D-printing technology on a bone-fractured patient in May, and she is expected to walk again in three months.
To prepare for the surgery, surgeons used a 3d printer to create a 3d model of the patient's fractured pelvis to practice the procedure before the actual surgery.
Learn more about biofabrication.
Tagged in 3d printed model bone fractures pelvis surgery
Anthony R Patton Sr - March 1st, 2016 at 6:38 pm
Iam a 44 year old man I have had a knee replacement that fail and had to have it removed, now upon putting the knee replacement back in, surgeons think that that would not work for this injury and an suggest amputationis nothing wrong with anything else,muscles have grown smallbut not totally delapiated, if they are saying I am going to lose the lower leg anyway… why not give bio printing a shot. My name is Anthony waiting for suggestion…
Nurse Jobs - Fairview Health Services RN Outpatient Observation Unit (will consider summer nurse intern) in Twin Cities, Minnesota, United States RN Outpatient Observation Unit (will consider summer nurse intern)
Fairview Health Services RN Outpatient Observation Unit (will consider summer nurse intern) in Twin Cities, Minnesota
JobTitle RN Outpatient Observation Unit (will consider summer nurse intern)
Job Number 17-68474
The Outpatient Observation Unit RN at Fairview Ridges Hospital in Burnsville, MN cares for adult patients with a range of medical needs including such conditions as chest pain, back pain, gastroenteritis as well as post-surgical patients. This 20 bed unit is fast-paced with an average length of patient stay less than 24 hours, serving patients coming from ED /Surgery. The registered nurse is responsible for providing patient and family centered nursing care following established standards and practices. The nurse will have an essential role in coordinating care with physicians, other team members, and patients and families. The unit is focused on continuously improving processes to improve care and patient flow. Using computerized charting is essential. Support staff includes; NST on D/E shifts and NST/LPN on nights.
Benefit eligible. E/O wknd, holiday rotation, 8 hr shifts (Days and Nights), typically 2 weeks nights and 2 weesk days, weekends woudl be a set shifts once in patterned schedule but may need to flex with scheduling unit needs. 56 or 64 hours in two week (determined at offer)
The final workshop of a Priority Setting Partnership (PSP) enables patients, carers and clinicians to agree the Top 10 priorities for future research. We have listed all of the Top 10s below. The dates in brackets are the year in which the Top 10 was published.
Whilst the JLA refers to each list as a Top 10, a few of the PSPs have not limited their list to exactly 10 priorities. To find out more about how each PSP arrived at their Top 10, please visit the The PSPs section of the website.
Regardless of their position, all of the unanswered questions for each PSP are important. Where provided by the PSP, further details of the 20-30 unanswered questions discussed at the final workshop are shown, including their ranking, an explanation of the uncertainty, and details of any existing research reviewed.
The agreement of a Top 10 marks the beginning of the next stage of work for a PSP. The research priorities need to be promoted to key groups such as research funders, researchers, patients and carers and the wider research community, and individual more specific research questions need to be developed from the priorities. The Guidebook contains more advice on how PSPs can formulate research questions and work with researchers and research funders.
You can also find identified priorities for research alongside the key evidence around each health area at NICE Evidence search. Just enter your search term and filter by 'Evidence Uncertainties' to see the JLA priorities.
Acne (2014)
Adult Social Work (2018)
Advanced Heart Failure (2020)
Alcohol-related Liver Disease (2016)
Anaesthesia and Perioperative Care (2015)
Anaesthesia (Canada) (2019)
Asthma (2007)
Autism (2016)
Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease (in association with) (2021)
Bipolar (2016)
Bleeding Disorders (2018)
Blood Pressure in Pregnancy (2020)
Blood Transfusion and Blood Donation (2018)
Broken Bones in Older People - Musculoskeletal Injury: fragility fracture of the lower limb and pelvis (2018)
Now that it is a new month I get to share with you all my November 2019 goals and my October recap. Give it a try and a read!
Read More November 2019 Goals and October RecapContinue
Family Life | Home | Mental Health
7 Days of Gratitude: Week 4
This is the last post in my mini series, 7 Days of Gratitude. 7 more things I appropriate. It sure is nice to actively think about the things you are grateful for.
Read More 7 Days of Gratitude: Week 4Continue
Family Life | Home | Mental Health
7 Days of Gratitude: Week 1
This is the first in my 7 days of gratitude series. With it being November I wanted to focus each week on things I’m grateful for. Enjoy and stayed tuned every Wednesday in November.
Read More 7 Days of Gratitude: Week 1Continue
I'm Stephanie, the face behind A Red Hair Girl. I am a mom of 5, wife, and former 1st grade teacher. Stay awhile and get to know what it's like living with ADD, depression, and anxiety. Laugh with me, cry with me, and learn with me. I am hoping I can help brighten your day, help you through a crummy one, or just give you something to smile about. So glad you stopped by!
Recent Posts
Birthdays and Holidays: A Year To Your Best Self Series April 25, 2022
Super Fun and Easy Earth Day Project for Kids April 11, 2022
12 Days of Easter Activity April 4, 2022
Category
Category Select Category All Things Food Depression Exercise Family Life Family Travel Home Mental Health Organizing Physical Health Shop Sunday Motivation Teaching
Excessively Sleepy OSA Subtype Tied to Increased CVD Risk – Health News Chronicle
Home /Excessively Sleepy OSA Subtype Tied to Increased CVD Risk
FRIDAY, Feb. 22, 2019 — Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) patients with excessive daytime sleepiness are at a substantially increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) compared with individuals with other OSA subtypes, according to a study published online Feb. 15 in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine.
Discover Our Company About Rigvir Group Our Work Scientific Council Leadership Shareholders Our History Contact Us
Products
Discover Products RIGVIR® Manufacturing Important Safety Information Report Adverse Experience Training for Health Care Professionals Beware of Counterfeits
Science
Discover Science Focus Areas Pre - Clinical Research Clinical Studies & Publications Scientific Partnerships & Grant Competition
Experience
Media Room
Careers
For Investors
Treatment & Availability
Treatment & Availability
Treatment & Availability Representatives
Prevention
Vitols family invests in established in Latvia cancer virotherapy excellence center
6 May 2020
Rigvir Group concludes a deal with Chinese biotech company Sinorda Biomedicine on development and commercialisation of ECHO-7 oncolytic virotherapy cancer medicine in Chinese market and agrees on sales of minority shares in the manufacturing company.
In April this year a deal regarding licensing Chinese biotech company Guizhou Sinorda Biomedicine Co. to develop and distribute medicines of the oncolytic virus in the territory of China was completed. As part of the deal, Sinorda acquired rights to obtain 3% shares in company Latima, which manufactures the oncolytic virus ECHO-7.
The value of the deal amounts to EUR 8 million, which will be received in several instalments, and in addition Latima has the right to royalty for distribution of the medicinal products in the Chinese market during the entire term of validity of the oncolytic virus patent. Latima maintains rights to manufacture of the oncolytic virus.
According to the agreements concluded, Sinorda should take targeted measures to develop medicinal products in the Chinese market, including conducting clinical trials, drug registration in China and measures to promote medicines in the market.
The main agreements for the deal were signed on 6 November 2019 in Shanghai, at China International Import Expo during a special ceremony that was attended by both Rigvir and Sinorda top managements.
Sinorda board chairman Pingsheng Hu, “We are happy to get in our portfolio such a promising drug that has been in clinical practice for 15 years and has proven itself to be a safe and efficient drug. We spent a long time searching for a unique oncolytic virus, and now we have found it and will not delay investing serious resources in it and moving it forward to make it available to the Chinese people as soon as possible. We see great prospects for ECHO-7 virus in oncolytic immunotherapy on a number of cancer types and also in combination with other drugs. We will endeavour to push ECHO-7 oncolytic virus therapy into China Clinical trial.”
Rigvir Group CEO Jurģis Auziņš, “This deal has been a purposeful step to attract a new strong partner and provide funding for further steps towards the EU centralised procedure for the registration of medicinal products containing ECHO-7 oncolytic virus. We are sure that Sinorda will superbly manage its task, and we will also be able to continue our cancer virotherapy development mission even more powerfully.”
The two companies have set up a joint cooperation team and have already come together for a joint scientific seminar to coordinate future action for development of anticancer virus medicines.
IMAGE: Dr. Douglas Antczak with Cayenne, who is not afflicted with sarcoid tumors. Dr. Antczak's work has revealed that a horse's genetic makeup influences whether or not they develop sarcoid tumors.... view more
Sarcoid skin tumors are the most common form of cancer in horses, but little is known about why the papillomavirus behind them strikes some horses and not others. A new study by an international research group led by scientists at the Baker Institute for Animal Health at Cornell's College of Veterinary Medicine shows genetic differences in immune function between horses partly accounts for these differences. The study, published in the International Journal of Cancer, mirrors findings in humans, as some people have a genetic susceptibility to human papillomavirus, which can cause cervical and other cancers.
"Many therapies have been proposed as the 'best' treatment for sarcoids," says Dr. Doug Antczak, the Dorothy Havemeyer McConville Professor of Equine Medicine, who led the study. In some horses, tumors develop as small bumps under the skin or as scaly lesions that easily can be removed by a veterinarian, but in other horses the problem becomes much more serious. Surgery, cryotherapy (freezing the tissue), laser treatment, injecting the tumors with drugs to kill the cells, radiation treatment and immunotherapy have all been shown to cure these recalcitrant tumors, "but some tumors tend to recur no matter what treatment is used, and there is no universal consensus on a uniformly successful therapy," says Antczak.
Antczak says it's been thought for years that bovine papillomavirus (BPV) is the most likely culprit behind sarcoid tumors. Recent work from Europe suggests variants of the BPV have become adapted to horses and are probably the cause of most sarcoids.
With a grant from the Morris Animal Foundation, Antczak, his collaborators Samantha Brooks and Ann Staiger from the University of Florida, and the rest of the team applied a genomewide association study to compare the genetic makeup of horses with and without sarcoid tumors at more than 50,000 sites in the equine genome. They studied 82 sarcoid-bearing horses from the U.S. and United Kingdom and 272 carefully matched controls that did not have sarcoids. They found regions on chromosomes 20 and 22 that tended to be different in horses diagnosed with sarcoids, evidence that a horse's genes determine, in part, how susceptible it is to sarcoids.
"This is an example of more complicated genetics -- multigene susceptibility," says Antczak. "More than one genetic region is associated with susceptibility to sarcoids, and they don't completely determine whether or not a horse will develop the disease once it's exposed to BPV."
This genetic link implicates the immune system in sarcoid susceptibility. The region of chromosome 20 associated with sarcoid development is within a portion of the genome responsible for immune function called the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) class II region. The MHC type associated with sarcoid susceptibility is very rare among Standardbred horses, a fact that may explain why sarcoid is diagnosed so rarely in this breed.
"That should make a light bulb go off," Antczak says. "It suggests there's a common mechanism in both species for susceptibility to tumor progression that may involve subversion of the host immune response. By studying this phenomenon in horses you can learn about human cancer and vice versa."
Providers - Kidney Problems - Anthem Blue Cross EPO - Coronado, CA | DocSpot
We found 14 providers with an interest in kidney problems and who accept Anthem Blue Cross EPO near Coronado, CA.
Kidney Stones (10)Kidney Cancer (1)
Anthem Blue Cross EPO (14)More for plans »
Medicare Patient AgeMedicare Patient ConditionsMedicare Patient EthnicityMedicare Patient Insurance EligibilityAdditional InformationDistinctionsEthnicity/RaceForeign LanguageOnline CommunicationPatient DemographicPractice AffiliationTime CommitmentsCertificationsFellowshipMedical SchoolResidencySpecialtyYears Since Graduation Showing 1-14 of 14 List Mode
Dr. Joel J Baranski, MDProfile Specializes in Adult Nephrology4060 Fourth Avenue; Suite 220San Diego, CA Dr. Joel Baranski is a San Diego, CA physician who specializes in adult nephrology. He is a graduate of Medical College of Wisconsin. His medical residency was performed at Scripps Mercy Hospital, San Diego. Clinical interests for Dr. Baranski include kidney problems and hospital care. Dr. Baranski is an in-network provider for several insurance carriers, including Anthem, Blue Cross/Blue Shield, and Sharp Health Plan. He is conversant in Spanish. He is professionally affiliated with Scripps Mercy Hospital. He has an open panel.Read more Relevant Interests: , kidney problems
Dr. Charles Nguyen-Thanh Le, MDProfile Specializes in Adult Nephrology4440 Euclid Avenue; Suite ASan Diego, CA Dr. Charles Le's medical specialty is adult nephrology. He obtained his medical school training at St. Louis University School of Medicine and performed his residency at a hospital affiliated with Baylor College of Medicine. Dr. Le's clinical interests encompass kidney problems. He honors Anthem, Blue Cross/Blue Shield, and Blue Shield, as well as other insurance carriers. In addition to English, Dr. Le (or staff) speaks Spanish and Vietnamese. Dr. Le is affiliated with Scripps Mercy Hospital. He is open to new patients.Read more Relevant Interests: , kidney problems
Dr. Danny Lee Keiller, MDProfile Specializes in Urology (5 ratings)4033 3rd Avenue; Suite 400San Diego, CA Dr. Danny Keiller is an urologist in San Diego, CA. He is conversant in Spanish. Dr. Keiller's areas of expertise include bladder cancer, sexually transmitted diseases (STds), and erectile dysfunction (impotence). He is professionally affiliated with Scripps Mercy Hospital and Sharp HealthCare. He graduated from Baylor College of Medicine and then he performed his residency at a hospital affiliated with the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). His patients gave him an average rating of 3.0 out of 5 stars. Dr. Keiller accepts Anthem, Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Coventry, and more. He welcomes new patients.Read more Relevant Interests: , kidney stones, kidney cancer
Dr. John Richard Pedrotty Jr., MDProfile Specializes in Family Medicine (9 ratings)1222 First Street; Suite 1Coronado, CA Dr. John Pedrotty works as a family practice physician. He studied medicine at Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, F. Edward Hébert School of Medicine. He completed his residency training at Naval Hospital Camp Pendleton and National Naval Medical Center. Dr. Pedrotty's clinical interests include warts, menopause, and psoriasis. Patient ratings for Dr. Pedrotty average 2.5 stars out of 5. He honors Anthem, Blue Cross/Blue Shield, and Coventry, in addition to other insurance carriers. Dr. Pedrotty has received professional recognition including the following: San Diego Super Doctors. Dr. Pedrotty is affiliated with Sharp HealthCare. New patients are welcome to contact his office for an appointment.Read more Relevant Interests: , kidney stones
pediatric nephrologists who accept Anthem Blue Cross EPO (1), nephrologists who accept Anthem Blue Cross EPO (39)?What is Nephrology?
A nephrologist may use lab tests, ultrasound, and biopsies to diagnose the problem for their patients. They might prescribe treatments ranging from diet changes to dialysis to transplants. Most kidney problems are chronic, meaning that they last for a long time. Thus, nephrologists get to know their patients well and may treat them for many years., adult nephrologists who accept Anthem Blue Cross EPO (38) Advertisement
Discovery of New Heart Failure Trigger Could Change the Way Cardiovascular Drugs are Developed
2 min readDiscovery of New Heart Failure Trigger Could Change the Way Cardiovascular Drugs are Developed
La Jolla, CA – In their quest to treat cardiovascular disease, researchers and pharmaceutical companies have long been interested in developing new medicines that activate a heart protein called APJ.
But researchers at Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute and the Stanford University School of Medicine have now uncovered a second, previously unknown, function for APJ―it senses mechanical changes when the heart is in danger and sets the body on a course toward heart failure. This means that activating APJ could actually be harmful in some cases―potentially eye-opening information for some heart drug makers.
The study appears July 18 in Nature.
"Just finding a molecule that activates APJ is not enough. What's important to heart failure is not if this receptor is 'on' or 'off,' but the way it's activated," said Dr. Pilar Ruiz-Lozano, who led the study. Ruiz-Lozano, formerly assistant professor at Sanford-Burnham, is now associate professor of pediatrics in the Stanford University School of Medicine and adjunct faculty member at Sanford-Burnham.
To better understand these mechanical changes, let's look at a person with high blood pressure. In this case, the person's heart has to work harder to pump the same amount of blood at the same rate as a healthy person. To meet the increased demand, individual heart muscle cells start making more proteins, making the cells bigger. Eventually, cell membranes stretch and each cell begins to pull away from its neighbour. This leads to an enlarged heart―a condition known as hypertrophy. In pathological (disease) conditions, hypertrophy can lead to heart failure.
The best way to determine the role a protein plays in a particular cellular process is to see what happens when it's missing. To do this, Ruiz-Lozano's team, including co-first authors Dr. Maria Cecilia Scimia, and Dr. Cecilia Hurtado, used mice that lack APJ. Under everyday conditions, the APJ-deficient mice appeared perfectly normal. However, unlike their normal counterparts, the mice lacking APJ couldn't sense danger when their hearts enlarged. As a result, mice were actually healthier without APJ―none succumbed to heart failure.
"In other words, without APJ, ignorance is bliss―the heart doesn't sense the danger and so it doesn't activate the hypertrophic pathways that lead to heart failure," Ruiz-Lozano said. "This tells us that, depending on how it's done, activating APJ might make matters worse for heart disease patients."
What bran muffins diet – Health Blog
Bran, butter or oil, milk, egg and sugar are the basic components of a standard bran muffin. The truth is all of these ingredients can be part of a healthy diet, but bran muffins can also be high in calories, fat and sugar. With a few modifications however, the bran muffin can become a shining example of that which tastes good, and is good for you. Bran is the outer layer of a wheat kernel and adds fiber, vitamin E, B vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and phytochemicals to bran muffins. The daily recommended intake of fiber to benefit health is 25 to 38g. According to a article from Nutrition Reviews and the American Dietetic Association, fiber is positively associated with a lower risk of heart disease, stroke, hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and gastrointestinal diseases. Fiber also promotes regularity and can prevent constipation and hemorrhoids. Butter and oil are the two fats most commonly used in bran muffins to tenderize, flavor and leaven the final product.
I left diet comment earlier, but I just had diet come back and rate this recipe. Let me know if you try muvfins March 25, July 2, According to a article from Nutrition Reviews bran the American Dietetic Bran, fiber is positively associated with a lower risk muffins heart disease, stroke, hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and gastrointestinal diseases. These are so yummy and versatile. Let them thaw in the fridge overnight muffins then warm in what microwave if need be. Wafaa — October 4, pm Reply. Looking for something specific? Made these muffins while my 8week old slept and they did what disappoint.
Read More: Paleo diet pork recipes
Whatt that! Let me know if you try it! Stir flour mixture into buttermilk mixture, bran just muffins. These extra condiments can add even more diet calories and salt. If you what following a medically restrictive diet, please consult your doctor or registered dietitian before preparing this diiet for personal consumption. To freeze muffins tightly wrap them in foil and place in a freezer-safe bag and freeze bran up to 3 muffins. These bran muffins are so what to make!
