Title -ALLBCDIMPRST Please select an initial first
Editor -ALLABCEFGHJKLMORSTVWY Please select an initial first
Your filters: E-Books Radiology
Rajan Jain, Marco EssigBrain Tumor Imaging (2015; 1st Edition)
A. John Tsiouris, Pina Sanelli, Joseph P. ComunaleCase-Based Brain Imaging (2013; 2nd Edition)
Case-Based Brain Imaging, Second Edition an update of the highly regarded Teaching Atlas of Brain Imaging, has full coverage of the latest technological advancements in brain imaging. It contains more than 150 cases that provide detailed discussion of the pathology, treatment, and prognosis of common and rare brain diseases, congenital/developmental malformations, cranial nerves, and more. This comprehensive case-based review of brain imaging will help radiologists, neurologists, and neurosurgeons in their training and daily practice.
Timo Krings, Sasikhan Geibprasert, Karel G. ter BruggeCase-Based Interventional Neuroradiology (2011; 1st Edition)
Devin K. Binder, D. Christian Sonne, Nancy J. FischbeinCranial Nerves: Anatomy, Pathology, Imaging (2010; 1st Edition)
Hans-Joachim Kretschmann, Wolfgang WeinrichCranial Neuroimaging and Clinical Neuroanatomy. Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Computed Tomography. (2004; 3rd Edition)
Klaus SartorDiagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology (2002; 1st Edition)
Neuroradiology is evolving at a pace far quicker than any other specialty. It's important for specialists to have detailed knowledge of the newest advances, including state-of-the-art imaging techniques. In this abundantly illustrated text, you'll find the latest information on diseases, imaging principles, differential diagnosis, treatment strategies, and much more!
This book is designed to help you easily apply theoretical concepts to your daily practice. It offers a clear and concise review of the most important neuroradiologic approaches to a variety of disorders. Key points are highlighted throughout the text, providing rapid access to the information you need. Residents and experienced practitioners alike will benefit from the wealth of information this book provides.
Up-to-the-minute analysis on the newest imaging techniques
Detailed review of the use of MRI to measure brain maturation
Extensively illustrated to enhance understanding of difficult concepts
Most important information is boxed and shaded for emphasis--ideal for board preparation
An indispensable aid in clinical settings, NEURORADIOLOGY is an excellent guide to image interpretation as well as a valuable reference for residents preparing for the boards.
Steven P. MeyersDifferential Diagnosis in Neuroimaging: Brain and Meninges (2016; 1st Edition)
Steven P. MeyersDifferential Diagnosis in Neuroimaging: Head and Neck (2016; 1st Edition)
Steven P. MeyersDifferential Diagnosis in Neuroimaging: Spine (2016; 1st Edition)
Claudia Leite, Mauricio CastilloDiffusion Weighted and Diffusion Tensor Imaging. A Clinical Guide. (2015; 1st Edition)
Written by leading authorities in neuroradiology and radiology, Diffusion Weighted and Diffusion Tensor Imaging: A Clinical Guide provides key points and summaries on the concepts and applications required for proper implementation and interpretation of DWI and DTI.
More than 600 high-quality illustrations
Protocols and applications from early childhood to older adulthood
Methods to differentiate normal versus pathological states
Brain edema pathophysiology and use of DWI to distinguish between cytotoxic and vasogenic edema
Utilization of DWI and DTI to diagnose trauma, white matter disease, tumors, cerebrovascular disease, and head, neck, and spine disorders
This concise handbook is an invaluable resource for neuroradiologists and radiologists, as well as fellows and residents in these disciplines. With the expanding use of these procedures, neuroscientists, neurologists, neurosurgeons, and psychiatrists will also find it indispensable.
Klaus Sartor, Stefan Hähnel, Bodo KressDirect Diagnosis in Radiology. Brain Imaging. (2007; 1st Edition)
The series covers the full spectrum of radiology subspecialties including: Brain, Gastrointestinal, Cardiac, Breast, Urogenital, Spinal, Head and Neck, Musculoskeletal, Pediatric, Thoracic, Vascular.
Waleed Brinjikji, Timo KringsImaging in Neurovascular Disease: A Case-Based Approach (2019; 1st Edition)
Unique case-based reference presents high-yield images and expertise focused on vascular neuroradiology
Imaging in Neurovascular Disease: A Case-Based Approach by Waleed Brinjikji and Timo Krings is unique in its approach, detailing diagnostic and interventional neuroradiology cases based on radiologic findings. The book explores the key role vascular imaging can play in treatment decision making, prognostication, and improving the understanding of the pathophysiology of neurovascular diseases.
Spread over 11 chapters, this book covers a full spectrum of neurovascular diseases spanning the age continuum, starting with acute ischemic stroke, concluding with spinal vascular disease. All vascular neuroradiology cases follow a consistent format. After a succinct introduction describing the clinical scenario with relevant case images, the authors present key facts about the disease and the integral role of different neurovascular imaging procedures in disease management. Imaging findings are discussed in depth, with insightful clinical pearls on image-guided procedures and tips on managing potential pitfalls.
About 600 high-quality noninvasive images, such as MR angiography/MR imaging, CT angiography/CT perfusion, with angiography where applicable, elucidate a spectrum of findings
Analysis of the imaging appearance of a diverse array of common to rare neurovascular diseases provides diagnostic and treatment insights
Each case concludes with the most important points clinicians need to know, high-yield facts about a specific cerebrovascular disease, and suggested readings for further exploration
This unique case-based book is essential reading for radiology, neurology and neurosurgery residents. It will greatly benefit neurovascular disease specialists including radiologists, neurosurgeons and neurologists as well as interested in furthering their knowledge on the use of neuroimaging to guide neurointerventional and neurosurgical procedures to treat cerebrovascular disease.
Val M. RungeImaging of Cerebrovascular Disease (2016; 1st Edition)
Sangam G. KanekarImaging of Neurodegenerative Disorders (2015; 1st Edition)
Imaging of Neurodegenerative Disorders is a comprehensive, up-to-date reference covering the latest techniques used in neuroimaging as well as the basic structural imaging that facilitates diagnosis of various neurodegenerative disorders. All advanced imaging modalities, including MR spectroscopy, DTI, MRI, and PET scans, are discussed in detail, enabling readers to gain a solid understanding of how to use them to diagnose neurodegenerative diseases.
Imaging of Neurodegenerative Disorders provides radiologists and all who care for patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases with an invaluable reference that will be part of their medical library for many years to come.
Galdino E. Valvassori, Mahmood F. Mafee, Minerva BeckerImaging of the Head and Neck (2004; 2nd edition)
A landmark text-now fully updated and expanded Praise for the previous edition: "Excellent reference text of head and neck imaging . . . Important for the student . . . Essential for the [specialist] trying to keep abreast of rapid advances in head and neck imaging."-Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery "Superbly illustrated . . . Should be a bible for each head and neck surgeon, as well as every radiologist."-ORL For more than a decade, the work of Galdino Valvassori, Mahmood Mafee, and a host of expert contributors has offered detailed and comprehensive guidance to radiologists and surgeons around the world. Now fully revised and updated, and with the addition of Minerva Becker to the editorial panel, the new edition of Imaging of the Head and Neck is unparalleled in its usefulness in the teaching and practice of this challenging specialty. Taking into account the many scientific advances in the field, this edition fully reflects the way radiologists work today- from the expanding range of imaging modalities and display techniques to the increased interaction with specialists in other fields. Retaining the accessibility and clarity of the previous edition, the atlas is now organized systematically according to anatomic regions: Temporal Bone; Eye and Orbit, Base of the Skull; Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses; Masticatory System; Suprahyoid Neck; Infrahyoid Neck. Each section offers coverage of embryology and anatomy, classifications of congenital and developmental disorders, as well as detailed descriptions of inflammatory processes, benign and malignant neoplastic diseases, trauma, and postoperative changes.
Joel D. Swartz, Laurie A. LoevnerImaging of the Temporal Bone (2008; 4th Edition)
Authoritative and lavishly illustrated, this best-selling reference returns in a fourth edition with comprehensive coverage of the current imaging strategies for the evaluation of disease processes affecting the temporal bone and its intricate anatomy. New in this edition is a highly practical how-to chapter that presents imaging modalities and technical parameters for CT and MRI as well as an overview of the role of plain film radiography, ultrasound, PET, and PET/CT. The chapter then addresses major clinical indications, providing step-by-step descriptions of how to protocol each case, how to interpret the studies, and how to report findings. The remaining chapters thoroughly cover specific anatomic areas of the temporal bone separately. Each chapter places special emphasis on gaining a solid foundation of the normal anatomy and anatomic variations. It then discusses imaging protocols and image evaluation for specific clinical problems.
Practical discussion of standard techniques, protocols, and special considerations for imaging using CT and MRI
In-depth coverage of both common and rare conditions
Clinical insights from international authorities in the field
More than 1,500 high-quality illustrations and images, including CT, MRI, and vascular images using CTA, MRA, and conventional catheter angiography
This book is an essential reference for a multidisciplinary approach to assessing diseases affecting the temporal bone. It is an ideal resource for all radiologists, neuroradiologists, head and neck radiologists, and residents in these specialties. It is also valuable for otolaryngologists, otologists, and head and neck surgeons.
Yoshimi Anzai, Kathleen R. Tozer-FinkImaging of Traumatic Brain Injury (2015; 1st Edition)
Imaging of Traumatic Brain Injury is a radiological reference that covers all aspects of neurotrauma imaging and provides a clinical overview of traumatic brain injury (TBI). It describes the imaging features of acute head trauma, the pathophysiology of TBI, and the application of advanced imaging technology to brain-injured patients.
Covers acute as well as chronic traumatic brain injury
Written in an easily accessible format, with pearls and summary boxes at the end of each chapter
Includes state-of-the-art imaging techniques, including the multiplanar format, the utility of multiplanar reformats, perfusion imaging, susceptibility weighted imaging, and advanced MRI techniques
Contains over 250 high-quality images
This book will serve as a practical reference for practicing radiologists as well as radiology residents and fellows, neurosurgeons, trauma surgeons, and emergency physicians.
Olav Jansen, Hartmut BrückmannInterventional Stroke Therapy (2012; 1st Edition)
Jürgen Krämer, Odo KösterMR Imaging of the Lumbar Spine. A Teaching Atlas (2002; 1st Edition)
Two-thirds of degenerative diseases of the vertebral column involve the lumbar spine. Magnetic resonance imaging plays a pivotal role in diagnosis and treatment. With more than 450 illustrations and 78 case studies illustrating various constellations of findings, this book provides a wealth of illustrations that guide the reader through the MR imaging of lumbar disk herniations and spinal stenosis:
Impressive series of MR images illustrate both common and unusual findings, helping to enhance conceptual understanding and sharpen diagnostic perception.
Clinical findings and progression are covered in addition to MRI findings, helping the reader to appreciate the correlations between clinical and imaging findings.
The role of diagnostic imaging is addressed for specific disorders, helping to foster the more discriminating use of imaging procedures in the lumbar spine.
The book concludes with a chapter on the current technique of performing CT-guided injections at the lumbar level.
M. Forsting, Olav JansenMR Neuroimaging: Brain, Spine, Peripheral Nerves (2016; 1st Edition)
Asim F. ChoudhriPediatric Neuroradiology: Clinical Practice Essentials (2016; 1st Edition)
Roy Riascos, Eliana Bonfante, Susana CalleRadCases Plus Q&A: Neuro Imaging (2018; 2nd Edition)
Roy Riascos, Eliana BonfanteRadCases: Neuro Imaging (2010; 1st Edition)
Neuro Imaging will enable you to diagnose the full range of neurological and spinal conditions.
Features of Neuro Imaging:
Numerous high-resolution radiographs provide views of the brain and spine
A variety of common and uncommon presentations cover everything from Huntington's Disease to transverse myelitis
Examples of critical cases that must be diagnosed immediately -- to avert potential disaster in daily practice and on exams -- such as bacterial meningitis
Eugene Yu, Reza ForghaniSkull Base Cancer Imaging (2017; 1st Edition)
Skull base anatomy is extremely complex, with vital neurovascular structures passing through multiple channels and foramina. Brain tumors such as pituitary tumors, acoustic neuromas, and meningiomas are challenging to treat due to their close proximity to cranial nerves and blood vessels in the brain, neck, and spinal cord. Medical imaging is an essential tool for identifying lesions and critical adjacent structures. Detecting and precisely mapping out the extent of disease is imperative for appropriate and optimal treatment planning and ultimately patient outcome.
Eugene Yu and Reza Forghani have produced an exceptional, imaging-focused guide on various neoplastic diseases affecting the skull base, with contributions from a Who's Who of prominent radiologists, head and neck surgeons, neurosurgeons, and radiation oncologists. The content is presented in a clear and concise fashion with chapters organized anatomically. From the Anterior Cranial Fossa, Nasal Cavity, and Paranasal Sinuses - to the Petroclival and Lateral Skull Base, an overview and detailed analysis is provided for each region.
Fundamentals of skull base imaging, including recent developments in diagnostic modalities
More than 400 radiographs, color anatomical drawings, and color intraoperative photos elucidate the imaging appearances of a wide spectrum of disease affecting the skull base, as well as important anatomic variants and pathways of disease spread
Clinically oriented imaging approach focuses on diagnostic and prognostic features important in the evaluation of skull base abnormalities
Atlas of skull base CT and MRI anatomy provides an easy to access, quick reference for identifying important anatomic landmarks
Insights on the pathways of tumor growth and the role of clinical imaging in the management of skull base cancers
Critical and contrasting viewpoints from multidisciplinary experts provide a well-rounded perspective
This invaluable resource chronicles current knowledge in state-of-the-art skull base tumor imaging with clinical pearls on pathophysiology, prognosis, and treatment options. It is a must-have for radiology, neurosurgery, and otolaryngology residents and clinicians who care for patients with head and neck neoplasms.
Ellen G. Hoeffner, Suresh K. MukherjiTemporal Bone Imaging (2008; 1st Edition)
Temporal Bone Imaging is a case-based review of the current techniques for imaging the various temporal bone pathologies frequently encountered in the clinical setting. Detailed discussion of anatomy provides essential background on the complex structure of the temporal bone, as well as the external auditory canal, middle ear and mastoid air cells, facial nerve, and inner ear. Chapters are divided into separate sections based on the anatomic location of the problem, with each chapter addressing a different disease entity.
Each chapter features succinct descriptions of epidemiology, clinical features, pathology, treatment, and imaging findings for CT and MRI
Bulleted lists of pearls highlight important imaging considerations
More than 200 high-quality images demonstrate anatomy, pathologic concepts, as well as postoperative outcomes
This book will serve as a valuable reference and refresher for radiologists, neuroradiologists, otologists, and head and neck surgeons. Its concise, case-based presentation will help residents and fellows in radiology and otolaryngology-head and neck surgery prepare for board examinations.
5 Top Foods Men Should Eat | My Fitness Hut - Burn Fat and Manage Weight Loss
Posted by Mark Dilworth July 22, 2015
5 Top Foods Men Should Eat
Guys, getting older (which you are!) could lead to an increased risk for a number of different health ailments.
In fact, aging may be accompanied by loss of strength, muscle mass, and vigor.
However, the foods that you eat, could improve many different areas of your health - especially as you age!
As you know, men and women's needs are completely different.
This same concept holds true, not only on an emotional and physical level, but also in your diet, specifically related to the foods that you eat.
What you eat may lead to excess body weight, decreased libido, or even premature death.
However, including the fives foods listed below, could improve your health and quality of life as you get older.
Five Foods You MUST Eat
Guys, in order to keep your system working efficiently, you need to remember to fuel your body with the right nutrients.
The right foods can improve heart health, eye health, brain health, and reproductive health.
Aging is associated with gradual declines in most of your body systems (happens with everyone).
These declines may increase your risk for having a heart attack, stroke, certain cancers (lung and prostate), or the development of Parkinson's or Alzheimer's.
However, the foods listed below are chock full of nutrition and may keep your body, organs, and your brain working at optimal levels.
Guys, Here Are The Five BEST Foods You MUST Eat NOW for Better Health:
Health Booster #1: Clams, Scallops, Oysters
Clams, Scallops, and Oysters are part of the mollusk family, which can be found on land, in the deep blue sea, or in many lakes around the country.
These tiny little creatures are packed full of nutrition and are very low in calories.
For example, three ounces of scallops packs a whopping 14 grams of protein and is roughly 75 calories.
Plus, scallops, clams, muscles, and oysters are packed full of heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential fats your body needs every day to maintain proper health.
Also these tiny creatures of the sea are loaded with important nutrients, such as zinc, manganese, and phosphorus, which could help maintain normal blood sugar levels and improve your immune system.
Health Booster #2: Fatty Fish
Fatty fish (salmon, tuna, herring, sardines, etc.) are perfect for not only shrinking your waistline, but also for improving your heart, brain, and eye health.
Fatty fish are chock full of omega-3 fatty acids, which have been shown to reduce inflammation, which could halt the progression of many chronic diseases.
Not only that, but fatty fish contain high-quality protein and are low in calories.
Compared to a piece of red meat, a piece of salmon has less saturated fat plus a good helping of omega-3 fatty acids.
Mixing the omega-3 fatty acids with a natural source of Vitamin D, fatty fish could take the proverbial cake in healthy nutrition.
Worried about PCBs and mercury? The smaller fish, like sardines, are a great source of low-fat, high-quality protein, and are very low in mercury or PCBs, which have been shown detrimental to your health.
Health Booster #3: Oats or Oatmeal
Steel-cut oats are a perfect source of complex carbs, protein, fiber, vitamins, and minerals.
Of course you know that fiber is good for your health, but did you know that oats, which naturally contain beta-glucan, have been shown to be a great source of fiber?
Beta-glucan is a naturally occurring fiber that, when introduced to your body, has been shown to lower cholesterol, blood pressure, weight, and help improve blood sugar levels – which could protect your heart, digestive, and overall health.
Plus, the fiber in oats has been shown to decrease appetite and could lower energy intake at meals throughout your day (lunch and dinner).
Oats are full of minerals like tryptophan, manganese, and phosphorus, plus they have a good serving of B vitamins.
Having a cup of oats in the morning could leave you feeling full all day, which could reduce your belly fat, therefore potentially improving your health.
Health Booster #4: Mushrooms
As strange as it may sound, including more mushrooms in your diet could improve your health as you get older.
Mushrooms, in all varieties, deliver a big plate of nutrients in a tiny, bite size fungus.
Mushrooms have been shown to be an immune system stimulant, plus they have also been shown to fight or prevent certain types of cancer.
Mushrooms are also a great source of the B vitamins – B2, B3, and B5 – which could be beneficial in mood, blood sugar control, energy levels, and cholesterol levels, just to name a few.
Plus, mushrooms have plenty of minerals that are necessary for your body to function at its best.
Health Booster #5: Tomatoes
Tomatoes, another low-calorie favorite, are full of heart-healthy vitamins and minerals.
Tomatoes have high levels of the antioxidant lycopene, which has been shown to reduce your risk for cancers, heart disease, and could boost sperm count.
Yes, lycopene, according to some research, could be important for increasing your sperm concentration.
Plus, this tasty little vegetable has plenty of phenolic acid, which has been shown to prevent some instances of lung cancer.
One more benefit of tomatoes: they are available year-round, which means you can get plenty of lycopene at all times and seasons of the year.
Aging can be associated with a decline in health - from heart health, brain health, and everything in between.
However, taking the right steps now, exercise and stress relief, plus including these five essential foods, could protect your health and lead to a longer, healthier life.
The phenomenon of restless legs syndrome is a neurological disorder whose causes are still unknown. It occurs during sleep, rest or inactivity, and is highly favored by a sitting or lying position. Symptoms tend to be worse in the evening and night, and also worsen with age. Please note that some drugs may be responsible for symptoms related to this disease.
Unpleasant tingling, muscle contractions or small electric shocks are felt periodically in the lower limbs. They are accompanied by an uncontrollable urge to move the legs. In fact, the symptoms tend to disappear quickly when the patient changes position or starts walking, the latter being often necessary to allow patients to fall back to sleep. During the night, sudden and uncontrolled shaking of legs may also disturb sleep or may have an impact on the overall quality of sleep.
To temporarily relieve these problems, a patient should walk, stretch, perform leg movements, and occasionally massage the leg muscles. For a more in-depth treatment, there are various medications that can be prescribed if the restlessness proves to significantly interfere with sleep and the quality of everyday life: anticonvulsants, sedatives, anxiolytics or analgesics in case of severe pain.
The causes are still poorly identified; prevention requires above all a change in lifestyle habits, which may potentially alleviate the symptoms. The advice that is currently given is to have a healthy and varied diet, to reduce the consumption of caffeine, alcohol or tobacco, if possible reduce potential stress factors, and lastly to engage in regular physical activity.
Published by Jeff. Latest update on July 24, 2013 at 05:57 AM by Jeff.
This document, titled "Restless legs," is available under the Creative Commons license. Any copy, reuse, or modification of the content should be sufficiently credited to CCM Health (health.ccm.net).
How is Australian RTO innovative activity supported?
There is an ever increasing need in Australia for more innovative activity to maintain and ensure a strong Australian economy and society (PWC, 2013).
Innovation can be defined as doing something differently to create value, whether that be economic, social or environmental (Innovation and Science Australia, 2017).
The Australian Vocational and Education Training (VET) sector also plays a crucial role in supporting a healthy Australian economy.
The Australian Government's National Innovation and Science Agenda (NISA) (Australian Government, 2015) recognises that a robust, resilient and efficiently functioning innovation, science and research system (ISR system) is needed to grow the Australian economy.
This ISR system requires actors, enablers and innovation activity to support productive outputs and outcomes (Innovation and Science Australia, 2017).
Innovation and Science Australia (2017) also recognises that Australian registered training organisations (RTOs) have an important role to play as producer of innovators through developing innovative skills in their graduates. However, there is limited insight into to where the enablers and actors are to support innovative activity in Australian RTOs.
Please support this research by completing the survey below to help gain some initial insight into which enablers and what actors exist to support innovative activity in Australian RTOs. You can also go into the draw to win a $50 Visa prepaid gift card.
The outcome of this research will be presented at this year's NCVER No Frills conference in Hobart in July - https://www.ncver.edu.au/about/news-and-events/events/26th-national-vocational-education-and-training-research-conference, and published on the Digital Capability website blog.
Recommendations on how the Australian VET ISR System could be improved and further supported to enable more RTOs to capitalise on their innovative activity will also be provided.
For further information about this research, contact:
Australian Government. (2015), National Innovation and Science Agenda, http://www.malcolmturnbull.com.au/media/national-innovation-and-science-agenda viewed 27 January 2016
Innovation and Science Australian. (2017), Performance review of the Australian Innovation, Science and Research System 2016, https://industry.gov.au/Innovation-and-Science-Australia/Documents/ISA-system-review/index.html viewed 18 February 2017
PWC, (2013), The startup economy 2013 - Digital Pulse, Commissioned by Google Australia, https://www.digitalpulse.pwc.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/PwC-Google-The-startup-economy-2013.pdf viewed 29 January 2016
Australian Innovation, Science and Research System (Innovation and Science Australian, 2017)
This form was created inside of Digital Capability. Report Abuse - Terms of Service - Additional Terms
Sure Signs Of Pregnancy After Late Menstruation And The Results Of The Tests Are Still Negative? - HealthReplies.comHealthReplies.com
Sure Signs Of Pregnancy After Late Menstruation And The Results Of The Tests Are Still Negative?
Jul 29 '20 at 04:03 (1 year ago) Jemi
Illustration: Sure Signs Of Pregnancy After Late Menstruation And The Results Of The Tests Are Still Negative? usercontent2.hubstatic.com
Afternoon ,,, I am kind … want to ask in November I come on the date of the 18th .. before my period, I was always regular every month with a 28 day cycle … so for the next month, I always advanced … on this 18th of December I have not yet come a month and starting from 16 December I experienced signs of pregnancy such as back pain … lower back pain … my body disappeared and my body was hot for a few days and recovered by myself … I felt I was pregnant then I tested on December 18 the results were negative then I tested again on the 20th the result is still negative … then I went to the obstetrician, in the ultrasound the doctor said my uterus was empty … because I was curious then I had a blood test hcg on the 20th of December … and the result was u0026lt; 1.2 … were I not pregnant or because I checked too fast so it can't be checked, I hope I'm really pregnant 😇 .. Thank you for the explanation 🙏
Lower back and low back pain, and body heat are not typical signs of pregnancy. These complaints can also arise due to other causes, such as hormonal changes before menstruation, fibromyalgia, fatigue, viral or bacterial infections, intestinal inflammation, pelvic inflammation, and so on. If you view from the results of your ultrasound examination that shows the condition of an empty uterus and the results of your beta hCG examination that is less than 5 mIU / mL, chances are you are not currently pregnant.
Delay in menstruation is one of them can be caused by pregnancy. However, besides that, there are many other conditions that can also cause menstruation to come late, for example due to stress, fatigue, obesity, extreme diets, side effects of birth control or other drugs, ovarian cysts, thyroid gland disorders, and so on. Ascertain whether the delay in menstruation has anything to do with pregnancy or you can not do with a testpack, blood tests, until the ultrasound as you have done. Ideally, this checkup is indeed done after a delay in menstruation, at least 1 week, or more.
Even though it's unlikely, your test results that don't show signs of pregnancy may be due to the time of the examination is too early. To confirm this, you can do a re-examination in 2 to 4 weeks. As an initial management, you can first improve your lifestyle so that it is healthier, namely by getting enough rest, eating more antioxidant-rich foods (for example vegetables, fruits, and whole grains), don't stress, drink enough, and be diligent in exercising . To reduce pain in the back and lower waist, you can first apply warm water compresses. Meanwhile, to relieve your body heat, you can take the drug Paracetamol first.
If within 2 to 4 weeks your menstruation still does not come, you can go back to see a doctor or obstetrician to find out the cause of your complaints.
Answered: Jul 29 '20 at 05:00 by HealthReplies.com
Frequently Peed And Golden Yellow Foamy Urine?
, if you urinate frequently, then urine foaming and golden yellow is that a sign of symptoms of kidney disease?...
, I want to ask what's the difference between Nexium 20mg and Nexium Mups 20mg from AstraZeneca factory ?? r nAre they the same? r nThank you...
National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA
Correspondence to Dr Roderick J McClure, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA; rmcclure{at}une.edu.au
http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/injuryprev-2017-042355
Statistics from Altmetric.com
Request Permissions
If you wish to reuse any or all of this article please use the link below which will take you to the Copyright Clearance Center’s RightsLink service. You will be able to get a quick price and instant permission to reuse the content in many different ways.
public health
safe community
theory
Injury remains a leading cause of death and disability for all sectors of the community in all regions of the world.1–3 Since the 1960s when injury was conceptualised as a public health problem, there has been an escalation of knowledge relating to ‘what works’ to prevent injury. However, the rapid development of new injury prevention knowledge is quickly outstripping society’s capacity to implement it.4 This supplement of Injury Prevention brings together examples of empirical-based injury prevention research that demonstrate the state-of-the-art methods of achieving population-level reductions in injury-related harm. The issue also includes contributions that make the case for expanding existing public health paradigms of injury prevention beyond ‘what works’ and towards understanding the contexts and supports necessary for embedding effective injury prevention interventions within sustainable, synergistic systems of safety promotion.
Population health science is one orienting frame for understanding and addressing the conditions that shape large-scale distributions of injury outcomes. Galea and Keyes5 describe how population health science can inform public health action in terms of ‘what works’ and ‘when’ and ‘for whom’. They pose a series of considerations injury researchers can use to both uncover the …
View Full Text
Footnotes
Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors.
Disclaimer The findings and conclusions in this report are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of the CDC.
One of the most widely used and administered antiretroviral drugs is Truvada. However, this drug has multiple side effects which include osteoporosis as well as kidney failure. Many people know about these side effects, however, the manufacturer is guilty of withholding information about improvements that would help to reduce or eliminate some of these side effects. As a result, if you or someone that you care about has suffered from the side effects of using this drug, then you can make a claim and be compensated once your Atlanta Truvada lawsuit is successful.
You deserve compensation for damages and illnesses caused by taking this drug. So, you should definitely give an Atlanta tort lawyer a call who can help you with your claim. Of all the attorneys available, Dalimonte Rueb Stoller is definitely the best law firm to call.
Table of Contents
Truvada – What is it?
Truvada is a medication that is made by Gilead Sciences. It is made up of Emtricitabine and TDF (Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate) which are antiretroviral drugs. This drug can also be used by people who have a high risk of being exposed to HIV and it is also a PrEP drug for people who currently have HIV or AIDS.
Will The Use Of Truvada Result In Kidney Issues?
Kidneys are responsible for breaking down different antiretroviral medications and it is one of the most important organs in the body. As a result, people who suffer from HIV need their kidneys to work effectively. Many HIV patients typically suffer from a variety of kidney issues, however, when they use Truvada, this actually decreases the health of their kidneys or even worsens any pre-existing kidney conditions which can result in chronic kidney disease, renal failure, etc.
According to a study done by the University of California in 2012, they determined that the probability of developing chronic kidney disease increased by 33% every year for those who used Truvada. However, upon stopping this medication, the risk and symptoms of kidney disease due to the use of Truvada still remained for about a year.
Does Truvada Also Cause Bone Injuries?
Gilead Sciences currently has numerous lawsuits from people who used this drug and this company is seen as having the majority of the market share when it comes to HID/AIDS drugs. Many past users have seen TDF related bone loss after using this drug which means that their overall bone mineral density reduced. It is clear that users of this drug deserve much better and safer medication.
If you’re looking for a highly reliable Truvada attorney in Atlanta, then look no further than Dalimonte Rueb Stoller. They are ready to represent anyone who has suffered due to taking Truvada and currently has illnesses such as osteopenia, bone density loss, osteoporosis, etc because of Truvada. You don’t have to worry about paying us if we take up your Truvada case with TDF bone loss since we charge only on a contingency fee basis. Basically, you don’t have to worry about paying us until we have won your case and you’ve received your rightful compensation.
What are Side Effects of Truvada?
There have been numerous studies that show that the consistent and continual use of antiretroviral medicine, leads to many side effects which include osteoporosis, kidney disease, bone fragility, etc.
Basically, bone problems start to occur once the mineral density in the bones decreases at a much faster rate than is typical. This then leads to bone degeneration that is faster than the body can regenerate. This then results in loss of strength as the mass of the bones decreases. Additionally, the use of Truvada and similar drugs cause an increase in the risk of developing renal failure and other kidney problems, especially in HIV patients.
Some of the other TDF drugs like Truvada include Stribild, Symfi Lo, Atripla, Viread, etc. However, the latest versions of these drugs don’t have the side effects and huge risks that Truvada has. Unfortunately, Gilead Sciences have put off releasing new and updated drugs to Truvada because they want the patent to be prolonged.
There are lots of lawsuits that have been filed in the U.S. and they all seek compensation due to the side effects and serious damage caused by Truvada. No matter what the side effects are attorneys have filed complaints against this company so that they can compensate patients who have suffered and continue to suffer because of using Truvada.
Typical kidney issues that occur due to using Truvada:
Renal failure (severe)
Kidney failure (partial or total)
Fanconi syndrome
Kidney disease (chronic)
Kidney injury (severe)
Deteriorating kidney function
Bone issues due to using Truvada:
Fractures
Dental issues
Tooth decay
Loss of teeth
Osteoporosis
Osteopenia
Lowered bone density
Have There Been Any Truvada Lawsuits?
There have been numerous lawsuits against Gilead Sciences that have been filed by HIV/AIDS patients. All of these patients used the medications manufactured by Gilead Sciences and suffered from the above side effects and illnesses. As of April 2019, there are 41 lawsuits that have been filed against this company and Truvada. They were all filed as personal injuries.
So, if you or someone that you care about has suffered or is suffering from side effects due to drugs taken from Gilead Sciences such as Truvada, then you can file a lawsuit against them. The side effects include serious medical conditions, severe pain, and disease which deserve compensation, which also includes the medical bills incurred through seeking treatment for these side effects.
Gilead Sciences Willful Delay Of Improved And Safer Drugs
There is a lawsuit that was filed in May 2018 against this company where the victim accused Gilead Sciences of delaying the release of improved TDF drugs that don’t have such severe side effects. Additionally, many users also complained that the company did not sufficiently warn them of these side effects, even though they knew of these side effects as far back as 2001.
Class Action Lawsuit Against Gilead Sciences & Truvada
In April 2019 a class action lawsuit was filed by 41 users of Truvada who suffered from its side effects such as kidney damage, bone damage, osteoporosis, etc. for rightful compensation.
Truvada Lawsuits
Additionally, numerous legal complaints have also been filed against this company due to the side effects they suffered by taking this company’s HIV drug. Additionally, these people also indicated that they were diagnosed with fractured bones, kidney issues, kidney failure, etc because of taking Truvada.
How Much Will Filing an Atlanta Truvada Lawsuit Cost Me?
We charge all personal injury cases on a contingency basis. Basically, you won’t have to pay any money unless we have won the case for you and you’ve received your compensation.
It should be noted that the contingency fee depends on the status of the case when your attorney is successful in getting compensation for you. The fee is usually a portion of the total settlement fee and it varies according to the lawyer, their experience as well as how much time and energy they put into the individual case. These types of personal injury cases usually require a team of lawyers as well as medics in order to develop the case and this means that the fee will be a bit higher.
If You Have Questions, Call Dalimonte Rueb Stoller Today!
Many more lawsuits are currently being filed against Gilead Sciences as a result of their drugs such as Truvada, concealment of information, and side effects of this drug as well as the delaying improved drugs with fewer side effects. Essentially, they are responsible because if they had been truthful and not succumbed to greed, then many people would be healthier and their lives would have been saved.
With that said, not all of these cases are the same and each one will be judged individually. So, it is imperative that you are represented by experienced lawyers to get the justice you deserve. The best mass tort law firm for Truvada cases is definitely Dalimonte Rueb Stoller as they have the most qualified and experienced attorneys that will represent you and ensure that Gilead Sciences is held accountable.
Atlanta
Practice Areas
3M Earplug
Camp Lejeune Water Contamination
Hernia Mesh
Hip Replacement
IVC Filter
Jet 7 Xtra Flex
PPI Stomach Cancer
Paragard IUD
Paraquat
Roundup
Sexual Abuse
Talcum Powder
Taxotere
Transvaginal Mesh
Truvada
Valsartan
Zantac
Testimonials
Professional firm committed to their clients.
Karen SalterAttorney
VERY professional and reliable firm.
Paul LockieClient
Dalimonte Rueb Stoller did an amazing job with my case. They kept me informed throughout the process and earned me a settlement I never thought possible!
James HallClient
Previous
Next
Featured FAQs
How Do Damages Work in a Mass Tort Case?
Can You Still File a Mesothelioma Claim?
How is a Mass Tort Case Different from a Class Action Lawsuit?
Free Case Review
First Name
Last Name
Email
Phone Number
Zip Code
New Client?
New Client Existing Client General inquiry
Need Assistance With
Need Assistance With Paraquat Jet7 Extra Flex Catheter Exactech IVC Filter Hernia Mesh Talcum Powder Round-Up PPI Stomach Cancer Truvada/HIV Drugs Sex Abuse Essure Onglyza Hip Replacement Transvaginal Mesh Taxotere 3M Earplug Zantac Valsartan Paraguard IUD Other
Message
Get Your Free Case Review
San Diego
5790 Fleet Street
Suite 200
Carlsbad, CA 92008
Call Us Now
Get Directions
Boston
75 State Street,
1st Floor or Suite 100
Boston, MA 02109
Call Us Now
Get Directions
Washington, D.C.
1250 Connecticut Avenue NW
Suite 700
Washington, DC 20036
Call Us Now
Get Directions
Atlanta
225 Ottley Drive NE
Suite 110
Atlanta, GA 30324
Call Us Now
Get Directions
San Francisco
1990 N. California Blvd.
8th Floor,
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
Call Us Now
Get Directions
Phoenix
2425 E. Camelback Road
Suite 500
Phoenix, AZ 85016
Call Us Now
Get Directions
Los Angeles​
515 S. Figueroa Street
Suite 1550
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Call Us Now
Get Directions
Aliso Viejo
120 Vantis Dr
Suite 430
Aliso Viejo, CA 92656
Call Us Now
Get Directions
Facebook Linkedin Instagram Twitter Youtube
DISCLAIMER: The materials on this website are made available by Dalimonte Rueb Stoller for informational purposes only and are not legal advice. The transmission and receipt of information contained on the website do not form or constitute an attorney-client relationship. Persons should not act upon information on this site without seeking professional legal counsel. The materials on this website may not reflect the most current legal developments, verdicts or settlements. Further, prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Some links within the Dalimonte Rueb Stoller website may lead to other sites. This site does not incorporate any materials appearing in such linked sites by reference, and Dalimonte Rueb Stoller does not necessarily sponsor, endorse or otherwise approve of such linked materials.
© 2022 Dalimonte Rueb Stoller. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by
LET'S GET STARTED WITH A FREE CASE REVIEW
First Name
Last Name
Email
Phone Number
Zip Code
New Client?
New Client Existing Client General inquiry
Need Assistance With
Need Assistance With Paraquat Jet7 Extra Flex Catheter Exactech IVC Filter Hernia Mesh Talcum Powder Round-Up PPI Stomach Cancer Truvada/HIV Drugs Sex Abuse Essure Onglyza Hip Replacement Transvaginal Mesh Taxotere 3M Earplug Zantac Valsartan Paraguard IUD Other
Serum Neurotensin: An Objective Mirror to Acne-induced Quality of Life and Psychological Impairment – JCAD | The Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology
Article Categories
Case Report
Original Research
Literature Review
Letters to the Editor
Brief Report
Article Topics
Acne
Aesthetics
Alopecia
Atopic Dermatitis
Complications
Cutaneous Oncology
Melasma
Pediatric Dermatology
Psoriasis
Skin of Color
Rosacea
Scars
Sunburn and Sun Care
Topical treatments
Author Guidelines
Permissions
About JCAD
Advertise
Contact
Menu
Article Categories
Case Report
Original Research
Literature Review
Letters to the Editor
Brief Report
Article Topics
Acne
Aesthetics
Alopecia
Atopic Dermatitis
Complications
Cutaneous Oncology
Melasma
Pediatric Dermatology
Psoriasis
Skin of Color
Rosacea
Scars
Sunburn and Sun Care
Topical treatments
Author Guidelines
Permissions
About JCAD
Advertise
Contact
TOPICS
Home
Archive
Supplements
NP+PA Perspectives
Online Exclusives
Subscribe
CME Activities
Serum Neurotensin: An Objective Mirror to Acne-induced Quality of Life and Psychological Impairment
December 1, 2021
J Clin Aesthet Dermatol. 2021;14(12):E69–E73.
by Nancy W. Mikhael, MD; Amira I. Mansour, MD; Esraa M. Salah El Din, MBBcH; mohammed Hammad El Azab, MD; and rehab M. Salem, MD
Dr. Mikhael is a Professor of Dermatology and Andrology and Dr. Salem is an Assistant Professor of Dermatology and Andrology, Dermatology Department, Faculty of Medicine, at Benha University in Benha, Egypt. Dr. Mansour is an Assistant Professor of Clinical and Chemical Pathology, Clinical and Chemical Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, at Benha University in Benha, Egypt. Dr. Salah El Din is with the Faculty of Medicine at Benha University in Benha, Egypt. Dr. El Azab is a Lecturer of Psychiatry and Neurology, Psychiatry and Neurology Department, Faculty of Medicine, at Benha University in Benha, Egypt.
FUNDING: No funding was provided for this article.
DISCLOSURES: The author reports no conflicts of interest relevant to the content of this article.
ABSTRACT: Background. Acne is a multifactorial disorder, and stress potentially plays a role in its pathogenesis. Objectives. We aimed to assess the serum levels of neurotensin in patients with acne vulgaris (AV) and investigate the relationship of these levels to quality of life (QoL), depression, anxiety, and stress. Methods. The study included 60 patients with AV classified into mild (n=20), moderate (n=20), and severe (n=20) groups and 20 healthy, age-matched, sex-matched, and body mass index (BMI)-matched individuals in a control group. Patient QoL was assessed using the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI). Each participant completed the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and Perceived Stress Scale (PSS-10). Serum levels of neurotensin were measured with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results. Neurotensin levels and scores from the three questionnaires were significantly higher among the patients with AV than the control subjects. They were also significantly elevated in patients with post-acne scars and hyperpigmentation and in those with severe acne. Conclusion: It is well known that acne greatly impacts QoL and might be associated with depression, anxiety, and stress. Further, serum neurotensin could be a promising marker to objectively evaluate the psychosocial impact of AV.
Keywords: Acne, anxiety, depression, neurotensin, quality of life
Acne vulgaris (AV) is a widespread multifactorial disorder of pilosebaceous elements, and its pathogenic factors (i.e., follicular hyperkeratosis, increased activity of sebaceous glands, microbe hypercolonization, inflammation, and immune response) are commonly known. Psychological factors have become a subject of special concern, and stressful situations are discussed as possible triggering factors of acne.1 Adolescent patients with acne have reported low self-esteem and symptoms of depression, leading to a lower quality of life (QoL). Psychological comorbidities, including depression and anxiety, have largely been associated with AV, but it is unclear whether AV is the cause, or if it only worsens the preexisting conditions.2
Neuropeptides are present in the skin, where they might play a role as neurotransmitters and trophins.3 In the present work, we aimed to assess the serum levels of neurotensin in patients with AV and investigate their relationship to QoL, depression, anxiety, and stress as evaluated by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), and Perceived Stress Scale (PSS-10), respectively.
Methods
Subjects. This case control study was approved by the local ethics committee on research involving human subjects of Benha Faculty of Medicine. Informed consent was obtained from all participants before sample collection.
The study included 60 patients with AV classified into three groups (mild, moderate, and severe acne) with 20 patients in each group. In addition, 20 apparently healthy, age-, sex-, and body mass index (BMI)-matched subjects were included as a control group. Subjects were recruited from the dermatology outpatient clinic in Benha University Hospital. Pregnant and lactating women and patients suffering from any chronic skin or systemic diseases, concurrent psychiatric illness, or receiving any regular psychotropic medication or antidepressant drugs were excluded from this work.
All patients were subjected to a detailed history taking and physical examination to evaluate the clinical type and severity of acne using the Global Acne Grading System (GAGS).4 The patients’ QoL was assessed using the DLQI, a validated questionnaire containing 10 questions evaluating symptoms, feelings, and the impact of the skin condition on daily activities, leisure, work and school, personal relationships, and treatment.5
Each participant completed the HADS, which assesses depression and anxiety,6 and the PSS-10, which assesses the stress experienced by the patients.7 Serum levels of neurotensin were measured for all enrolled subjects using the Human Neurotensin (NT) ELISA Kit (INOVA; Beijing, China) Cat No. CSBE09144h, according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
Statistical analysis. The collected data were summarized in terms of mean±standard deviation (SD), median and range for quantitative data as appropriate, and frequency and percentage for qualitative data. Comparisons between the different study groups were carried out using the Fisher’s Exact Test (FET) to compare differences between proportions, and the Student’s t-test (t) and the Mann-Whitney test (Z) were used to test differences between two groups regarding parametric and nonparametric data, respectively. The one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA;F) and the Kruskal-Wallis test (X2) were used to compare more than two groups as appropriate, followed by post-hoc testing using the Bonferroni method to detect differences in pairs. Spearman correlation coefficient (rho) was used to assess correlations between quantitative variables as appropriate.
Statistical significance (S) was accepted at P-value <0.05. A P-value <0.001 was considered highly significant (HS) while a P-value >0.05 was considered nonsignificant. All statistical analyses were carried out in STATA/SE version 11.2 for Windows (STATA Corporation, College Station, Texas).
Results
The study was conducted on 60 patients with AV, 50 female participants (83.3%) and 10 male participants (16.6%). Their mean age was 20.9±2.6 years (range: 18–29 years), and their mean BMI was 27.2±6.6kg/m2. In addition, 20 healthy subjects of matched age and sex were included as a control group. They included 16 female participants (80%) and four male participants (20%) with a mean age of 20.5±1.4 years (range: 18–23 years) and a mean BMI of 29.3±6.5 kg/m2.
The mean age of onset was 15.5±3.3 years old, and the mean acne duration was 5.7±2.9 years. Thirty-two patients (53.3%) had post acne hyperpigmentation, while 22 patients (36.6%) only had post acne scars.
Our data revealed that neurotensin serum levels and the scores of the used questionnaires (HADS and PSS-10) of the patient group were significantly higher than those of the control group (Table 1). The mean DLQI score was 21.43±5.61.
There was a significant positive correlation between serum neurotensin levels and BMI, as well as DLQI scores. Serum neurotensin levels correlated positively with the scores of HADS and PSS-10 as well; however, these correlations were insignificant. A significant positive correlation was found between the scores of the three used questionnaires (Table 2).
Serum levels of neurotensin and the scores of the three questionnaires were significantly elevated in patients with severe acne and in those with post acne scars and hyperpigmentation (Table 3).
Discussion
In the present study, serum levels of neurotensin were investigated in patients with AV and a group of healthy control subjects. To the best of our knowledge, serum levels of neurotensin have not been previously evaluated in AV. Results of the current work showed that there was a significant increase in serum neurotensin levels in the patient group compared to the control group. There was also a significant relationship between serum levels of neurotensin and DLQI scores.
Acne has a significant impact on QoL, particularly in adolescent and young adult patients.8 In recent years, there has been a constant preoccupation with the QoL of the patients. QoL represents the degree of well-being that a person feels in different aspects; physical, psychoemotional, social and relational, personal development, and self-determination and rights. Regarding dermatological diseases, taking the impact of the skin disorder in consideration can assist the doctor in finding the best therapeutic proposal and detecting those patients who might be psychologically affected even when the clinical picture of the disease seems mild.9
Our study showed that AV affects patient QoL extremely (the mean DLQI score was 21.43). This is in agreement with Al-Shidhani et al,10 who highlighted that acne has a great impact on patient QoL. Chilicka et al11 also confirmed the extreme effects of acne on patient QoL, measured using DLQI. Their work also showed great improvement in the patients’ general QoL after applying a series of cosmetological treatments.
The reliability of HADS in detecting anxiety and depression and evaluating their severity in different dermatologic diseases has been previously demonstrated.12 The present study showed that there was a significant elevation in anxiety and depression scores in patients with acne using HADS. Solgajová et al13 reported that anxiety and depression are prevalent in 55.6 percent and 37.5 percent of patients with acne, respectively. Uhlenhake et al14 reported that depression is 2 to 3 times as prevalent in patients with acne than in the general population. Jagtiani et al15 reported that the frequency of depression was 8.8 percent among patients with AV. AV is among the dermatological diseases with psychological comorbidities. High levels of anxiety, depression, and social anxiety were documented in a sample of dermatology patients, including patients with AV.16,17 In contrast to these findings, Duman et al18 concluded that acne does not have any association with depression and anxiety, however, this may be related to the nature of their studied sample. About 73 percent of their sample had mild or moderate AV. In our study, using PSS-10 revealed that patients with acne are suffering from stress. This is in agreement with Yosipovitch et al19 and Law et al.20
Our study showed that there was a significant positive correlation between neurotensin serum levels and BMI. Li et al21 reported elevated serum levels of proneurotensin in patients with obesity. The stress of living with obesity could possibly explain this positive relationship.22
We found significantly positive correlations between the scores of the used questionnaires, indicating a relationship between the degree of QoL impairment and stress, depression, and anxiety in patients with acne. When QoL of patients with acne is impaired, the risk of anxiety and depression increases due to the effect that acne has on body image, which is considered the principal factor related to depression and anxiety.23,24 This means that the psychological impact of acne results mainly from the patient’s perception of the disturbed QoL.
We did not find significant sex differences regarding the serum levels of neurotensin or the scores of any of the used questionnaires. Previous studies have reported that both sexes are concerned equally about their appearance.18,23,25 Moreover, in different dermatologic diseases, no significant difference between men and women regarding depression were detected.24
Another study reported that the self-esteem of girls with acne was more affected than that of boys.26 Kellett and Gawkrodger27 reported that the psychological impact of acne in women was significantly higher than that in men, despite the more severe acne in the male patients. Aktan et al28 reported that HADS-Depression scores of boys and girls with acne were not significantly different, whereas HADS-Anxiety scores of girls with acne were significantly higher than those of boys with acne. In Al-Shidhani et al’s10 study, the general QoL of the female patients was more affected than that of the male patients. On the other hand, Abdel-Hafez et al29 reported higher impact of acne in men than in women. They explained this difference by the limited public display of women’s faces in Middle Eastern societies.
The present study found a significant elevation in serum neurotensin levels and the scores of the used questionnaires in severe AV. There is some debate about this point. While some authors30–32 reported a relation between acne severity and the degree of QoL impairment, as well as the psychological affection, others33–36 did not.
The current findings showed that post acne scars and hyperpigmentation affected patient QoL and were associated with depression, anxiety, and stress. This is in agreement with Hazarika and Rajaprabha.37 Brown et al38 highlighted the high levels of anxiety and the poor QoL in patients with facial post acne scars. The significant impact of post acne scars on the QoL of young adults highlights the necessity of suitable education programs targeting teenagers about AV and its complications, including post acne scarring and hyperpigmentation. These programs may direct the patients with acne to early treatment in order to minimize acne consequences.39
Conclusion
It is well known that acne greatly impacts QoL and appears to be associated with depression, anxiety, and stress. Based on our results, serum neurotensin could be a promising marker to objectively evaluate the psychosocial impact of AV.
References
Sampogna F, Tabolli S, Giannantoni P, et al. Relationship between psychosocial burden of skin conditions and symptoms: measuring the attributable fraction. Acta Derm Venereol. 2016;96(1):60–63.
Peters EM. Stressed skin?–a molecular psychosomatic update on stress causes and effects in dermatologic diseases. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2016;14(3):233–252.
Dallos A, Kiss M, Polyánka H, et al. Effects of the neuropeptides substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and galanin on the production of nerve growth factor and inflammatory cytokines in cultured human keratinocytes. Neuropeptides. 2006;40(4):251–263.
Doshi A, Zaheer A, Stiller MJ. A comparison of current acne grading systems and proposal of a novel system. Int J Dermatol. 1997;36(6): 416–418.
Finlay AY, Khan GK. Dermatology life quality index (DLQI): a simple practical measure for routine clinical use. Clin Exp Dermatol. 1994;19:210–216.
Zigmond AS, Snaith RP. The hospital anxiety and depression scale. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1983;67:361–370.
Cohen S, Kamarck T, Mermelstein R. A global measure of perceived stress. J Health Soc Behav. 1983;24(4):385–396.
Nair PA, Nair AR. Quality of life perspective towards acne among adolescents at tertiary care center of Gujarat, India. J Clin Diagn Res. 2015;9(10):WC01–WC04.
Gollnick H, Cunliffe W, Berson D, et al. Management of acne: a report from a global alliance to improve outcomes in acne. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2003;49(1):S1–S37.
Al-Shidhani A, Al-Rashdi S, Al-Habsi H, Rizvi S. Impact of acne on quality of life of students at Sultan Qaboos University. Oman Med J. 2015;30(1):42.
Chilicka K, Maj J, Panaszek B. General quality of life of patients with acne vulgaris before and after performing selected cosmetological treatments. Patient Prefer Adherence. 2017;11:1357–1361.
Magin PJ, Pond CD, Smith WT, et al. A cross-sectional study of psychological morbidity in patients with acne, psoriasis and atopic dermatitis in specialist dermatology and general practices. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2008;22(12):1435–1444.
Solgajová A, Sollár T, Vorosova G, Zrubcová D. The incidence of anxiety, depression and quality of life in patients with dermatological diseases. Cent Eur J Nurs Midw. 2016;7(3): 467–483.
Uhlenhake E, Yentzer BA, Feldman SR. Acne vulgaris and depression: a retrospective examination. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2010;9(1): 59–63.
Jagtiani A, Nishal P, Jangid P, et al. Depression and suicidal ideation in patients with acne, psoriasis, and alopecia areata. J Mental Health Hum Behav. 2017;22(1):50–54.
Dalgard FJ, Svensson Å, Gieler U, et al. Dermatologists across Europe underestimate depression and anxiety: results from 3635 dermatological consultations. Br J Dermatol. 2018;179(2):464–470.
AlShahwan MA. The prevalence of anxiety and depression in Arab dermatology patients. J Cutan Med Surg. 2015;19(3):297–303.
Duman H, Topal IO, Kocaturk E, Duman MA. Evaluation of anxiety, depression, and quality of life in patients with acne vulgaris, and quality of life in their families. Dermatologica Sinica. 2016;34(1):6–9.
Yosipovitch G, Tang M, Dawn AG, et al. Study of psychological stress, sebum production and acne vulgaris in adolescents. Acta Derm Venereol. 2007;87(2):135–139.
Law MPM, Chuh, AAT, Lee A, Molinari N. Acne prevalence and beyond: acne disability and its predictive factors among Chinese late adolescents in Hong Kong. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2010;35(1):16–21.
Li J, Song J, Zaytseva YY, et al. An obligatory role for neurotensin in high-fat-diet-induced obesity. Nature. 2016;533(7603):411.
Koski M, Naukkarinen H. The relationship between stress and severe obesity: a case-control study. Biomed Hub. 2017;2(1):1–13.
Yazici K, Baz K, Yazici AE, et al. Disease-specific quality of life is associated with anxiety and depression in patients with acne. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2004;18(4):435–439.
Gupta MA, Gupta AK. Depression and suicidal ideation in dermatology patients with acne, alopecia areata, atopic dermatitis and psoriasis. Br J Dermatol. 1998;139:846–850.
Durai PCT, Nair DG. Acne vulgaris and quality of life among young adults in South India. Indian J Dermatol. 2015;60(1):33–40.
Krowchuc DP, Stancin T, Keskinen R, et al. The psychological effects of acne on adolescents. Pediatr Dermatol. 1991;8(4):332–338.
Kellett SC, Gawkrodger DJ. The psychological and emotional impact of acne and the effect of treatment with isotretinoin. Br J Dermatol. 1999;140(2):273–282.
Aktan S, Özmen E, Sanli B. Anxiety, depression, and nature of acne vulgaris in adolescents. Int J Dermatol. 2000;39(5):354–357.
Abdel-Hafez K, Mahran AM, Hofny ER, et al. The impact of acne vulgaris on the quality of life and psychologic status in patient from upper Egypt. Int J Dermatol. 2009;48(3):280–285.
Ismail KH, Mohammed-Ali KB. Quality of life in patients with acne in Erbil city. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2012;10:60.
Shahzad N, Nasir J, Ikram U, et al. Frequency and psychosocial impact of acne on university and college students. J Coll Physicians Surg Pak. 2011;21(7):442–443.
Erdemir AV, Bagci SI, Inan EY, Turan E. Evaluation of social appearance anxiety and quality of life in patients with acne vulgaris. Istanbul Med J. 2013;14(1):35–40.
Chiu A, Chon SY, Kimball AB. The response of skin disease to stress: changes in the severity of acne vulgaris as affected by examination stress. Arch Dermatol. 2003;139(7):897–900.
Shyam A, Anoop TV, Ajayakumar S, et al: A study to determine the quality of life in patients with acne vulgaris. Int J Recent Trends Sci Technol. 2014;12(1):173–176.
Shakoor A, Shaheen JA, Khan JI. Association of anxiety and depression with acne: evaluation of pathoplastic effect of adolescence on this comorbidity. J Pak Assoc Dermatol. 2012;22(4):336–341.
Awad SM, Morsy H, Sayed AA, et al. Oxidative stress and psychiatric morbidity in patients with facial acne. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2018;17(2):203–208.
Hazarika N, Rajaprabha RK. Assessment of life quality index among patients with acne vulgaris in a suburban population. Indian J Dermatol. 2016;61(2):163.
Brown BC, McKenna SP, Siddhi K, et al. The hidden cost of skin scars: quality of life after skin scarring. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2008;61(9):1049–1058.
Chuah SY, Goh CL. The impact of post-acne scars on the quality of life among young adults in Singapore. J Cutan Aesthet Surg. 2015;8(3):153–158.
Acne, anxiety, depression, neurotensin, quality of life
Share on facebook
Facebook
Share on twitter
Twitter
Share on linkedin
LinkedIn
PrevPreviousPerception of Cosmetic Procedures among Middle Eastern Youth
NextAssessing the Risk of Omalizumab Add-on Therapy for Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria during the COVID-19 PandemicNext
Diversity, ethnicity and voice: enabling women to speak up about safety concerns in pregnancy and the postnatal period — University of Leicester
You are here: Home / Academic Departments / Health Sciences / Research / SAPPHIRE (Social science APPlied to Healthcare Improvement REsearch) / Research Projects / Diversity, ethnicity and voice: enabling women to speak up about safety concerns in pregnancy and the postnatal period
There is a lack of research exploring critical relationships between culture, language and patient safety
The Re-Assure project was a pilot to test the use of animation to enable women to share safety concerns about life threatening illness in pregnancy
This follow-on project will test whether the script and storyboard meanings from the Re-Assure film are shared and hold significance for women from South Asian communities
While for the most part, pregnancy and birth is a normal physiological process, emergencies can develop rapidly and unexpectedly with the potential for serious outcomes for mother and/or baby. Policy guidance recommends empowering women to self-care, strengthening families' capacity to contribute to women's safety, and community level programmes to foster help seeking. However, little is known about the implications of patent safety partnerships for women and families of minority cultural and language backgrounds. Further research is needed to ensure that resources and safety programmes are cross-culturally relevant, and informed by the experiences of ethnic minority users of health services.
The Re-Assure project was an arts-science pilot, funded by the Cultural Institute at King's College London, which built on a programme of research [1.,2.] to test the use of animation to enable women to share safety concerns about life threatening illness in pregnancy. With the help of 34 women who had experienced complications in pregnancy, staff from Guy's and St. Thomas' Hospital, 3rd sector organisations and two artists, the research team developed a short 5 minute film about speaking up for safety. The project prompted a social media campaign, 'Always Ask' led by Tommy's charity.
While the demographic profile of the sample for the original research was mixed, the women participants for the Re-Assure project had higher levels of education, and were mostly of white British origin. The Diversity, ethnicity and voice aims to work with local community centres in Leicester to test whether the film and messages about 'speaking up about safety' are culturally relevant for pregnant women in South Asian communities. The project team, which involves the Attenborough Arts Centre and the East Midlands Centre for BME Health, will carry out focus groups and interviews with pregnant women and community leads to explore how best to ensure the resource is culturally and linguistically meaningful. The team will establish the best ways to promote pregnancy related resources through faith based and cultural / social networks.
Dr Andy Willis - Centre for BME Health
Michaela Butter - Attenborough Arts Centre
Gurdeep Sian - Attenborough Arts Centre
Liz Shaw - SAPPHIRE, University of Leicester
The research group have written up an overview of their findings in a flyer.
A news item about the project is available on the Centre for BME Health website.
1. Rance S, McCourt C, Rayment J, et al. Women's safety alerts in maternity care: is speaking up enough? BMJ Qual Saf, 2013:348-55.
2. Mackintosh, N; Rance, S.; Carter, W., Sandall, J., 2017. Working for patient safety: a qualitative study of women's help-seeking during acute perinatal events. BMC pregnancy and childbirth
Blog - Mary Van Doorn
Sweet Treat Conversion
Posted on September 10, 2018 by maryvandoorn
I'm a sucker for the real thing-I'd rather have a small piece/scoop/serving of a sweet treat than a sugar-free version! That being said, there are some times where I want to experiment making some of my favs with stevia (our house's preferred alternative). I came across this conversion table and thought I'd share! […]
Sometimes You Just Need A Bagel
Posted on August 13, 2018 August 13, 2018 by maryvandoorn
Look-I grew up in South Florida and love me a good bagel—what I don't love is the almost 60g of carbs that come with it! (Einstein's Everything Bagel via their website). I found this recipe while searching for fun things to cook in my air fryer, and with only 2 ingredients, I had to give[…]
Posted in Recipes, Uncategorized 1 Comment
Posted on May 25, 2018 by maryvandoorn
It's easy to get off track on the weekend-we're busy, we're out of our routine…there are parties, and BBQs, and running around which sometimes makes it difficult to stay focused on our goals. Check out these 10 tips to help you get through the weekend without too much damage 😉 Get some activity in[…]
9 Grocery Stores That Offer FREE or LOW-COST Meds
Posted on May 9, 2018 May 9, 2018 by maryvandoorn
Diabetes is expensive. It's something we all worry about—Will I be able to afford my medication? What happens if I lose my insurance? While picking up my normal prescriptions at my local Publix, I noticed they had a pamphlet detailing their free drug program. I got curious—how many other stores out there offer[…]
Posted on May 3, 2018 by maryvandoorn
The American Association of Diabetes Educators shares an alphabet for Diabetes self-care! How are YOU doing with your self-care? A- A1C B- Blood pressure C- Cholesterol D- Drink lots of water E- Eye Care F- Foot care and follow up G- Go to Doctor H- Help is not far away I- Importance of mental health[…]
Posted on April 8, 2018 by maryvandoorn
Holy moly these pancakes! You guys–this is my new favorite breakfast and is SO easy to prepare! Ingredients: For pancakes: 1 ripe banana mashed 2 eggs a cap-full of vanilla extract a dash of cinnamon For topping: 2% Greek Yogurt, Vanilla Stevia drops for sweetness Directions: Combine all ingredients for pancakes. Spray skillet with cooking[…]
