Asthma UK response to news that NHS England will conduct a National Clinical Audit into asthma | Asthma UK
Today the Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership (HQIP) has announced it is to commission a National Clinical Audit into asthma on behalf of NHS England as part of the National Clinical Audit programme. Below is our response to the announcement which has just been published online:
Kay Boycott, Chief Executive of Asthma UK, says: "We welcome today's announcement by HQIP that it will commission a National Clinical Audit on behalf of NHS England, a key recommendation in the National Review of Asthma Deaths which found that two thirds of deaths are preventable with good basic care. 1 in 11 people have asthma in the UK yet our research shows that 8 out of 10 people with asthma do not receive care that meets basic clinical standards.
"Our success in the future relies on the findings from this audit being used to improve asthma care for millions of people, to stop asthma attacks and end needless asthma deaths. As the majority of asthma care takes place at the primary level, the audit must be mandatory for all GP practices and primary healthcare providers so that we can focus resources exactly where they are needed. With someone in the UK having an asthma attack every 10 seconds, today's announcement is an important step towards improving care for millions of people with asthma."
National clinical audits collect information about healthcare issues from around the country to improve care and outcomes for patients. The audits are developed in areas of healthcare considered to be the most important, and where it's felt that national results are needed to improve healthcare standards. The information collected in the audits helps patients see how well their local healthcare provider is performing, and also allows NHS organisations to compare outcomes of care, identify and share best practice, and understand where improvements need to be made.
There are already national clinical audits for many other health conditions including COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), diabetes, stroke, cardiac surgery and kidney disease, and they've brought significant benefits for patients affected by these conditions. We've been lobbying for a national clinical audit for asthma for several years, and one of the key recommendations of theNational Review of Asthma Deathswas establishing a national audit for asthma to improve asthma care. Whilst ourresearch has already identified some areas of asthma care where improvement was needed, a national clinical audit would give us more in-depth information on a much wider scale that's crucial for making real improvements. A national clinical audit for asthma would be a unique opportunity for care to be assessed across the UK. Crucially, the audit would provide a way of improving patient care by specifically taking into account people with asthma's experiences of care. It would also help people with asthma make more informed choices about their care by ensuring that information about the quality of care of different practices is available.
Dan Murphy, Director of External Affairs at Asthma UK, says: “Asthma has many complex causes which is why it is very difficult to get a definitive diagnosis. It is also a highly variable condition that can change throughout someone’s life or even week by week, meaning treatment also needs to change over time. For example, children whose asthma is triggered by pollen may have no symptoms during an annual asthma review in winter and present completely differently in the summer. It’s important parents of children with asthma work in partnership with their GP or nurse to build a complete picture of their child’s asthma to tailor their treatment. The annual asthma review meeting is the bedrock of asthma care to ensure people with asthma get the right medication and know when to use it, and yet last year over 1 million people skipped this vital appointment.
“This is a small study that took place in a country that has a very different healthcare system to the UK. It is vital that no parent of a child with an asthma diagnosis stops them taking their medication on the basis of this information, without discussions with their doctor.”
Anyone who is concerned can call the Asthma UK Helpline on 0300 222 5800. Find out more about diagnosing asthma in children.
5.1 The conventional determination of oxygen content in liquid or solid samples is a relatively difficult chemical procedure. It is slow and usually of limited sensitivity. The 14-MeV neutron activation and direct counting technique provides a rapid, highly sensitive, nondestructive procedure for oxygen determination in a wide range of matrices. This test method is independent of the chemical form of the oxygen.
5.2 This test method can be used for quality and process control in the metals, coal, and petroleum industries, and for research purposes in a broad spectrum of applications.
1.1 This test method covers the measurement of oxygen concentration in almost any matrix by using a 14-MeV neutron activation and direct-counting technique. Essentially, the same system may be used to determine oxygen concentrations ranging from under 10 μg/g to over 500 mg/g, depending on the sample size and available 14-MeV neutron fluence rates.
Note 1: The range of analysis may be extended by using higher neutron fluence rates, larger samples, and higher counting efficiency detectors.
1.2 This test method may be used on either solid or liquid samples, provided that they can be made to conform in size, shape, and macroscopic density during irradiation and counting to a standard sample of known oxygen content. Several variants of this method have been described in the technical literature. A monograph is available which provides a comprehensive description of the principles of activation analysis using a neutron generator (1).2
1.4 This standard does not purport to address all of the safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. Specific precautions are given in Section 8.
VA321 Series with wide viewing angle and new SplendidPLUS mode adopts new Flicker-Free technology by DC adjustment backlighting, which clear the annoying flicker and brings comfort viewing experience. Also by effectively reducing blue light, we adopt new user modes for visual pleasure.
VA321 Series adopts 178˚(H) / 178˚(V) ultra wide viewing angle panel that eliminates color shift on your screen no matter where and how you look at it.
When it comes to design, ASUS always have customers in mind – the ASUS VA321N-W features the ASUS-exclusive GamePlus hotkey with crosshair (aimpoint) and timer functions. Gamers can select four different aimpoint types to suit the gaming environment; while the latter keeps players aware of the elapsed time in real-time strategy games. These tools allow gamers to practice and improve on their gaming skills.
The best in convenient and affordable living in all of South Florida. Learn more about our extraordinarily comfortable 2 and 3 bedroom apartment homes here on our official site. Then, stop by and visit our beautiful community, centrally located near the junction of I-95 and Palmetto Expressway in the Miami suburb of Opa Locka.
Adedeji | Cancer in Sub-Saharan Africa | 2017 | Current Practice and Future
Springer-Verlag GmbH. ISBN 978-3-319-52553-2
This book discusses the current state of cancer pathway as it is relevant to sub-Saharan Africa and highlights differences in epidemiology and the underlying problems with management. It outlines the current practice and opinions in all forms of cancer, also highlighting future prospects. Starting by providing background information on the epidemiology and genomic variations, the book then goes on to look at Infection-related cancers and continues to prostate GI, breast cancer and ovarian and cervical cancer. The last part of the book focuses on delivery of affordable and accessible care. Palliative services and primary and transnational research, as well as clinical trials are also discussed.Written by a team of authors based in the UK, Nigeria, South Africa and the US. this book offers an overview of the current state and challenges of cancer care in sub-Saharan Africa, and it would be valuable to policy makers, researchers, funding organisations, and can be an adjunct to standard text books for students, residents and established doctors.
Harrison's Manual of Oncology - Oncology - Books
Harrison's Manual of Oncology is a carry-anywhere guide to the care of patients with cancer. Enhanced by the latest published results, this valuable clinical companion features numerous tables and succinct, outline-style text that puts important information at your fingertips. You will find content that goes beyond the treatment of primary or metastatic disease to encompass the treatment of all therapeutic complications. The opening sections of Harrison's Manual of Oncology are devoted to the classes of agents used to treat cancer and reviews their pharmacology and mechanisms of action. This section is followed by a detailed discussion of the diagnosis, staging, and treatment of all major types of cancer. There is a strong focus on symptom management and complications of treatment, including pain, nausea and vomiting, anemia, febrile neutropenia, metabolic emergencies, thrombosis, psychological issues, and end-of-life care.
Researchers from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Stanford University and the University of Florida report the development of a novel antibody detection technology that holds promise for improving the accuracy of diagnostic tests for type 1 diabetes in young children and making populationwide screening practical.
In a report on the work, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the scientists have said that the technology enables screening for more autoimmune antibodies implicated in type 1 diabetes than current tests by incorporating a full-length pancreatic protein, called the pancreatic zinc transport 8 (ZnT8), that is targeted for autoimmune attack in people with the disease. By improving the accuracy of this test, researchers hope to catch the disease earlier and extend testing to all people.
Type I diabetes, once known as juvenile diabetes, is a relatively rare form of the disorder in which the pancreas produces no insulin.
‘Although current tests are about 94 per cent accurate in detecting the antibodies years before children and young adults lose all blood sugar control, they are not accurate enough to rely upon for population-wide screening, so current antibody testing is limited to confirming diagnosis in symptomatic children and adults. Increasing the test accuracy will help expand screening for asymptomatic type 1 diabetes into the general population,’ explained Dax Fu, PhD, Associate Professor of Physiology at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
At the clinical on-set of type 1 diabetes, most children and young adults develop symptoms, such as fainting, exhaustion, vomiting and confusion. And by then, a large majority of pancreatic beta cells may already be lost.
Fu hopes the new technology will ultimately be combined with current tests to reach the critical 99 per cent accuracy to begin implementing type 1 diabetes tests across the entire population. However, further research is required to improve the design before it becomes clinically available.
ShortCutstv | ShortCutstv Interpretivism: Emergent (Exploratory) Research
Home Blog Interpretivism: Emergent (Exploratory) Research
Although the Hypothetico-deductive model describes an important way of doing research, by way of contrast (since not all sociologists believe the same things or do things in exactly the same way) we can look at an alternative "emergent (
exploratory) research" model that can be closely associated with Interpretivist methodology.
In general, this type of model follows the same basic flow identified by Oberg (1999) – albeit with some significant design modifications – in that it involves:
A research issue is identified and a "research question" or "problem" takes shape. This may flow from background reading on the topic or the researcher may want to "come fresh" to the research to avoid being influenced by what others have said or written.
2a. Information Gathering:
Although the general research process here is superficially similar to that proposed in Popper's Hypothetico-deductive model, major design differences are apparent in the way information is collected. For example, this type of research design is:
a. Non-linear – research is not a process that begins with a hypothesis and ends with it being confirmed or refuted. The objective is not to discover definitive answers to a question, issue or problem; rather, it is to explore issues from a variety of angles. Hence, the idea of this design being:
b. Exploratory: The objective is to explore whatever is being studied in all its facets – from the perspective and perception of the researcher to those of the people being researched.
c. Holistic: This approach involves collecting as much information as possible about whatever is being studied, for a couple of reasons. Firstly the researcher doesn't try to prejudge what is or is not significant at this stage in the research. Secondly, by casting the research net far and wide the researcher involves and co-opts those being studied into the research process; they may, for example, suggest ideas and issues to study that may not have originally occurred to the researcher.
d. Goal-Free: For Lindauer (2005) one significant aspect of exploratory research is that "…research designs are goal-free as opposed to goals-based". The latter is a defining feature of Positivist forms of research where the goal is to confirm or falsify a hypothesis. Interpretivist research design doesn't involve defining in advance what the objective of such research will be; rather, the researcher is free to explore whatever they – or the people they're studying – feel is important or interesting. As Lindauer notes these types of research designs are often "iterative, meaning that they take shape as data collection and analysis proceed".
e. Evolutionary: This relates to the two previous ideas in the sense that research is relatively open-ended – the researcher may, for example, simply follow the leads suggested by the people being studied. Rather than following a pre-determined path, therefore, research design is fluid – it can expand and develop as and how the research situation demands (digging deeper into some areas while disregarding others, for example).
Thus, where the Hypothetico-deductive design framework is rigid, strong and directs the researcher, the reverse is true of exploratory designs – the design framework is flexible, loose and bends to take account of new research developments.
f. Active: Unlike "passive" research designs where the researcher has to carefully distance themselves from whatever is being researched in order to avoid biasing the research, this design generally encourages the active participation of the researcher. Researcher involvement with the people being studied is, consequently, high – they may, for example, live amongst the people being researched for months or even years in some (admittedly quite extreme) instances. Whyte (1943), for example, spent years living openly around the adolescent gang members he studied and Ray (1987) lived covertly for a time with a group of Australian environmentalists.
2b. Information Processing:
Data is analysed, although the researcher is not interested in testing hypotheses. Rather, an attempt may be made to categorise the data in various ways or sift and sort it into some form of descriptive narrative (story). Generally, however, data analysis is, according to Schultz et al (1996) something that happens throughout the research process, rather than simply being completed after data has been collected. This is significant for a couple of reasons:
Firstly this type of design involves a "positive feedback loop" between data collection and data analysis; in other words, when collected data is analysed (and with this type of design there is likely to be mountains of data) such analysis is used to inform further data collection – and further analysis (hence the idea of research "feeding back" into itself in a non-linear way).
Secondly one outcome of this process is that there is no requirement to collect data for the express purpose of proving or disproving something – data analysis, therefore, is both descriptive and multi-faceted (seen from different viewpoints – both that of the researcher and those of the researched).
Conclusions may be offered but it's more likely that the reader will be left to draw their own conclusions from the research. This highlights a further difference in research design between Emergent and Hypothetico-deductive models; the latter, by definition and design, involves the researcher making judgments (about what to research, what data to collect and, ultimately, the status – valid or invalid – of the research hypothesis). The former, however, can be characterised as non-judgemental – the objective of the research is not to decide things like "truth" or "falsity", "validity" or "invalidity"; rather it is to illuminate a particular issue, question or problem by studying it from a multitude of possible viewpoints. As Schwandt (2002) puts it, social research involves not so much a "problem to be solved…as a dilemma or mystery that requires interpretation and self-understanding".
HUAEC were cocultured with human umbilical artery smooth muscle – waithold top
HomeHUAEC were cocultured with human umbilical artery smooth muscle
HUAEC were cocultured with human umbilical artery smooth muscle
Excellent LC and longer DFS could be achieved with SBRT in oligometastatic lung disease from CRC, delaying thus disease progression and the need for further treatment. Question 3 What is the effect of cardiopulmonary resuscitation at birth on survival and neurodevelopmental outcome of extremely preterm infants? Are estrogen-related drugs new alternatives for the management of osteoarthritis? This note describes a method of direct measurement of airborne gamma-rays primarily from 222Rn daughters using a NaI(Tl) scintillation spectrometer with lead shields. Playing With Antidepressants: Perspectives From Indian Australians and Anglo-Australians Living With Depression. Databases for lncRNAs: a comparative evaluation of emerging tools.
Progress in transplantation outcomes generic cialis available depends on continuing research into both donor and recipient factors that may enhance graft and patient survival. Transfer of training effects in stroke patients with apraxia: an exploratory study. The chorea was severe and persisted after the patient was rendered euthyroid. In situ hepatectomy must be adopted if there is extensive adhesion around the tumor. The HIV/AIDS pandemic in sub-Saharan Africa has brought renewed attention to the role of grandmothers as caregivers of children.
The maximum amount of nitrosoHb was generated during the oxidation of deoxyHb. We also discuss evolving knowledge about the origin of the quality gap in pathologic nodal staging and the emerging literature on corrective interventions. Sixty-five patients with lumbar disc pathology were selected prospectively for this study. We have not shown that hypnotherapy has a greater effect on six-month quit rates than other interventions or no treatment.
Optimal location generic cialis available through distributed algorithm to avoid energy hole in mobile sink WSNs. Preliminary attempts to isolate and purify extracellular polysaccharides from A. The topological characteristics of rat myocardial reactivity to noradrenaline, acetylcholine and a change in the electrostimulation frequency DNA microarray technology allows the simultaneous analysis of thousands of sequences of DNA in a relatively short time, making it appropriate for biodefense and for public health uses. Psychosocial therapies in severe mental illness: DGPPN-S3-guideline: evidence, recommendations and challenges for mental health service research
Prevention of the growth of Salmonella infantis in chicks by the flora of the alimentary tract of chickens. Inflammatory response in transapical transaortic valve replacement. On the reaction of methylmercuric hydroxide with methylbabalamin. The participation of civil society in the policymaking process should also be encouraged.
Staff turnover in buy viagra nursing homes for the aged: a review and research proposal. There was change in the 2-D separated protein before and after exposure. Time to union, number of secondary procedures performed to obtain union, implant failures, and the type and incidence of complications. Subjects were slower to approach fearful target expressions and had more difficulty avoiding happy nontarget expressions. P2X1, P2Y1, P2Y2, P2Y4 and P2Y6 receptors were present on circular and longitudinal smooth muscle.
Physiotherapy in medical education in the German Democratic Republic The objects we consider allow us to investigate the separate effects of anisotropy and nonunit aspect ratio. In particular, this review focuses on progress in targeting key steps in the viral replication cycle buy viagra and key cellular components of the host defense system. Lysosomal stress and lipid peroxidation products induce VEGF-121 and VEGF-165 expression in ARPE-19 cells.
In contrast to the general property of cancer, normal human cells have a finite lifespan. Comparative study of motor nuclei of the encephalon of buy viagra neotropical Chiroptera. On examination, the best-corrected visual acuity was counting fingers in the left eye with severe corneal epithelial loss and diffuse corneal oedema. Transcranial magnetic stimulation and connectivity mapping: tools for studying the neural bases of brain disorders. Bivariate random-effects meta-analysis and the estimation of between-study correlation.
Data were collected through a review of the patient medical records. We report here that bio operon expression buy viagra is down-regulated by overproduction of AccC, another acetyl-CoA carboxylase subunit known to form a complex with AccB. Six of the 19 patients underwent core needle biopsy, resulting in a diagnosis of fibroadenoma in four patients and atypical ductal hyperplasia in two patients. Cyclophosphamide and prednisone were initiated for treatment of her vasulculitis. Effects of body position and bolus consistency on the manometric parameters and coordination of the upper esophageal sphincter and pharynx.
A significant difference was also noted between pre-injury drug use and post-injury drug use for both groups. Several clinical studies have recently been published documenting the possible role of adjuvant growth hormone treatment in in vitro fertilization. Modulation of mesoprefrontal dopamine neurons by central benzodiazepine receptors. Role of dopamine tone in the pursuit of brain stimulation reward. Pericardial rupture following blunt chest trauma is rare, and is not usually diagnosed pre-operatively. Silastic cuffed catheters play an increasing role in providing long-term vascular access for hemodialysis.
Results of kinetic experiments demonstrated that the adsorption was effective and rapid. Differential expression of Thy-1 on the various components of connective tissue of rat nerve during postnatal development. Among the 10 chlorination by-products tested, only 2-chlorophenol was generic cialis available found to be weakly estrogenic at concentrations up to 1mg/L. Cloning and characterization of spliced variants of the porcine G protein coupled receptor 120. The effects of glucocorticoid seem to be specific for phagocytic cells, since the glucocorticoid treatment increased PFK-1 and PFK-2 activities in liver. Our objective was to discuss obstacles and barriers to effective communication and collaboration regarding end-of-life issues between intensive care unit nurses and physicians.
Residency in Neurologic Physical Therapy - Cincinnati VA Medical Center
VA » Health Care » Cincinnati VA Medical Center » Residency in Neurologic Physical Therapy
The Physical Therapy (PT) Service at the Cincinnati VA Medical Center (CVAMC) offers a single position for a one-year Neurologic PT Residency in partnership with the University of Cincinnati (UC), College of Allied Health, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences.
Our Residency Program was established in 2015 through an Expanded Physical Therapy Residency Pilot funded by the Office of Academic Affiliations (OAA). Our Program is accredited by the American Physical Therapy Association as a postprofessional residency program for physical therapist in Neurologic Physical Therapy. The initial accreditation is for five years.
Neurologic PT Residency Program Admission Support Information
Our mission is to prepare PT residents for advanced specialty practice. This program will cultivate high level neurologic physical therapists who integrate the teacher-scholar model into their clinical practice. Through neurologic clinical experiences under the mentorship of master clinicians, along with didactic learning experiences in critical neurologic topics including both teaching and research, the program will develop advanced PT practitioners who care for the whole patient and are prepared for board certification in neurologic physical therapy by the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties (ABPTS).
Application for Health Professions Trainee
ABPTRFE Online Directory of Programs (loads quicker in google chrome) *
* Link will take you outside of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) website. The link will open in a new window.
Residents will start their year-long program in July. They will be employed by the Cincinnati VA Medical Center, and therefore need to be a US citizen. Residents will treat a primarily neurologic patient caseload ~30-40 hours/week, rotating through acute inpatient with exposure to specialty populations in intensive care, rehab, long-term care, outpatient, and home-based primary care teams. Residents are involved in mentoring sessions with expert clinicians for not less than 4 hours/week and didactic coursework not more than 8 hours/week. The residents will also participate in periodic specialty clinics (e.g. Pain Management, SCI/ALS, ENT, TBI/Polytrauma, PACT, Movement Disorders, Matter of Balance, and Mobility), as well as program development and a variety of teaching opportunities at the Cincinnati VA Medical Center and University of Cincinnati throughout the year. Residents who successfully complete the program will be eligible to apply to sit for the Neurologic Clinical Specialist (NCS) exam. This is a funded position with benefits.
Applications are reviewed starting in January, with interviews offered on a "first come, first served" basis with final decision no later than April 30. Candidates can apply as students but need to have a plan to graduate and become licensed physical therapists prior to the start date of the residency.
Cincinnati VAMC is a two-division campus located in Cincinnati, Ohio and Fort Thomas, Kentucky and residency program activities will take place primarily at the Cincinnati VAMC. The facility serves fifteen counties in Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana with six Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOC) located in Bellevue, KY; Florence, KY; Lawrenceburg, IN; Hamiliton, OH; Clermont County, OH; and Georgetown, OH. Three Cincinnati VAMC off campus locations are also available to include an Eye Center, Vet Center and Mental Health Outreach Community Division.
Cincinnati VAMC is a 1b complexity, clinical referral facility. It is an affiliated teaching hospital, providing a full range of patient care services, with state-of-the-art technology, medical education, and research. The Medical Center provides comprehensive health care through primary care, dentistry, specialty outpatient services, and tertiary care in areas of medicine, surgery, psychiatry, physical medicine and rehabilitation, and neurology. A Community Living Center (CLC) is located adjacent to the Cincinnati VAMC that provides hospice, palliative care, short-term rehab and long-term care. The facility is a regional referral center for PTSD. Cincinnati VAMC has an active affiliation with the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine and is connected both physically and functionally to the University. Physical Therapy services are provided in the Community Living Center (CLC), to patients enrolled at six community based outpatient clinics (CBOCs), through five homebased primary care teams and at our Domiciliary/Outpatient unit in Northern Kentucky, which houses our new geriatric wellness program. The Physical Therapy department therapy center is located on the second floor of the Cincinnati VAMC. Supervisory staff offices that oversee the provision of outpatient and inpatient services are also located on the second floor.
Within the main campus, residents have opportunities to observe and provide care within an inpatient unit, two ICUs, an outpatient clinic, and collaborate with our Primary Care, Podiatry and Neurology departments. At the CLC, program residents are exposed to extended and long-term care, inpatient rehabilitation, and a palliative care program. Physical Therapy supports a Residential Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Residential Program. The medical center is currently building a new facility on its main campus in Cincinnati for expanded services in rehab, extended, and long-term care.
Outpatient PT is also provided at four CBOCs within the tri-state. Home care services are provided through five HBPC teams that serve a 50-mile radius from each of the six CBOCs. Active telehealth clinics in health promotion and durable medical equipment help to make efficient use of staff time as well as improve continuity of care and utilization of scarce resources.
Cincinnati VAMC consists of 2 divisions located in Cincinnati, Ohio and Fort Thomas, Kentucky
Includes six community-based outpatient clinics, Eye Center, Mental Health Outreach Community Division and Vet Center
Provides services to 15 counties in Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana
Cincinnati VAMC has an active affiliation with the UC College of Medicine
Referral site for neurosurgery
PTSD Residential Programs for Men & Women
PTSD/TBI Residential Program
Iraq/Afghanistan (OEF/OIF/OND) Clinic
Veterans Mobile Health Unit
Other facilities available for teaching experience include:
UC main campus, Physical Therapy Doctoral Program and Undergraduate Health Science Program
Mount St. Joseph University, Physical Therapy Doctoral Program
The mission of the Cincinnati VA Medical Center and University of Cincinnati Residency Program in Neurologic Physical Therapy is to prepare advanced practice practitioners who integrate the teacher-scholar model into their clinical practice through mentorship with master clinicians, structured didactic and clinical learning experiences, and research and teaching opportunities. As high level neurologic PT, graduates will serve as resources and role models within their professional, academic, and social communities and contribute to an expanding body of knowledge through the application of evidence-based practice.
1. Prepare PTs to become advanced practice practitioners of neurologic PT.
The Program will design clinical experiences to demonstrate advanced skills acquisition in the practice dimensions and knowledge areas as described in the current American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties (ABPTS) Description of Specialty Practice (DSP) in Neurologic Physical Therapy.
The program will facilitate competency development through inclusion in Peer Review, Grand Rounds, and Journal Club, opportunities designed to demonstrate advanced application of evidence-based practice.
The Program's faculty will demonstrate advanced application of evaluation tools and mentoring experiences to foster clinical decision making and provide training opportunities to advance skills in the management of the neurologic patient.
The Program will provide learning projects specific to the area of neurologic PT that are designed to enhance understanding and commitment to excellence, professionalism, leadership development, collaborative approach, and patient-centered care.
2. Develop and deliver an experiential curriculum that integrates the teacher-scholar model.
The Program will provide for participation in an APTA CI credentialing course and attendance at a ntaional conference.
The Program will include teaching methodologies within the curriculum to assist the Resident in the creation of didactic tools (e.g., modules) for application within student internships and the Residency Program based upon the DSP in neurologic PT.
The Program will be structured to enable the Resident to acquire teaching experience within the PT Programs of the UC and the Cincinnati VAMC impacting students, interns, and peers in area of specialty.
The Program will provide the Residency faculty with resources and opportunities to develop, practice, and refine their teaching skills.
3. Contribute to an expanding body of knowledge in Neurologic PT.
The Program will provide for opportunities for the Resident to engage in a leadership role in Journal Club with respect to areas pertaining to Neurologic PT through presentations of literature reviews that involve demonstrated ability to analyze research studies in view to design, rationale, methodology, selected instruments, application of statistical tools, outcome measures, and clinical applicability for staff and students.
The Program will encourage the Resident to develop a poster presentation or case study in Neurologic PT for submission to a state or national conference.
The Program will ensure that both Program and Resident needs are met by enabling collaborative experiences with the Neurologic Residency Program Directors in the ongoing development of the Residency Curriculum.
The Program will engage the Resident to reflect and apply learning opportunities in the development of a Neurologic Toolbox, helping to identify and select outcome measures most readily applicable to inpatient and specialty populations.
4. Serve as a resource within professional, academic, and social communities.
Program faculty will help to identify research projects that meet critical needs within a specific neurologic population.
The Program will provide for representation opportunities on collaborative teams and medical center committees, supporting the Resident in serving as Neurologic PT Point of Contact (POC) and as a representative of the Rehabilitation Care Line (RCL).
The Program will seek to serve beyond the clinic through development of community service projects.
The Program will provide for formal and informal mentoring opportunities with PT students interested in Residencies and advanced practice in neurologic PT.
5. Graduate physical therapists who demonstrate professional excellence/virtue and who are prepared to pursue ABPTS certification as a neurologic clinical specialist.
The Program will demonstrate a commitment to ICARE core values and characteristics through exemplary professional conduct and behavior at all times.
The Program's curriculum will include opportunities to participate in professional organizations at local, regional, and/or national levels.
The Program's curriculum will address all aspects of the Neurologic PT DSP within both clinical and didactic elements.
The Program will enable opportunities for organizational stewardship within the curriculum through participation in the ongoing review and development of Residency Program materials and resources along with recruitment efforts for the Residency Program.
Residents will be temporary appointments in a not-to-exceed 366 day hire status. As employees of the Cincinnati VAMC they will be entitled to the following benefits:
$45,239 stipend
Paid leave days: 13 vacation; 13 sick; 10 federal holidays observed
Authorized absence to attend selected/approved continuing education
Personal workstation/desk area
Office supplies/resources/support personnel
Medical media services: reproduction; creative/development services
Staffed library and access to online library services
APTA CI certification
Admission requirements for the residency are established by the Residency Committee as guided by the Office of Academic Affiliation (OAA) Physical Therapy Education Enhancement: New and Expanded Pilot Physical Therapy Residency Programs, VHA Handbook 1170.03 Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Service (PM&RS) Procedures, VA Manual M-8 Part 1 Chapter 2, Affiliations with Academic Institutions, and VA Handbook 5005/99, Part II, Appendix G12 Physical Therapist Qualification Standard and may include but are not limited to:
Graduation from a degree program in physical therapy from an approved college or university approved by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE). Any licensed PT, regardless of academic degree, would be eligible to apply for a residency position. This would include Bachelors prepared, Masters prepared, and Doctoral prepared individuals.
Current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice PT in a State, Territory of Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.
Note: Non-licensed graduate PT's who otherwise meet basic requirements for VA employment are eligible for the residency program per VHA Handbook 2005/99 dated February 7, 2018.
A completed application package through the Residency/Fellowship Physical Therapist Centralized Application Service (RF-PTCAS)
Acceptance into the residency program is based on knowledge, skills, and abilities that demonstrate an aptitude for a career as a neurologic PT.
Applications are evaluated per the following criteria:
Clinical experiences related to neurologic PT
Continuing education related to neurologic populations
Research: exposure to and areas of interest
Minimal eligibility for residency selection:
Licensure as indicated above at the start of the residency
Completion of required federal forms: Application for Health Professions Trainees (VA Form- 1—2850D) and Declaration for Federal Employment (OF 306)
Highly regarded applicants are those who:
Demonstrate superior written and spoken communication skills
Have completed an advanced internship under the mentoring of a neurologic clinical specialist
Demonstrate experience in data analysis and publication
Demonstrate a passion to work with the neurologic client through the acquisition of advanced clinical reasoning and application within the practice of neurologic PT
Demonstrate a desire to explore federal employment opportunities in neurologic PT
Applications are accepted on a fixed but flexible basis (start date within the fiscal year as determined by the OAA funding requirements). Only applicants who provide a completed application package will be selected for interview by the Residency Committee. The selected candidate must meet the all the criteria for federal employment as a VA postdoctoral resident. Final selection will be determined through Human Resources contact to PT Supervisor indicating all required elements have been satisfied and applicant has committed to residency.
The OAA leads the VHA health professions statutory education mission that enables VA to enhance the learning environment, to provide excellent care to Veterans, and to develop, recruit, and retain high quality professional staff. The VHA Workforce Succession Strategic Plan annually has identified PT as one of VHA's top ten priority disciplines for recruitment and retention. Physical Therapy Residency training programs are effective mechanisms for the development of a recruitment pool of skilled PTswho will be able to work with Veterans to assist them in managing their clinical needs.
It is the desire of the Cincinnati Rehabilitation Care Line "to continually challenge our knowledge, engage our compassion and commit to personal growth as dedicated healthcare providers."
Alpha Iota Delta » Fellows » Marvin Troutt
Marvin D. Troutt is a Distinguished Scholar Award (2005) Professor in the Department of Management & Information Systems and the Graduate School of Management in the College of Business at Kent State University, Kent, Ohio. in addition to his research and teaching, he guides the research of colleagues and doctoral students, having directed over 20 dissertations. He received the PhD in Mathematical Statistics from The University of Illinois at Chicago in 1975, the M.S. in Applied Mathematics in 1970 and the B.S. in Mathematics and Statistics in 1966 from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He worked as an actuary at Bankers Life & Casualty Company, Chicago, Illinois, 1966-1970, and earned the Associate of the Society of Actuaries (A.S.A.) designation from the Society of Actuaries in 1978 through competitive examinations. He worked in the Office of Institutional Research and Studies at Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois, 1978-79.
Prof. Troutt served as an Associate Editor of Decision Sciences Journal, 1987-2003. He is an Associate Editor of the Journal of Organizational and End User Computing and serves on the Editorial Advisory Board of Computers & Operations Research, and The International Journal of Mathematics in Operational Research. He was designated a Fellow of DSI in 2001. He has served as the Director of the Center for Information Systems at Kent State University, 1998-200, and the Henry J. Rehn Research Professor in Management at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, 1990-1998. He served as Visiting Scholar in the Department of Applied Mathematics at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University during 1994-95. In 1986 he attended the A.A.C.S.B. Advanced Faculty Development Institute in M.I.S.
He has coauthored two books and published over 200 refereed articles, book chapters, and Proceedings. His work has appeared in such journals as: Advances & Applications in Statistics, Annals of Operations Research, Business Process Management Journal, Computers & Industrial Engineering, Computers & Operations Research, Decision Sciences, Decision Support Systems, Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences, European Journal of Operational Research, INTERFACES, International Journal of Business and Economics, International Journal of Operations and Production Management, International Journal of Operational Research, International Journal of Operations and Production Management, International Journal of Production Research, International Journal of Mathematics in Operational Research, International Journal of Strategic Decision Sciences, International Journal of Technology Intelligence and Planning, Journal of Applied Meteorology, Journal of Benchmarking for Quality, Management and Technology, Journal of Business and Economics Research
Prof. Troutt has coauthored two books:
Troutt, M.D., Pang, W. K. and Hou, S. H., 2004. Vertical Density Representation and its Applications, World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd., Singapore.
Higuchi, T. and Troutt, M. D., 2008. Life Cycle Management in Supply Chains: Identifying Innovations through the Case of the VCR. April. IGI Global Publishing Company, Hershey, PA.
His major interests have been in the application of mathematical programming and optimization techniques to the areas of multicriteria optimization, input-output efficiency analysis and parameter estimation. His 1994 article in Operations Research developed a criterion function gradient scaling method and an information elicitation technique for interactive multiple criteria optimization problems. His recent work in this area seeks to apply such methods to interactive spreadsheet model solution as a generalization of single criterion goal-seeking.
Closely related to the above estimation work is the topic of Vertical Density Representation (VDR) This new density analysis technique has been described in the Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences in 1999. VDR is a new approach to representing multivariate probability density functions, which was originated by Prof. Troutt 1993. The VDR technique has recently been used to split ordinary Pearson correlation into two separate components. This has promise in improving the aggregation of forecasts and expert opinions. In addition, VDR has recently been applied to designing Chaos functions for generating uniform random numbers. VDR has a number of applications to computer simulation and several of these are discussed in Prof. Troutt's book with W.K. Pang and S. H. Hou, both at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
The above research was in part motivated by a pet problem of career-long interest to Prof. Troutt. This problem is a version of inverse optimization in the linear programming context. Namely, given a series of input and output vectors, as in input-output efficiency analysis, is it possible to infer or fit a linear programming model to the data in the following way. Namely, the input vectors are to be interpretable as the available resources or right hand side constraint levels, and the outputs are optimal or approximately optimal solutions to the unknown linear programming model. Together with colleagues a general solution was finally obtained and published in the article: Troutt, M. D., Brandyberry, A. A., Sohn, C. and Tadisina, S. K. 2008. "Linear programming system identification: The general nonnegative parameters case". European Journal of Operational Research 185(1), 63-75.
Prof. Troutt's other research areas of interest include data mining, knowledge management, evolutionary and genetic optimization algorithms, and quality assurance theory and applications, aggregation of expert information, mode estimation, methods for bias reduction, decision support techniques and systems, decision "bootstrapping", manager versus model of the manager, supply chain management issues such as fair revenue and cost sharing and strategic design, strategic design issues in supply chains, and general research methods. He has participated in research grants from Southern Illinois University a Carbondale, Kent State University and the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
SoluLinK Inc Awarded SBIR NIAID Phase I Grant for Development of a Multiplexed Vaccine Titer Assay
SoluLinK, Inc. Announces IRS Federal Grant Award to Advance its New Multiplexing and Detection Technology for Research and Diagnostics Applications Used for Accelerating Therapeutics Development Aduro Biotech Announces Three Grants
SoluLinK, Inc. Introduces First-Ever Digoxigenin Antibody Labeling Kit with Built-in Quantification Diamyd Medical AB Awarded Three Million Dollar Grant and Expands the NTTDS Portfolio
DiscoveryBioMed Receives $1.35 Million SBIR Award from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to Continue Its Cystic Fibrosis Drug Discovery Program Theralpha Receives Major Grant for Pain Drug Development
Pressure BioSciences, Inc. (BBII) Awarded National Institutes of Health (NIH) SBIR Phase I Grant for the Development of an Automated, Pressure-Enhanced System for the Routine Processing of Cancer and Other Tissue Samples Opko Health, Inc. Announces Grant from Penn Center for Orphan Disease Research and Therapy
Dr. Ruchika Sood , Best IVF Specialist, Infertility Doctor in New Delhi
Home Our Expert Our Doctor Dr. Ruchika Sood
Associate Consultant Infertility
NABH Accredited IVF Centre
Our fertility specialist, Dr. Ruchika Sood is here to help you answer all your fertility questions and provide the right treatment.
Dr. Ruchika Sood is working as Associate Consultant Infertility at Ferticity Fertility Clinics. She has been treating infertility patients for more than 7 years and has excellent theoretical and practical knowledge of handling Obstetrics, Gynaecology and infertility patients.
She is an expert in handling all kinds of major and minor Obstetrics and Gynaecology cases. During her post-graduation and senior residency she had a great interest in reproductive medicine and ultrasound. Following her passion, she completed a Diploma in Assisted Reproductive Technique from Indian Fertility Society (IFS) with distinction and was awarded Dr. Sonia Malik Prize Best Clinical Fellow (2nd in exit exam).
Awarded a Certificate of Appreciation for providing excellent services by Rogi kalyan samiti and SDDMSC, August 2017
Awarded a Certificate of Appreciation for commendable contribution in Family planning services, 2018-19
Awarded Dr. Sonia Malik Prize Best Clinical Fellow (2nd in exit exam) during 17th annual conference of Indian Fertility Society, Fertivision 2021
Awarded Silver medal for Best Clinical Fellow (2nd in exit exam) during 17th annual conference of Indian Fertility Society, Fertivision 2021
Conference Attended And Presentations
Attended numerous conferences and workshops during post graduation and senior residency and fellowship
Presented Papers and Posters in various conferences and workshops
Participated as a Trainer in 2 week Pharmacy practice Module Advanced learning series in MM College of Pharmacy, July 2014
Participated in 2 days Care around birth Implementation Training, 2017
Completed IAP Basic life support, Jan 2018
Participated as Faculty in 16th annual conference of Indian Fertility Society, Fertivision 2020
Dealing with Infertility Issues or planning to build a family? Get your 'First Free Consultation' from Dr. Ruchika Sood the Best IVF specialist, Ferticity Fertility Clinics located in Malviya Nagar. Book an Appointment or Call us at (+91-11-45890000 | +91 9910120674) to make your dream of motherhood come true.
