Episode 170: Managing MS Pain with Dr. Dawn Ehde and Dr. Heidi Maloni – RealTalk MS
Episode 170: Managing MS Pain with Dr. Dawn Ehde and Dr. Heidi Maloni
MS-related pain is one of those invisible symptoms that can have a profound impact on your quality of life. So we're devoting this entire episode of RealTalk MS to taking a deep dive into assessing and managing MS-related pain with my guests, Dr. Dawn M. Ehde and Dr. Heidi Maloni. Both of my guests are experts at assessing, treating, and managing MS-related pain, but each approaches pain from a slightly different perspective.
Dr. Ehde is a clinical psychologist and professor of rehabilitation medicine at the University of Washington, where she has an endowed professorship in Multiple Sclerosis Research. Dr. Ehde and her group at UW have published the results of several studies on MS-related pain in peer-reviewed medical journals.
Dr. Heidi Maloni is a nurse practitioner and the National Clinical Nursing Director for the Multiple Sclerosis Center of Excellence East at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Dr. Maloni heads up research programs to further the understanding of MS and its impact on Veterans while also aiding in the development of treatments to manage the disease and its symptoms.
Privacy Policy | sarimin
Among the types of Personal Data that this Application collects, by itself or through third parties, there are: Geographic position, Cookie, Usage data, Movement activity and Heart rate and other vital data.
These services allow the Owner to use the activity data collected by your device in order for this Application to operate or to provide specific features. This may include movements, heartbeat, change in altitude or data about the surroundings.Depending on what is described below, third parties may be involved in the activity tracking.Most devices allow for the User to control which Data is accessed or stored.
This Application may collect, use, and share User location Data in order to provide location-based services.Most browsers and devices provide tools to opt out from this feature by default. If explicit authorization has been provided, the User's location data may be tracked by this Application. Personal Data collected: Geographic position.
The Data concerning the User is collected to allow the Owner to provide its services, as well as for the following purposes: Location-based interactions, Analytics and Handling activity data. The Personal Data used for each purpose is outlined in the specific sections of this document.
More details concerning the collection or processing of Personal Data may be requested from the Data Controller at any time. Please see the contact information at contact.
FantaVerse | Privacy Policy
FantaVerse ("us", "we", or "our") is the operator of www.fantaverse.io ("the Website"). This Privacy Policy stipulates how we collect, use, share, protect and disclose personal data when you use our Services.
We use your data to provide and improve the Services. By using the Services, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy. Unless otherwise defined in this Privacy Policy, terms used in this Privacy Policy have the same meanings as in our Terms of Use.
We may also collect information that your browser sends whenever you visit our Service or when you access the Service by or through a mobile device ("data"). These data may include your IP address, browser type and version, the pages, time and date of your visit to our website, etc. Mobile data may include information such as type of mobile device, unique ID/IP address, mobile operating system, etc.
We use cookies (session cookies, preference cookies, security cookies) to track activities and improve our Services. You can choose to set your browser to reject cookies, or to notify you as soon as possible if cookies are loaded into your browser. However, if you disable your browser cookies, it is possible that you may not be able to use some parts of our Services.
(i) To provide, maintain and notify you about changes to our Services.
(ii) Enables you to participate in interactive features of our Services.
(iii) To provide customer support and improve our Services.
(iv) To monitor, detect, prevent and resolve technical issues.
FantaVerse takes all necessary steps to secure and protect your data in accordance to this Privacy Policy. Your personal data and information may be transferred and maintained outside your country where data protection laws may differ than those in your jurisdiction. Your consent to this Privacy Policy followed by your submission of such information represents your agreement to that transfer.
4. DISCLOSURE/SHARING OF DATA
For legal reasons or in the event of disputes, FantaVerse may share your information if we believe it is required by applicable law, regulation, operating agreement, legal process or governmental request. This includes sharing your information with law enforcement officials, government authorities or other third parties as necessary to enforce our Terms of Use Agreement, user agreements or other policies to protect FantaVerse's rights or property or the rights or property of others, or in the event of a claim or dispute relating to your use of our Services.
Despite technical and security measures adopted by us, we cannot guarantee that the information transmitted via the Internet is 100% safe. We will not be held liable for any loss or damage arising from or caused by any event that may occur in connection with unauthorized access to your personal data, and we shall not be held liable for compensation for such loss or damage.
We may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our Services and/or to provide the Services on our behalf. These third parties have access to your Personal Data only to perform these tasks on our behalf and are obligated not to disclose or use it for any other purposes.
Our Services may contain links to other sites not operated by us. When you click and be directed to third party's sites, we have no control and assume no responsibility for their content, services and policies.
Our Services are meant for anyone age 18 and above. We do not knowingly collect or store any personal information from anyone under the age of 18. If parents believe that we have unintentionally collected their children's personal information, they may request the deletion of the information.
We reserve the right to modify the Privacy Policy from time to time and the amended Privacy Policy will take effect immediately upon publishing on the website. You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes and immediately stop accessing this website if you do not agree with the changes. Your continual use of this website/Services after an updated version of this Privacy Policy is released shall be deemed that you agree to and comply with the updated Privacy Policy.
Human RNF8 Antibody AF7114: R&D Systems
Home » RNF8 » Human RNF8 Antibody
Human RNF8 Antibody
Detects human RNF8 in direct ELISAs and Western blots. In direct ELISAs, approximately 100% cross-reactivity with recombinant mouse RNF8 is observed.
E. coli-derived recombinant human RNF8
Met1-Val124
Accession # O76064
Detection of Human RNF8 by Western Blot. Western blot shows lysates of HepG2 human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line and U2OS human osteosarcoma cell line. PVDF membrane was probed with 1 µg/mL of Sheep Anti-Human RNF8 Antigen Affinity-purified Polyclonal Antibody (Catalog # AF7114) followed by HRP-conjugated Anti-Sheep IgG Secondary Antibody (Catalog # HAF016). A specific band was detected for RNF8 at approximately 65 kDa (as indicated). This experiment was conducted under reducing conditions and using Immunoblot Buffer Group 1.
Background: RNF8
RNF8 (RING [really interesting gene] finger protein 8; also E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase RNF8) is a 55-58 kDa member of the RNF8 family of proteins. It is ubiquitously expressed, and serves as an E3 ubiquitin ligase. RNF8 is recruited to DNA double-strand breaks by phosphoMDC1, where it promotes the ubiquitination of histones H2A and H2AX. This, in turn, may result in the recruitment of 53BP1, a scaffold protein that holds DNA damage response elements. Human RNF8 is 485 amino acids (aa) in length. It contains one forkhead associated domain (aa 38-92), a Gln-rich segment (aa 276-345), and one Zn-finger region (aa 403-441). There is one utilized phosphorylation site at Ser157. Two potential isoforms are reported. One shows an 18 aa substitution for aa 81-485, while another possesses a 36 aa substitution for aa 413-485. RNF8 apparently undergoes ubiquitination, generating multiple isoforms that run at 62-72 kDa in SDS-Page. Over aa 1-124, human RNF8 shares 74% aa identity with mouse RNF8.
9025 (Human); 58230 (Mouse)
ActA Binding Protein 2; C3HC4-type zinc finger protein; EC 6.3.2; EC 6.3.2.-; FLJ12013; KIAA0646UBC13/UEV-interacting ring finger protein; ring finger protein (C3HC4 type) 8; ring finger protein 8E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase RNF8; RNF8
Stiff Person Syndrome | Johns Hopkins Medicine
Home > Neurology and Neurosurgery > Centers & Clinics > Stiff Person Syndrome
Conditions We Treat: Stiff Person Syndrome
Stiff person syndrome (SPS) is a very rare disease affecting only one or two people per million. It causes progressive muscle stiffness and painful spasms that can be triggered by a variety of things including sudden movement, cold temperature or unexpected loud noises.
Stiff Person Syndrome: Why Choose Johns Hopkins
Johns Hopkins' Stiff Person Syndrome Center follows more people with this condition than anywhere in the world and maintains a huge database of clinical findings and outcomes. This means we have access to the latest knowledge in stiff person syndrome and can apply that insight to each patient.
Patients with stiff person syndrome will benefit from our multifaceted approach to treatment, with insights from experts in autoimmune disorders, neurology, neuro-visual problems, movement disorders and chronic pain management.
You will get a thorough assessment that may include a series of tests and evaluations over several days (if needed) in order to develop an individualized treatment plan.
Regular follow-up care with our team helps your doctors support your optimal health for the long term.
Stiff Person Syndrome Diagnosis
Tests for diagnosing stiff person syndrome may include the following:
serum anti-GAD (glutamic acid decarboxylase) 65 antibody
serum amphiphysin antibody
several other serum autoantibodies, hemoglobin A1c and vitamin levels
neurophysiological studies (electromyography, or EMG)
whole body fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) with computerized tomography (CT) scan
Consumer Driven Health Care a Proven Cost-Saving Strategy | Featured Latest News
December 11, 2012 /0 Comments/in Featured, Press Releases, Press Releases: Health Care, Press Releases: Healthcare Transparency /by Editorial Staff
Massachusetts lags behind other states in adopting plans that use consumer engagement to reduce costs and improve the quality of care
BOSTON – As part of a push to contain health care cost growth, business leaders, state administrators, and policymakers should focus on Consumer Driven Health Care (CDHC) plans that involve consumers in making health care decisions, according to a Pioneer Institute report issued today.
The author of Consumer Driven Health Care: A New Agenda for Cost Control in Massachusetts is Dr. Amy Lischko, a senior fellow at Pioneer Institute and an associate professor at Tufts University School of Medicine. Lischko's past experience includes serving as Commissioner of the Division of Health Care Finance and Policy, and numerous consulting engagements with AcademyHealth, Mathematica Policy Research, the National Governor's Association, and individual states.
Massachusetts faces two critical health care challenges. Health care costs borne by Massachusetts' employers and employees are among the nation's highest, and the commonwealth's high insurance premiums disproportionately impact low-income working families.
In an effort to control costs earlier this year, the Massachusetts Legislature passed Chapter 224, a law that granted preference to alternative payment contracts and Accountable Care Organizations. This "supply-side" approach leaves health care decisions largely outside consumers' control.
"The new state health care law, formally known as Chapter 224, will not succeed unless consumers are engaged," said Pioneer's Director of Health Care Policy Josh Archambault. "Patients need to be value-seekers for routine care, rewarding medical professionals who provide lower cost, high-quality care. Otherwise, the government will be in the business of containing costs through informal – or perhaps formal – rationing of care."
In Consumer Driven Health Care, author Amy Lischko recommends coupling this law with a "demand-side" approach to cost containment, such as Consumer Driven Health Care (CDHC) plans. These plans have been shown to reduce health care spending, engage consumers and improve health more than traditional plans
Drawing on a review of recent literature and interviews with brokers, employer groups, and insurers, Dr. Lischko provides a historical perspective on CDHC in Massachusetts, exploring how it can help constrain heath care costs and increase patient engagement in health care decision-making.
"I was surprised by the availability of information regarding costs and quality, and by how well these plans have adapted to trends in the marketplace to address consumers' concerns about preventive care," remarked Dr. Lischko.
Critics mistakenly consider CDHC plans to be simply a high-deductible health plan, or a vehicle for employers to shift costs. But the report finds that recent changes in plan design have addressed most concerns raised. Evidence from both the private market and public programs shows that adopting CDHC plans has translated into tens of millions in savings for patients, employers, and government.
For patients, CDHCs can result in as much as 28 percent lower premium contributions, savings through a tax-advantaged health account that covers more out-of-pocket expenses, and increased engagement in preventive health programs.
For employers, CDHCs can result in premium contributions that are as much as 20 percent lower in the first year, average savings of $1,500 per employee, and healthier employees.
For state governments, the most promising of these programs' is Indiana's, which began offering its CDHC plans with health savings accounts in 2006, and has enrolled 90 percent of the state workforce. Enrollees saved $7-8 million in 2010.
In Massachusetts, significant government regulatory involvement in the insurance marketplace, along with a culture of generous coverage and the prevalence of HMOs, has left the state far behind others in embracing CDHC.
Dr. Lischko recommends concrete actions that state and federal policymakers and employers can take to improve access to these plans, including:
o State policymakers must revisit the empirical data on outcomes of CDHC plans
o State policymakers must ensure that the public has access to data on the cost of health care services
o The Group Insurance Commission should be required to offer CDHC plans with HSAs as an option for the state workforce
o Employers should offer CDHC plans with HSAs alongside traditional plans, educate and engage their workforce regarding health care decision-making, and add wellness benefits
"Managed care and capitation without consumer engagement was a dismal failure because consumers did not understand it, and fought against the very mechanisms that kept their premiums constrained," said Dr. Lischko. "CDHC plans can complement Massachusetts' approach to lowering costs."
This is the first in a series of reports by Pioneer's Center for Health Care Solutions aimed at improving patient-centered approaches to limiting health care costs in Massachusetts. Recent research has included: Impact of the Federal Health Law's "Cadillac Tax" in Massachusetts, Business Solutions to the Health Care Cost Crunch, and Pioneer's critically acclaimed book on state-driven health care reform, The Great Experiment. [Learn more at: http://greatexperiment.org/]
Tags: CDHC, consumer, health care, HSA
ACA Impact, Part 5: New $63 Per-Head TaxPioneer's www.massreportcards.com makes comparing schools a breeze
Viroqua Healing Arts Center | Oncology Massage
Kathy Doerfer, BSN, LMT
Zero Balancing, Oncology Massage
Nurturing Touch for Challenging TimeS
Oncology massage is the adaptation of massage to safely nurture the body, mind and spirit of anyone who has been diagnosed with cancer. Oncology massage therapists assess the current health status of their clients and modify their sessions to accommodate the changes that often accompany cancer and its treatment.
Adjustments may be made in the pacing of the massage, the amount of pressure that is used and the stroke direction. At times, specific areas of the body may be approached with only gentle touch to prevent complications or injury to delicate tissues that have been compromised during cancer treatment.
In oncology massage, modifications are made to provide safe nurturing touch...
*Before, during or after chemotherapy and/or radiation
*Before and after surgery
*When the lymphatic system is compromised due to the radiation or removal of lymph nodes or when lymphedema is present
*When the immune system is compromised
*During periods of fatigue
*When peripheral neuropathy has caused numbness or pain in the hands or feet
*For those with low platelets or RBCs
*When bone pain or bone metastases is present
*When ports or PICC lines are present
*For those who have had cancer treatment at any time in their lives
A thorough health history is taken and care is coordinated with the clients' oncology treatment team whenever possible.
The nurturing touch of massage can be an oasis, a welcome respite in the midst of the turmoil of a cancer diagnosis and its treatment. Oncology massage is oriented to provide comfort. It can also address specific side effects of cancer treatment and strengthen and support vital organs, immune function, the nervous system and psychological and emotional well-being.
Clinical research shows that massage can improve some of the symptoms of cancer and side effects of treatment. The most commonly reported benefits of massage for people living with cancer are...
Decreased numbness in hands and feet
Easing of feelings of isolation
The aim of oncology massage is to support the whole person during and after cancer treatment.
Cancer affects not only the person who has received the diagnosis but also those who care about and for them. Massage can be a powerful ally to help cope with the emotional and often physical strain of caring for a loved one who is dealing with cancer.
My Approach to Massage and Bodywork
With an awareness of and deep respect for the essential wholeness of each person that I work with, my focus is to simultaneously, through touch, address the physical structure and the energetic body. The aim is to help people move closer to an experience of balance, ease and connection with their most strong, steady and stable selves.
Zero Balancing (ZB), holistic massage, craniosacral therapy and acupressure are the principle modalities that I have integrated into my practice. ZB utilizes joint traction and applied pressure to areas of need to create still points around which the body and mind can organize and balance. Long flowing strokes, deep pressure or gliding pressure to areas of increased tension, rocking of the spine and passive joint mobilization are potent bodywork tools that are used to address pain and promote relaxation. Cranio-sacral therapy involves the gentle holding of the bones of the cranium and lower spine to invoke a profound calm that nurtures and restores at the deepest levels of the nervous system. The use of acupressure supports and strengthens the vital organ systems and the whole body.
Knowledge and experience in multiple modalities from Eastern and Western perspectives allows me to work with precision and depth to help people find relief from musculoskeletal tension and pain, headaches, anxiety, depression, grief, chronic pain and the effects of cancer and its treatment.
In my practice I have experience working with people in all phases of the health continuum, from the physically robust to the stressed and frazzled to the medically frail. I believe that skilled and loving touch can be a powerful tool for anyone seeking to find greater ease and comfort in their body at any stage in life or state of health.
I have been in practice as a massage and bodywork therapist since 1985 and hold a State of Wisconsin license (#2510-146). In addition I am a hospice volunteer and a member of the Society for Oncology Massage.
In 1980 I received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Nursing from Rush University in Chicago.
My Oncology Massage education was initiated with Oncology Massage Therapy; Caring for Clients with Cancer, a four day intensive course covering the essentials of massage care for people in any stage of the cancer journey. Tracy Walton, a respected researcher, author and pioneer in the field of oncology massage taught this class. (tracywalton.com) Additionally, I completed the courses, Understanding and Supporting Energy Depletion with Eastern Bodywork, and Oncology Massage I and II; Blending East with West. Isabel Adkins taught these courses. She is a lead teacher and author and has integrated an Eastern bodywork perspective into the study and practice of oncology massage. (OncologyMassageMatters.com)
My initial training in bodywork was at the Chicago National College of Naprapathy. Naprapathy is a structural form using gentle rhythmic pressure to restore integrity and function to the spinal column. I went on to receive Zero Balancing certification and have continued to study various forms of structural and energetic bodywork including Healing Touch, Reiki, craniosacral therapy and acupressure.
The study and practice of oncology massage has brought me full circle, beginning with my initial impulse to provide comfort and healing as a nurse within the Western medical model of health care. My study and career as a massage therapist and bodyworker has and continues to fulfill my desire to explore and experience a holistic approach to healing. Providing massage to people who have cancer is giving me the opportunity to learn about this complex disease and its treatment and to integrate the perspectives of modern and traditional healing systems.
All illness awakens us to the preciousness of each human life and this is especially true of cancer. I consider it a privilege and an honor to do the work that I do and I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to provide care and comfort to those whose lives are touched by cancer.
And the hands go and go:
The sacred surfaces are smoothed. –Pablo Neruda
For questions or to schedule an appointment call 608-637-7600 ext 24 or email kathy.doerfer@viroquahealingarts.com
Weekly Update on Ebola Virus Disease (EVD): Preparedness for South Sudan Update #43 (08 July 2019) – Arab Press Releases
Two suspected Ebola virus disease (EVD) alert were reported in Yei on 5 and 6 July 2019. Samples was shipped to Juba National Public Health Laboratory (NPHL) for preliminary testing and sent for confirmation in Uganda Virus Research Institute (UVRI). Results are expected between 8 and 10 July respectively.
On 6 July 2019 the first preliminary test for Ebola conducted at the national Public Health Laboratory in Juba using the recently installed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) machine was invalid. Confirmation is now being pursued from the Uganda Virus Research Institute.
84,804 screenings were conducted for EVD at 31 points of entry during week 27. The cumulative number of screenings conducted since August 2018 is 2,494,212.
EVD Secretariat and WHO convened a meeting with implementing partners to coordinate follow up actions following the confirmed case of EVD in Ariwara in DRC, just 70 km away from South Sudan. Staff from WHO, IOM and WFP deployed to Yei to engage with partners and review and strengthen preparedness measures. The team comprised WHO (Logistician, HF IPC WASH, Risk Communication and Epidemiologist) and humanitarian partners (IOM and WFP). On Friday 5th July the WHO team travelled overland to Kaya border crossing where they provided technical supervision and guidance to the implementing partner to isolate, install IPC measures, collect and pack samples and manage a suspect patient.
IOM continues to monitor people crossing the DRC border to South Sudan, and strengthen screening.
The EVD Secretariat and WHO provided a briefing to Heads of Cooperation in South Sudan, with epidemiological updates, a summary of preparedness measures to date, and an overview of the funding situation and additional requirements.
On July 5 2019, the Undersecretary for Health, Dr. Makur Kariom issued a press release on the situation of Ebola preparedness activities in South Sudan. He reaffirmed the government's commitment towards EVD prevention and preparedness, and acknowledged ongoing efforts of donors and operational partners.
2. Situation update – Democratic Republic of Congo
As of 6 July 2019, 2,408 confirmed cases and 1,625 deaths (case fatality rate 67.5 %) had been reported.
90 new cases and 139 deaths were reported over a one week period (25 June to 2 July) indicating that the outbreak is not under control.
Ring vaccinations continue around Ariwara within close proximity of South Sudan border with some 626 frontline health care workers vaccinated as of 1 July.
3. Situation update – Uganda
As of 6 July 2019, a total of 3 cases had been confirmed, all of which resulted in death (case fatality rate 100%).
4 July 2019 was day 21 since the death of the last confirmed case. 93 contacts have been under follow up with no one reported with developing signs and symptoms suggestive of EVD since the outbreak was declared on June 12th 2019.
1,437 individuals have been vaccinated: 78 contacts, 747 contacts of contacts and 612 frontline health workers.
Active case search and death surveillance are ongoing in the health facilities and the communities as the district response team continue to investigate all alerts.
All StocksCellular Biomedicine Group
Cellular Biomedicine Group is a biomedicine firm engaged in the development of new treatments for degenerative and cancerous diseases utilizing proprietary cell therapy technologies. It is the result of the acquisition, transfer, commercialization, and advancement of thirty years of research and human treatment experience in cellular medicine. Its cellular research and development is the result of...Read more
Ncds deserve more attention - PAWS Health Initiative
by Ayobami Ayodele | Jan 16, 2019 | Non-communicable diseases | 2 comments
This year has had its fair share of global health disasters. From another Ebola outbreak in DRC to cholera, humanitarian crises and collapse of the public health system in Yemen, global health leaders have been kept on their toes all year long.
The opioid crises and gun violence in the United States of America have also commanded a great deal of attention amidst outbreaks of other infectious diseases we are familiar with; tuberculosis and measles across Europe and South America.
While these diseases made theatrical entrances into the year 2018, a comparatively quiet class of diseases – the noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) – have claimed more lives.
In 2018, 41 million people lost their lives to NCDs; that is equivalent to 71% of all deaths and 2.5 times as many deaths as other causes. Sadly, people in low- and middle-income countries account for more than three quarters (32million) of global NCD deaths primarily due to weak health systems.
Unfortunately, while one would think that NCDS should gain a lot of public health attention, the opposite seems to be the case. They are commonly less-noticed than the radical infectious disease outbreaks.
NCDs, also known as chronic diseases, are the result of a combination of genetic, physiological, environmental and behaviors factors.
The main types of NCDs are cardiovascular diseases (which include heart disease and stroke), cancers, chronic respiratory diseases (such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma) and diabetes.
Thankfully, during the UN General Assembly in September, a commitment was made to cut NCD deaths by one-third by 2030. However, such resolutions are easier made than implemented given a host of factors and vested interests. As Portuguese Minister of Health Adalberto Campos Fernandes rightly said at the event, "It is not hard to understand that the business of sickness is much more profitable than the business of health. And unfortunately, often, economic interests oppose health."
Despite the odds, it is important to acknowledge that prevention, detection, treatment, and palliative care are key factors to address in the fight against NCDs.
To address these factors, poverty; which is directly linked to poor health outcomes, has to be given paramount attention. Also, universal health coverage has to be improved, and cover for NCDs while leveraging on other sectors to reduce risks associated with them.
For the average individual, it's worth mentioning that modifiable behaviors, such as tobacco use, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet, and excessive alcohol intake, all increase the risk of NCDs. These modifiable risk factors account for at least 16.2 million NCD related deaths.
These factors or behaviors are termed modifiable because it is within our capacity to control these behaviors by ceasing tobacco use, engaging in regular physical activity, eating healthy, and controlling alcohol intake.
Abodunrin abiodun	on January 17, 2019 at 8:23 pm
I'm profoundly enlightened with this informative post. You're fulfilling one of the sdg 17 development goals . Kudos !!
