English / Italian / Dutch
Onze-Lieve-Vrouwziekenhuis Hospital, Aalst, Belgium
Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milano, Italy Laurea Specialistica in Medicina e Chirurgia
Hospital 2 de Julho, Salvador, BA, Brazil
European urology Read it here Long-term survival of patients aged 80 years or older treated with radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer.
European journal of surgical oncology : the journal of the European Society of Surgical Oncology and the British Association of Surgical Oncology Read it here Reply to Marc A. Bjurlin, Lee C. Zhao, and Michael D. Stifelman's Letter to the Editor Re: Nicolò Maria Buffi, Giovanni Lughezzani, Rodolfo Hurle, et al. Robot-assisted Surgery for Benign Ureteral Strictures: Experience and Outcomes from Four Tertiary Care Institutions. Eur Urol. In press. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2016.07.022.
American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Member American Urological Association (AUA) Member Young Academic Urologist (YAU) - Robotic Section Member
Best poster EAU Annual Meeting, Madrid, Spain
Outstanding Poster Presentation AUA Annual meeting, Orlando, FL.
Golden Communication S.U.N. prize S.U.N Annual meeting, Bari, Italy
Get updated Receive the latest news from Dr. Alessandro Larcher, MD
Work Experience Clinical Fellow Department of Urology
Research Fellow Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit
University of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, QC, Canada
Intern Department of Urology,
San Raffaele Turro, Milano, Italy
Urological Research Institute, San Raffaele, Milano, Italy
Pubmed Perioperative and Oncologic Outcomes of Nephrectomy and Caval Thrombectomy Using Extracorporeal Circulation and Deep Hypothermic Circulatory Arrest for Renal Cell Carcinoma Invading the Supradiaphragmatic Inferior Vena Cava and/or Right Atrium.
European urology Read it here Mortality, morbidity and healthcare expenditures after local tumour ablation or partial nephrectomy for T1A kidney cancer.
European journal of surgical oncology : the journal of the European Society of Surgical Oncology and the British Association of Surgical Oncology Read it here Re: Brian I. Rini, Tanya B. Dorff, Paul Elson, et al. Active Surveillance in Metastatic Renal-cell Carcinoma: A Prospective, Phase 2 Trial. Lancet Oncol Lancet 2016;17:1317-24: Active Surveillance in Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma: Option or Exception?
European urology Read it here Use of adjuvant chemotherapy in radical cystectomy patients aged >65 years: a population-based study from the surveillance epidemiology and end results (SEER)-medicare database.
Minerva urologica e nefrologica = The Italian journal of urology and nephrology Read it here When to Perform Preoperative Bone Scintigraphy for Kidney Cancer Staging: Indications for Preoperative Bone Scintigraphy.
Urology Read it here Prediction of Competing Mortality for Decision-making Between Surgery or Observation in Elderly Patients With T1 Kidney Cancer.
Urology Read it here Short-Form Charlson Comorbidity Index for Assessment of Perioperative Mortality After Radical Cystectomy.
Journal of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network : JNCCN Read it here 'Trifecta' outcomes of robot-assisted partial nephrectomy in solitary kidney: a Vattikuti Collective Quality Initiative (VCQI) database analysis.
BJU international Read it here Survival Outcomes in Octogenarian and Nonagenarian Patients Treated with First-line Androgen Deprivation Therapy for Organ-confined Prostate Cancer.
European urology focus Read it here Correlation Between Primary Hypospadias Repair and Subsequent Urethral Strictures in a Series of 408 Adult Patients.
European urology focus Read it here The Association of Uromodulin Genotype with Renal Cancer Aggressiveness.
European urology focus Read it here Lymph node dissection should not be dismissed in case of localized renal cell carcinoma in the presence of larger diseases.
Urologic oncology Read it here European temporal trends in the use of lymph node dissection in patients with renal cancer.
European journal of surgical oncology : the journal of the European Society of Surgical Oncology and the British Association of Surgical Oncology Read it here Differences in Patient Characteristics among Men Choosing Open or Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy in Contemporary Practice - Analysis of Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Database.
Urologia internationalis Read it here Oncologic Surveillance for Renal Cell Carcinoma: What Is Still Needed?
European urology Read it here Reply from Authors re: Steven C. Campbell, Wen Dong, Joe Zabell, Diego Aguilar Palacios. End-stage Renal Disease After Renal Surgery: Partial Nephrectomy Is Protective, but to What Degree and Consequence? Eur Urol 2016;70:562-3: Functional Outcomes After Renal Surgery: It's Time to Change Our Point of View.
European urology Read it here End-Stage Renal Disease After Renal Surgery in Patients with Normal Preoperative Kidney Function: Balancing Surgical Strategy and Individual Disorders at Baseline.
European urology Read it here Reply to Kazutaka Saito's Words of Wisdom re: Nephron-sparing Techniques Independently Decrease the Risk of Cardiovascular Events Relative to Radical Nephrectomy in Patients with a T1a-T1b Renal Mass and Normal Preoperative Renal Function. Eur Urol. 2016;69:538.
European urology Read it here When to perform preoperative chest computed tomography for renal cancer staging.
BJU international Read it here Elective Nephron Sparing Surgery Decreases Other Cause Mortality Relative to Radical Nephrectomy Only in Specific Subgroups of Patients with Renal Cell Carcinoma.
The Journal of urology Read it here Survival After Conservative Management Versus External Beam Radiation Therapy in Elderly Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer.
International journal of radiation oncology, biology, physics Read it here MicroRNA 193b-3p as a predictive biomarker of chronic kidney disease in patients undergoing radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma.
British journal of cancer Read it here Suboptimal use of pelvic lymph node dissection: Differences in guideline adherence between robot-assisted and open radical prostatectomy.
Canadian Urological Association journal = Journal de l'Association des urologues du Canada Read it here Against the Role of Inflammatory Markers in Renal Cell Carcinoma Prognosis: The Missing Link Between Evidence of Association and Clinical Applicability.
European urology focus Read it here Author Reply.
Professional Associations American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Member American Urological Association (AUA) Member Young Academic Urologist (YAU) - Robotic Section Member European Association of Urology (EAU) Member Italian Society of Urology Member
Dr. Jeffrey S. Ginsberg reviews content for Healthwise, a nonprofit organization with a mission to help people make better health decisions. He is a hematologist with training in clinical and laboratory aspects of thrombosis. His research interests include the development of novel antithrombotic agents; diagnosis and management of thrombosis during pregnancy; prevention and treatment of post-phlebitic syndrome; investigation of the clinical complications and antiphospholipid antibodies, and the diagnosis of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Dr. Ginsberg is a Professor in the Department of Medicine at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. Education and Training
Research Fellowship in Thrombosis: Canadian Heart Foundation, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, 1986–1988 Certifications
Cardiff BNA Local Group | The British Neuroscience Association
LGR position currently vacant
Please email office@bna.org.uk if you are interested in applying
Cardiff University has a diverse interdisciplinary group of over 100 neuroscientists and researchers working in a variety of areas of neuroscience and mental health research. In particular it has considerable expertise in stem cell research, brain imaging, brain development, learning and memory, vision sciences, neurodegeneration and neuropsychiatric research. The recently established Neuroscience and Mental Health Research Institute (NMH RI) facilitates the interdisciplinary activity of these researchers and acts as the local group representative for the British Neuroscience Association (BNA) in Cardiff.
Research currently takes place across two main sites, Cathays Campus (involving the Schools of Psychology, Biosciences, and Vision Sciences) and Heath Campus (involving the School of Medicine and the MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics). However, from July 2013, researchers from the Heath Campus will be moving to a brand new state-of-the-art £30M building on the Cathays Campus, dedicated to interdisciplinary research - the Hadyn Ellis Building (named in honour of eminent psychologist Professor Hadyn Ellis CBE DSc).
Over the last decade, numerous studies have shown that many Americans have low vitamin D levels and as a result, vitamin D supplement use has climbed in recent years. Vitamin D has been shown to boost bone health and it may play a role in preventing diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease and other illnesses. In light of the increased use of vitamin D supplements, Mayo Clinic researchers set out to learn more about the health of those with high vitamin D levels. They found that toxic levels are actually rare. Their study appears in the May issue of Mayo Clinic Proceedings.
Vitamin D levels are determined by a blood test called a serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D blood test. A normal level is 20-50 ng/mL, and deficiency is considered anything less than 20 ng/mL, according the Institute of Medicine (IOM).
The researchers analyzed data collected between 2002 and 2011 from patients in the Rochester Epidemiology Project, a National Institutes of Health-funded medical records pool that makes Olmsted County, Minn., the home of Mayo Clinic, one of the few places worldwide where scientists can study virtually an entire geographic population to identify health trends.
Of 20,308 measurements, 8 percent of the people who had their vitamin D measured had levels greater than 50 ng/mL, and less than 1 percent had levels over 100 ng/mL.
“We found that even in those with high levels of vitamin D over 50 ng/mL, there was not an increased risk of hypercalcemia, or elevated serum calcium, with increasing levels of vitamin D,” says study co-author Thomas D. Thacher, M.D., a family medicine expert at Mayo Clinic.
Hypercalcemia, or high blood calcium, can occur when there are very high levels of vitamin D in the blood. Too much calcium in the blood can cause weakness, lead to kidney stones, and interfere with the heart and brain, and even be life threatening.
The Mayo researchers also found that women over age 65 were at the highest risk of having vitamin D levels above 50 ng/mL. The result was not surprising because that’s a group that often takes vitamin D supplements, Dr. Thacher says.
Another notable outcome: The occurrence of high vitamin D levels over 50 ng/mL increased during the 10-year period of the study, from nine per 100,000 people at the start of the study up to 233 per 100,000 by the end.
Tropical Worm Disease Drug For Pre-schoolers Shown To Work In Africa Trial |
Home Health Pharmaceuticals Tropical worm disease drug for pre-schoolers shown to work in Africa trial
Tropical worm disease drug for pre-schoolers shown to work in Africa trial
FRANKFURT, Nov 16 (Reuters) – An adjusted version of established drug against schistosomiasis, a tropical parasitic worm disease, has been shown to work in pre-school children, likely offering a cure for millions, Germany's Merck KGaA (MRCG.DE) said.
In a late-stage trial in Cote d'Ivoire and Kenya, more than 90% of the participants, infected children aged from three months to six years, had no more parasite eggs in their stool or urine after up to three weeks of treatment, the drugmaker said, adding it would now seek regulatory approval.
The oral drug arpraziquantel, an experimental paediatric version of standard drug praziquantel, was developed by Astellas (4503.T) in Japan and further optimised by Merck.
It was also shown to have a favourable safety and tolerability, Merck added.
Merck, acting on behalf of the non-profit Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, will seek approval with the European Union's drug regulator under a programme for new drugs that addresses urgent needs in countries outside Europe.
The consortium confirmed the positive results in a separate statement and said that schistosomiasis is one of the most damaging parasitic diseases, affecting about 240 million people
Praziquantel is the standard treatment for school-aged children and adults, leaving an estimated 50 million toddlers and pre-schoolers without a treatment option.
The disease, also known as bilharzia, is caused by parasitic flatworms, spreads via freshwater snails in tropical and subtropical regions across the globe but mostly affects poor and rural communities in sub-Saharan Africa.
BRIC X-ray Systems Market Outlook to 2022
ID: 2088287
Up to $4496 off Until Nov 30th 2020
GlobalData's new report, "BRIC X-ray Systems Market Outlook to 2022", provides key market data on the BRIC X-ray Systems market. The report provides value, in millions of US dollars, volume (in units) and average prices (USD) within market segements - Analog X-ray Systems and Digital X-ray Systems.
- Market size and company share data for X-ray Systems market segements - Analog X-ray Systems and Digital X-ray Systems.
- Global corporate-level profiles of key companies operating within the BRIC X-ray Systems market.
X-Ray Imaging Market Research Report by Portability, by Technology, by End User, by Application - Global Forecast to 2025 - Cumulative Impact of COVID-19
X-Ray Imaging Market Research Report by Portability (Portable X-Ray Imaging and Stationary X-Ray Imaging), by Technology (Analog X-Ray Imaging and Digital X-Ray Imaging), by End User, by Application - ...
Z F Wu - Semantic Scholar
Z F Wu
Chueng-He Lu9
Hou-Chuan Lai9
Chun-Chang Yeh7
12Hai Yu
12Ye Ma
9Hou-Chuan Lai
Hou-Chuan Lai, Shun-Ming Chan, C Lu, C S Wong, C H Cherng, Z F Wu
Reducing anesthesia-controlled time (ACT) may improve operation room (OR) efficiency result from different anesthetic techniques. However, the information about the difference in ACT between… (More)
C Lu, Z F Wu, +4 authors Yi-Hsuan Huang
Z F Wu, Guan-Shiung Jian, +6 authors C Lu
BACKGROUND Anesthetic techniques can contribute to reduction of anesthesia-controlled time to improve operating room (OR) efficiency. However, little is known about the difference in… (More)
C. -J. Yeh, Z F Wu, +4 authors C C Chien
BACKGROUND The application of pulsed radiofrequency (PRF) close to the dorsal root ganglia, or peripheral nerves, has been demonstrated to be effective for the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain… (More)
Hemodynamic and biochemical changes in liver transplantation: A retrospective comparison of desflurane and total intravenous anesthesia by target-controlled infusion under auditory evoked potential…
C Lu, C C Yeh, +4 authors Z F Wu
OBJECTIVES Propofol-based total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) has been used successfully for liver transplantation (LT) in recent years. However, there are few discourses in the literature which… (More)
Hou-Chuan Lai, Hui-Wen Tai, Z F Wu
Wound dehiscence after general anesthesia in a child.
Yin-Tzu Liu, Ren-Chih Huang, Z F Wu
Relationship between anesthesia and postoperative endophthalmitis
Hou-Chuan Lai, Wei-Cheng Tseng, +4 authors Z F Wu
Previous study showed that patients under general anesthesia (GA) had nasopharyngeal secretions on the face at the end of ocular surgery, especially in propofol-based total intravenous anesthesia… (More)
T C Lin, F Lin, +7 authors Chien-Sung Tsai
BACKGROUND Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) causes release of matrix metalloproteinase- (MMP-) 9, contributing to pulmonary infiltration and dysfunction. The aims were to investigate MMP-9 production and… (More)
A patient with postpolio syndrome developed cauda equina syndrome after neuraxial anesthesia: A case report.
Wei-Cheng Tseng, Z F Wu, W J Liaw, S L Hwa, N D Hung
Combined spinal anesthesia and postoperative epidural analgesia is widely used in orthopedic surgery. Uncommon but serious neurologic complications of neuraxial anesthesia (NA) include direct trauma… (More)
Study: Environment Correlates to Diabetes | Health Data Management
Study: Environment Correlates to Diabetes
May 24 2010, 4:15pm EDT
A new study finds certain environmental factors, particularly the presence of a pesticide derivative or the chemical PCB, were strongly associated with the development of diabetes. Other factors, such as the nutrient beta-carotene, served a protective role in preventing the disease.
The study applied advanced analytics technology to data from publicly accessible databases, including the Centers for Disease Control's National Health and Nutrition system, and the Department of Agriculture's Food and Nutrient Database, among others.
Researchers examined 226 separate environmental factors, including nutrition and exposure to bacteria, viruses, allergens and toxins. They believe the study shows that computational approaches can reveal as much about environmental contributions to disease as about genetic factors. Consequently, their approach could be applied to the study of other conditions, such as obesity, hypertension and cardiovascular disease.
The study, "An Environment-Wide Association Study on Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus," is in the May 20 issue of PLoS One from the Public Library of Science, at plosone.org.
INT102255 - wiki-pain
INT102255
Neuronal excitability 33 98.28
medulla 61 97.72
Somatosensory cortex 18 97.16
anesthesia 87 96.96
Thalamus 40 95.88
Hippocampus 89 92.24
cerebral cortex 12 91.72
gABA 4 91.44
nMDA receptor 16 89.20
Sprains And Strains 474 100.00
Toxicity 34 99.92
Gliosis 22 99.90
Disease 450 99.80
Creutzfeldt Jakob Disease 1149 99.58
Targeted Disruption 504 99.20
Nociception 16 99.20
Alzheimer's Dementia 278 98.80
Scrapie 197 98.04
Adhesions 6 97.16
Regulation (regulation) of PrPC mRNA associated with stress
Regulation (unaltered) of PrP
In order to detect the effect on PrPSc levels, both silencing and overexpression of proteins were required during 6-day period.
Regulation (effect) of PrPSc
Regulation (unaltered) of PrPSc
Regulation (divert) of PrP
PrPSc levels in the brains of prion-inoculated MDR0/0 mice diminished upon the initiation of quinacrine treatment.
Regulation (inoculated) of PrPSc in brains
Biochemical analyses - PK digestion, glycosylation ratio, and electrophoresis mobility - of end products revealed the same strain features as the original seeds, suggesting that strains are dependent on the properties of PrPSc [19-21].
Regulation (dependent) of PrPSc associated with sprains and strains
Genetic or siRNA-mediated PrPC depletion in these studies delayed or even prevented disease, while still replicating PrPSc to levels seen in wild type mice expressing normal levels of PrPC.
Regulation (replicating) of PrPSc associated with disease
Although in our hands the levels of PrPSc remained unaltered in ScN2a cells transfected with Rab4 dominant-negative, both of these sets of data concur in showing that recycling from EEs to the PM is not involved in scrapie production.
Regulation (unaltered) of PrPSc associated with scrapie
Regulation (affect) of PrPSc
Regulation (changes) of PrP associated with neuropeptide and sprains and strains
Controls for PrPSc IHC included the use of mock-infected tissues and substituting a similar concentration of murine IgG isotype control for the anti-PrP 3F4 monoclonal antibody.
Regulation (Controls) of PrPSc
Regulation (immunoreactivity) of PrP in neurons
Intense PrPC immunoreactivity was seen in individual cells in the penumbra, while other neurons in this area showed no PrPC immunoreactivity.
Neg (no) Regulation (immunoreactivity) of PrPC in neurons
Here we investigated the putative involvement of the PrP(c) function on the nociceptive response using PrP(c) null (Prnp(0/0)) and wild-type (Prnp(+/+)) mice submitted to thermal and chemical models of nociception.
Spec (investigated) Regulation (involvement) of PrP associated with nociception
LSPCs targeting PrPC, perhaps in combination with Amyloid Precursor protein expression may prove to be a potent therapy for a disease that affects millions of people worldwide.
Regulation (targeting) of PrPC associated with alzheimer's dementia and disease
To determine the physiological role of PrPC, we examine the neurophysiological properties of hippocampal neurons isolated from PrP-null mice.
Spec (determine) Regulation (role) of PrPC in neurons
Regulation (immunoreactivity) of PrP in plaques associated with creutzfeldt jakob disease
PrP immunoreactivity in the form of diffuse and focal deposits was mainly localized in the somatosensory cortex, striatum, thalamus, hypothalamus, septum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata (Figure 6A–6E), and the PrPSc profile was marked by a protease-resistant fragment similar to that of cattle BSE with predominance of the high molecular mass glycoform (Figure 5C and 5F).
Regulation (immunoreactivity) of PrP in cortex associated with medulla, somatosensory cortex, creutzfeldt jakob disease and thalamus
Additionally, PrPSc levels were measured in MDR[60–90] mice at 7 other time-points (64, 69, 75, 78, 81, 84, and 88 dpi).
Regulation (measured) of PrPSc
Retrieved from "http://gnteam.cs.manchester.ac.uk//demos/wiki-pain/vhosts/wikipaints/mediawiki-1.19.1/index.php?title=INT102255&oldid=64846"
Our Research Respiratory Research Sleep Research Lung Cancer Research Our Research Groups Early Career Researchers PhD Opportunities
Volunteer
Welcome Current Studies FAQ Register for Research
Clinic
Welcome Our Services Our Experts Book an Appointment Fact Sheets Visiting our Clinic
News Resources Contact Call: +61 2 9114 0000
Donate
+1 4827 2294
The Woolcock Institute of Medical Research
News & Articles
New direction for lung cancer research
Wednesday, November 02, 2022
November is Lung Cancer Awareness Month, a time to reflect and address the urgent need for answers to this deadly cancer which claims more than 9,000 Australians every year, more than breast, ovarian and prostate cancer combined. This year, there is cause for hope with a recent study showing a potential link between a healthy gut microbiome and survival rates for patients undergoing chemotherapy.
It’s an important finding and one which the team at the Woolcock Centre for Lung Cancer Research is working every day to expand upon, hoping to break down barriers to using microbiome data at the clinic level and develop innovative new treatments that save lives.
Chemotherapy has an important role in lung cancer treatment, but a major problem is primary and acquired resistance – factors that 'fight against' cancer drugs. These can originate from the tumour itself or from the patient’s metabolic and immune system functions. In recent years, researchers have been working to gain an understanding of how imbalances in the gut microbiome can affect treatment. Gut microbiome imbalance can develop, for example, as a result of alcohol overuse or antibiotics.
Now, a study led by Cancer Institute NSW with expert input from researchers at the Woolcock has found an association between antibiotic use and impaired chemotherapy outcomes. The study analysed registry data from 25,936 cancer patients in NSW between 2013 and 2016. Patients were categorised based on the length of time between being prescribed antibiotics and starting systemic therapy (less than a month, 1-3 months, 3-6 months) and their outcomes compared with those who didn’t take antibiotics during the same six-month period. The antibiotic groups had shorter survival rates, and this was most significant for lung or breast cancer patients who were prescribed antibiotics up to three months prior to therapy.
It’s the first study to show such an adverse interaction between antibiotics and standard chemotherapy and a finding with far-reaching significance.
Further studies are needed to investigate how antibiotic exposure during chemotherapy affects patient survival and to find the causative link. The depletion of the healthy microbiome by antibiotics is considered a strong candidate as it is already known to impair the efficacy of some other types of cancer therapy, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, also known as immunotherapy.
The good news is that we know that metabolites from beneficial microbes can interact with the immune system and increase the efficacy of cancer drugs and there is hope that co-treatments that restore a healthy microbiome after antibiotic exposure can reverse the adverse effect and improve survival rates.
At the Woolcock Centre for Lung Cancer Research we are conducting important work addressing the lack of information on how to do microbiome testing, how it will benefit the patient and how to correct any imbalance. We are also looking at how the interpretation of these tests can be tailored for cancer patients and hope that our work will result in microbiome testing becoming a routine procedure for all cancer patients.
Find out more
About our Centre for Lung Cancer Research
Support our lung cancer research with a tax-deductible donation
Share online
Categories:
Sleep
Respiratory
Lung Cancer
Achievements
Covid
All News Articles
Donate
We are committed to understanding and eradicating these conditions. If you would like to support our research please click the donate button.
Donate Today
Volunteer
Register your interest as a research participant
Subscribe
Sign up with your email address to receive updates, including the latest medical findings and break-throughs in respiratory and sleep research.
Email Address (required)
First Name
Last Name
Privacy
The Woolcock Institute of Medical Research recognises the importance of your personal information and privacy. We will use your provided details only to contact you about information we believe will be of interest to you. Click here to read our full Privacy Policy. Please contact us on info@woolcock.org.au if you like to unsubscribe from the communication that you are receiving from us.
Register your interest as a research participant for research studies
We Need Volunteers for our research
Find out more here
Our Affiliations
Home About Research Volunteer Clinic News Resources Contact
+612 9114 0000
Contact us today
Staff IntranetCareersPolicies
Woolcock Institute of Medical Research is a not-for-profit charity. Donations of more than $2 are tax deductible. Copyright © 2022. ABN: 88 002 198 905
