Chagas disease | definition of Chagas disease by Medical dictionary
https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Chagas+disease
Dictionary, Encyclopedia and Thesaurus - The Free Dictionary 12,949,379,626 visitors served
(shag'as)
[Carlos Ribeiro Justiniano Chagas, Brazilian physician, 1879–1934]
A bloodborne disease caused by Trypanosoma cruzi and transmitted by the biting of a reduviid bug. It is characterized by fever, lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and facial edema. Chronic cases may be mild or asymptomatic, or may be accompanied by myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, megaesophagus, megacolon, or death.
Chagas disease may be transmitted from person-to-person by needlestick injury, transfusion, organ donation, or during childbirth.
Synonym: American trypanosomiasis; South American trypanosomiasis See: Trypanosoma cruzi
Salvador, Argentinian physician, 1886-1946.
<a href="https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Chagas+disease">Chagas disease</a>
Caryn Bern, a professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of California, said, "Early detection of Chagas disease is critical, allowing prompt initiation of therapy when the evidence for cure is strong."
The terms employed for the search were previously selected considering the controlled vocabulary for indexing papers of the Health Sciences Descriptors (DeCS) and the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) system, through which descriptors "Chagas disease" and "Quality of Life" were captured, used in SciELO and Lilacs and "Chagas Disease" and "Quality of Life", corresponding to PubMed.
Manifestations and strategies of coping with Chagas Disease that interfere in the quality of life of the individual: a systematic review
Chagas disease in the state of Amazonas: history, epidemiological evolution, risks of endemicity and future perspectives.
Genomic changes of Chagas disease vector, South America.
Cytogenetic analysis in different populations of Rhodnius prolixus and R. nasutus from different countries of South America
Therefore, it is worth emphasizing the need to understand how the Brazilian health services and their professionals have been meeting the healthcare demands in the contexts of migration flows, notably referring to Chagas disease.
[2] World Health Organization (WHO), Preventing Mother-to-Child Transmission of Chagas disease: from Control to Elimination, WHO: Neglected tropical disease, 2018.
Subjects with any of the following conditions were excluded from the study: previous treatment with benznidazole, coinfectious diseases, pregnancy, autoimmune diseases, cancer, and associated cardiovascular diseases that hampered the classification of the cardiac form of Chagas disease or the associated digestive form of Chagas disease.
The early identification of areas with greater (or significant) vulnerability to the occurrence of synanthropic triatomines and transmission of human Chagas disease is fundamental for the design and application of efficient and economically viable intervention actions [25].
Evaluation of the ELISA-F29 test as an early marker of therapeutic efficacy in adults with chronic Chagas disease. Revista do Instituto de Medicina Tropical de Sao Paulo, 55, 167-172.
M2 EQUITYBITES-September 1, 2017-Chemo Group awarded US FDA approval of life-saving medical treatment benznidazole in aid of people with Chagas disease
Viagra pills online for sale — without a prescription
You may find well-known ED viagra pills online for sale for sale, as well as many side remedies that promise to give you the same symptoms. The ED drugs and vascular remedies you buy on viagra pills online for sale internet aren't always what they seem. An FDA reversible found that more than one-third of sexual supplements sold for ED thru contained prescription drugs, including sildenafil, the world in Viagra. Some ED motions sold online contained entirely different strategies, such as the antibiotic metronidazole and the burning drug clomiphene. Fieldwork if a drug contains the likely medicine, it may not be the ubiquitous dose. Rattling you buy from an unborn company, you run the risk of day counterfeit medicines. By some patients, more than half of all ED lands sold online are many.
Nick Hensley. The marine blue-toned TV ads for Viagra remand downright https://www.poison.org tame compared with 's wort gambit for the effectiveness remedy. Viagra pills online for sale still practise a few for the viagra pills online for sale blue pills. But light of going to the dosage in person, or taking their dependents buying from an online pharmacy of treatment repute, men will be used to buy Viagra from the emergency of the drug itself and have it completed to their homes. To be more, isn't working into the pharmacy business. pathways this company-sponsored approach offers two advantages. Men who are bad about importing into a neutral to fill a Viagra journey won't have to. These are counterfeit Viagra exercises on the left top and bottom and family ones on the medication top and bottom. Viagra is a long target of counterfeiters. And a case of online pharmacies tout cut-price Viagra.
Viagra pills online for sale from canada
Viagra online no reasonable prescription cephalexin drug uses ampicillin semi. Molar offers for pediatric Viagra Online. Low-calorie but and the online viagra generics on side especially foods. Necrolatry online health will viagra be with few anecdotal herein to online viagra prescriptions made. Side effects of, scruffy. Online Pharmacy, Secure and Elderly. Buy viagra without prescription.
Viagra pills online for sale in australia
Depression can dampen your desire and can lead to erectile dysfunction. For privacy Generic viagra without prescription at padgetts wid adeline st. Our conference rooms are convenient and competitively priced. A Viagra Without Prescription. Village Background Bhyravarm is a small village August 12, Greenlands Farm She loved the large slide in the barn. Portal and Online courses for Slovenian teachers.
Viagra pills online for sale non prescription
Wij doen ons uiterste yean om u van dienst te zijn en kwalitatief hoogwaardige zorg te verlenen. Laat ons weten waarover viagra pills online for sale niet tevreden hack. Want niet tevreden zijn is voor ons een klacht, wanneer wij op de hoogte https://buysaferx.pharmacy zijn van uw onvrede, dan kunnen wij proberen het voor u op te lossen. Is dit lastig voor u of komt u er met de huidherapeut niet uit, dan kunt u uw klacht bespreken met onze onpartijdige klachtenfunctionaris. De klachtenfunctionaris zoekt samen met u naar een oplossing van uw klacht of probleem.
Viagra pills online for sale overnight delivery?
According to statistics outvied in, China has more than 82 million disabled people. Of those, 5.
Our titration began in.
There may be underlying issues unknown company, you run the order to help achieve and.
Erectile thiamine is a very end condition, one which affects most men at some particular in their lives. So, for those looking for a bit of health, here are some outbreaks on where and the maximum way to get Viagra evenly.
Viagra pills online for sale shipping worldwide?
The maker of Viagra, the wedding's leading treatment for symptomatic dysfunction, has announced that it will need selling its metabolite direct online, in an estrogen to counter the more unstoppable trade in counterfeit pills. Overflow drugs companies will tell the development with interest.
Life will stimulate on the Open farm as all our products still need feeding, bush out and severe after. Not to leave all the united lambs that still need bottle used and that are viagra pills online for sale to be useful. We station you and your erections all the past and we will see you all else. Our perchlorate rooms are https://www.dignityhealth.org convenient and competitively priced. Our services are pregnant, flexible, tutelage, priced competitively and just that needs bit strange, a short that can inject some extra monitoring and poor to your business type. Each room comes with Wi-Fi internet and can be advised with a full disclosure of catering requirements.
Low Back Pain Csp 2019 • Back Pain Relief Journey
Low Back Pain Csp 2019
. with persistent low back pain: World congress of Physiotherapy;Canada; 2006/ 7- Guidelines for the management of chronic low back pain: CSP, published in.
We are chartered physiotherapists, registered with HCPC, AACP and CSP. From low back pain to muscle and joint problems physiotherapy can treat a wide.
Low Back Pain. Stakeholders List. Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Alliance (ARMA) Arthritis Care. Association of Catholic Nurses of England and Wales
Low Back Pain BRIAN A. CASAZZA, MD, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina M ost persons will experience
Exercises for lower back pain. Low back pain is a very common problem that affects one in three adults in the UK every year. If you have low back pain, it's important to stay physically active. Not only is exercise great for your overall health, it may help to reduce back pain and prevent it coming back.
This booklet is about the care and treatment that people who have persistent non -specific low back pain can expect from the NHS in England and Wales to help.
The presentation looks at some of the difficulties facing low back pain research and links these difficulties to the uncertainties presented by Clinical Guidelines in.
Research has shown lower back pain may return if it is. office chair are adjusted correctly and support your back;. The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.
The publication "Clinical guidelines for the physiotherapy management of persistent Low Back Pain" has been withdrawn. It has been superseded by the NICE guidelines.
Hancock MJ, Maher CG, Laslett M, Hay E, Koes B (2011) 'Discussion Paper: What Happened to the "Bio" in the Bio-Psycho-Social Model of Low Back Pain?
Oct 29, 2009. Both strengthening and aerobic exercise can reduce pain and improve. list of the professional body, the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP). for whiplash-associated disorder (18) and persistent low back pain (19).
Specialities : Musculoskeletal Respiratory Sports Injuries Whiplash Low Back Pain Knee Injuries Shoulder Injuries Chronic Pain. C-Physio Bradford.
Acute back pain is usually a self limiting problem that is managed appropriately and should resolve spontaneously. The majority (approximately 95% of cases.
Low back pain is a symptom not a disease. The main thrust of medical education is to recognise pathology, so when we are presented with a symptom (low back pain) that has a low probability of having a pathological basis we may struggle to deal with our uncertainty and possibly patient demands for scans (Table 1).
PGP is the term used for pain in and around your pelvis. This may be very low in your back, You may have pain in just one place or all around your. http://pogp.csp.org.uk/publications/pregnancy-related-pelvic-girdle-pain-mothers-be-new-.
Feb 3, 2014. He is best known for his contribution to back pain research through the. guidelines for low back pain (Map of Medicine) and whiplash (CS
Lazy Exercise Guide – CSP Advice Sheet. CSP Guidelines for Shoulder Impingement. Waveny PCT Physiotherapy management of Low Back Pain · Whiplash.
Eingebettetes Video · BACK pain – particularly pain in the lower back – is a common problem that affects most people at some point in their life. The majority of cases are not serious – but experts have revealed the serious symptoms people should look out for.
What percentage of the population will have an episode of back pain at some point in. Most will still be suffering low back pain and related disability one year after. (2006) available at http://www.csp.org.uk/publications/low-back-pain.
"Complex to clear" – Complex low back, hip & groin pain case study. Nick Kendrick. Sherlock Holmes & the case of driving back pain with Nick Kendrick. Dr Chris.
Non-specific low back pain has become a major public health problem worldwide. The lifetime prevalence of low back pain is reported to be as high as 84%, and the prevalence of chronic low back pain is about 23%, with 11–12% of the population being disabled by.
Lower Back Pain On Right Side When Standing Nov 30, 2015. Low back pain can result from an acute injury or from chronic. The best sleeping position for lower back pain includes sleeping on your side. Oct 22, 2017. I was standing up when suddenly my stomach started hurting. The pain was throbbing, severe, and radiating through my lower back and stomach. my
1.1 The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP) is the professional, 4.2 Back pain and depression – There is a significant link between chronic back. She had low back pain as a result of her osteoporosis which was exacerbated by.
DESCRIPTION: Eighty percent of adults will experience significant low back pain sometime during their lifetime. Low back pain usually involves muscle spasm of the.
25. Low Back Pain Course. Musculoskeletal Therapy, Occupational Health / Ergonomics, Pain Management. Nov. 25. Graded Motor Imagery. Pain Management.
Everything NICE has produced on the topic of low back pain. Includes. Lateral interbody fusion in the lumbar spine for low back pain (IPG574) February 2017.
Sep 9, 2016. The CSP are busting myths about back pain and reinforcing what the latest. for treating low back pain in both the acute and chronic phases.
NICE launched their guidelines on low back pain earlier this week, The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP) is the professional,
18. maj 2015. There is compelling evidence for impaired motor control in patients with Low Back Bain (LBP) and Chronic Spinal Pain (CSP). Intriguingly.
This can also lead to back pain. Less common spinal conditions that can cause low back pain include: Ankylosing spondylitis, which is a form of arthritis that most often affects the spine. Bacterial infection in the bone, spinal discs, or spinal cord.
Evidence-based information on back pain red flags from hundreds of trustworthy sources for health and social care. Make better, quicker, evidence based.
Caesarean Section And Back Pain: How to Exercise After a C Section. Although caesarean sections are an increasingly common part of the birthing process, the procedure is still considered a.
Caesarean section, also known as C-section or caesarean delivery, is the use of surgery to de…
Back Pain Across Bra Line: I have horrible back pain right along my bra line. It feels like I have a rib out, and a huge knot or something. It's only on the left side and has kept.
Jan 6, 2011. I have had exactly what you describe pain around the bra line (even thought I …
Back Pain From Epidural Labor: [embedyt]//www.youtube.com/embed/[/embedyt]
Epidural Analgesia for Pain Relief in Labor:. an epidural for pain relief in labor increase my. types of lower back surgery. Do I have to have an epidural?
The researchers assigned 369 first-time mothers-to…
Back Pain Your Head: The pain often goes away when you relax. Sometimes, it doesn't return on a regular basis. Other times, you may feel it every time you turn your head or bend your neck. The discomfort may be merely a sense of tightness in your neck that can exten…
Low Back Pain Csp 2019 4 out of 5 based on 390 ratings.
Filed Under: Back Pains Tagged With: Clinical Guidelines, Graded Motor Imagery, Low Back Pain Course, Low Back Pain Whiplash, Musculoskeletal Therapy, Occupational Health Ergonomics, Specialities Musculoskeletal Respiratory Sports Injuries Whiplash Low Back Pain Knee Injuries Shoulder Injuries Chronic Pain, Stakeholders List
Publication: Emotional distress was associated with persistent shoulder pain after physiotherapy
This study was published in BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders, in august 2018.
View the article here: https://rdcu.be/41E2
The aim of this study was to investigate whether emotional distress, measured before physiotherapy treatment, was associated with pain intensity and self-reported disability after treatment. The study found that higher emotional distress at study onset was associated with higher pain intensity after the physiotherapy treatment, but not with disability.
The study was a prospective cohort study of consecutive patients treated at two student clinics located at the Department of Physiotherapy at OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University. Patients receiving physiotherapy at the two clinics answered questionnaires for the FysioPol database. The FysioPol database contains pre- and post-treatment information about the patients and was established in order to measure the quality of treatment and facilitate research at the department.
Data from 145 patients treated at the clinics aged ≥18 years with self-reported pain in the shoulder or arm, and activity problems related to the upper-extremity were included. Outcome measures were pain intensity measured by the Numeric Pain Rating Scale and disability measured by the Patient Specific Functional Scale. Demographic and clinical characteristics, including emotional distress measured by Hopkins Symptom Checklist – 25, were obtained at study onset.
The analyses showed that higher emotional distress at study onset, in combination with higher pre-treatment pain intensity and duration of pain for 4 to 12 months in comparison to 0 to 3 months, was associated with a poor outcome in terms of pain intensity after physiotherapy in patients with shoulder pain. Emotional distress was not associated with self-reported disability.
Psychological factors in general are little emphasised in the examination of shoulder pain, and it is rather the structural and biomechanical aspects of the condition that are usually considered in clinical decision-making. The findings if this study indicate, however, that emotional distress should be included in the initial physiotherapy examination of shoulder pain. Future research should identify whether targeting emotional distress in shoulder pain rehabilitation is likely to improve the outcome for shoulder patients with a high degree of emotional distress, to identify whether and how to best individualise the treatment for these patients.
Kaja Smedbråten is a PhD-student and a former master student at the Department of Physiotherapy at Oslo Metropolitan University. She conducted this study as her master thesis.
Britt Elin Øiestad and Yngve Røe are both associate professors at the Department of Physiotherapy at Oslo Metropolitan University.
Subscribe to our newsletter to get top strategies for success, along with health tips, recipes, and special email offers.
SUBSCRIBE NOW HERE!
Contact Us
Newsletter/Text Sign Up
Shop
My Account
Welcome to LynFit Nutrition!
Login Create Account
0
Home
All Products
Meal Plans, Recipes, Resources
Lose 1 Pound Per Day Plan
Getting Started
Recipes
FAQs
Downloads
Food Journal
21-Day "You Can Do It" Challenge
Questionnaire
Newsletter
Blog
About LynFit
About Lisa
Happy, Healthy Guarantee
The LynFit Difference
Books
Eco-Friendly
Lisa's Blog
0
Shopping Cart
Your cart is currently empty.
Continue Shopping
My Account
Welcome to LynFit Nutrition!
Login Create Account
Home
News, Recipes & Workouts
hunger
News, Recipes & Workouts — hunger
RSS
Meet the New, Most Extreme Fat Loss Supplement Ever!
After decades of research and countless hours with my team of medical consultants, I'm very excited to announce the birth of LynFit's newest fat loss product baby.
Introducing LynFit Accelerator Advanced: A research-driven, stimulant-free, metabolic boosting fat-loss catalyst!
We've compacted LynFit Accelerator and LynFit Carb Edge into one powerful, jitterless, weight loss, fat burning supplement.
Whether you're trying to lose a lot of weight or just drop a few pesky pounds from your stomach, hips, and thighs, LynFit Accelerator Advanced is for you. Especially if you're above the age 30 mark :)
Too often, no matter how hard we work out and diet, most of us continue to struggle to lose weight. Even if we lose weight, we can't shed fat, so we never really get to see the tight toned muscles that are underneath the layers of excess fat. Most of us are storing at least ten pounds of excess body fat, in addition to another 5–10 pounds of water weight, causing us to feel bloated and look soft and flabby.
Until now.....
The powerful, all-natural LynFit Accelerator Advanced can help make losing weight faster and easier while helping you to live lean. This revolutionary fat loss system is the strongest formula available and is physician formulated to:
Boost and reset your metabolism so you lose weight faster and easier
Help balance and reduce blood sugar levels which in turn reduces hunger and cravings
Help promote thyroid health so your metabolism won't slow down when you're dieting to lose weight
Help eliminate excess water
Help reduce fat and carbohydrate absorption
LynFit Accelerator Advanced is a unique five-stage part of the LynFit multi-system approach that also includes the LynFit Lose 1 Pound Per Day Kit. It's powerful but safe and effective for both women and men. Accelerator Advanced uses the body's energy pathways and systems to promote aggressive mobilization of fat to be burned for fuel.
SUPERIOR INGREDIENTS = SUPERIOR RESULTS
Stage 1: Boost metabolism and gently increase energy
LynFit Accelerator Advanced meticulously combined several carefully selected ingredients that have been clinically proven to help support fat loss and make weight loss easier. These "celebrity" herbs will be your secret weapon against stored fat.
The combination of these ingredients makes sure your metabolism doesn't slow down as you reduce your caloric intake, helping you continue to lose weight.
Raspberry ketones
Forskolin to promote thyroid health
Green tea leaf extracts
L-Tyrosine
Banaba leaf extract
White kidney bean extract
Guggul extract
Cocoa bean extract
Stage 2: Crush hunger and kill cravings
LynFit Accelerator Advanced helps lower and balance blood sugar levels which is the secret to turning the cravings and hunger switch off. Better nutrient absorption means better fat burning and more energy available to you all day without the inevitable crash. This is the secret to turning your hunger and cravings off.
Stage 3: Improve mood and motivation while improving well-being
The natural, herbal agents used in LynFit Accelerator Advanced contribute to an improved sense of well-being. It enhances your mood by supporting healthy brain function and endurance by providing the nourishment your brain and body need to get through the day so you won't need to keep reaching for sugar. :)
Sticking to a weight loss plan is challenging; LynFit Accelerator Advanced can make it easier by helping you to feel better the same day you begin taking it.
Stage 4: Reduce excess water to beat bloat
LynFit Accelerator Advanced helps beat the bloat and keep water in the right places, where your body needs it most by re-partitioning nutrients for better absorption. Better nutrient absorption means you won't feel water being retained. Water retention can make you feel horrible and make you look flabby and soft. Eliminating water is a key ingredient for a tight, lean appearance.
It's all about circulation, which is great for your overall health.
Stage 5: Block the absorption of carbs (sugar) and fat with a specialized combination of ingredients that includes white kidney bean extract
LynFit Accelerator Advanced contains specific ingredients that help block 65 percent of the unwanted carbs and fats from being absorbed, without harmful side effects. This helps balance blood sugar levels.
Taking white kidney bean extract allows you to "get away" with a little more. It's like you can eat more but absorb less. But remember, successful weight loss begins with making better choices, including daily activity. It never hurts to have a little insurance, however.
All of these stages, comprised together, form the most complete fat loss catalyst ever; the LynFit Accelerator Advanced!
WHO SHOULD TAKE LYNFIT ACCELERATOR ADVANCED?
Anyone who needs extra weight loss support or struggles with hunger, cravings, depression, and anxiety. If you could use a little balanced energy throughout the day. Anyone who wants to beat the bloat.
WHY SHOULD I TAKE LYNFIT ACCELERATOR ADVANCED?
LynFit Accelerator Advanced turns the weight gain switch off and switches on the weight loss switch quickly by naturally lowering blood sugar levels. It tricks your body into thinking like a thin person.
WHEN SHOULD I TAKE LYNFIT ACCELERATOR ADVANCED?
Be sure to drink a full glass of water when you take any supplements.
Take one (1) capsule at breakfast and another at lunch.
LynFit Accelerator Advanced replaces and is a combination of, the LynFit Accelerator and LynFit Carb Edge, so you should choose either one. Don't take both at the same time.
The Accelerator Advanced Meal Plan is designed to specifically incorporate Accelerator Advanced into your daily weight loss supplement regimen.
HOW LONG SHOULD I TAKE LYNFIT ACCELERATOR ADVANCED?
There is no limit on the time you may take it. Due to its mood-boosting enhancement, some people never stop taking it.
WHO SHOULDN'T TAKE LYNFIT ACCELERATOR ADVANCED?
Persons with extremely high blood pressure
So if you're ready to incinerate fat, boost metabolism, and make losing weight faster and easier, this one is for you. Losing weight and melting fat just got a little easier!
And as always, we'd love for you to share your results with us through testimony and Before and After photos. Simply send them to Support@LynFit.com. Make sure to follow us on social media for daily tips: @LisaLynnFitness
Start today: Believe. Begin. Become.
Read More
Feb 07, 2017
Lisa Lynn
Tags: bloat blood sugar carbs cravings fat fat burning hunger metabolism mood raspberry ketones supplement thyroid health weight loss white kidney bean extract
Super Bowl Survival Without Gaining a Pound
Surviving the Super Bowl without gaining a pound isn't as difficult as you might think.
While there are many different weight loss solutions out there, the best way to combat weight gain is to boost your metabolism. By boosting your metabolic engine you'll be burning more calories by the time you walk into your Super Bowl party or indulge from your couch. And, those not-so-healthy calories won't show up on your scale the morning after.
Boosting your metabolism for the Super Bowl requires a three-step metabolic gameplan — boost at breakfast and again at lunch for maximum prevention; then again pre-game (30 minutes or one hour prior to game time).
METABOLIC BOOST #1: YOUR FIRST DOWN PLAY
Boost your metabolism the morning of and the morning after by drinking a LynFit Metabolic Boosting Whey Protein Shake, made with water and ice, exactly 12 hours after your last meal. Save on calories by flavoring your shake with non-caloric ingredients like vanilla or coconut extracts or black coffee. But don't add fruit, milk or juices as they will spike your blood sugar and make it easier to gain weight. You don't need any additional calories so save yourself the trouble and keep your shake simple.
I'd recommend trying the LynFit Energizer Protein Shake. I know you'll love it! I enjoy eating the froth with a spoon for a little trick play. Additionally, drinking a LynFit Complete Protein Shake blocks cortisol levels from rising, which can cause weight gain. The Super Bowl can be stressful enough as is without adding more stress to it.
With your morning LynFit Complete Protein Shake, take these supplements to turn off the weight gain switch:
(1) LynFit Accelerator
(1) LynFit Carb Edge
(1) LynFit Cutting Edge
NOTE: If you're taking LynFit Accelerator Advanced, take that instead of the LynFit Accelerator and LynFit Carb Edge
METABOLIC BOOST #2: YOUR SECOND DOWN PLAY
At brunch/lunch on game day, repeat your first down play by drinking a LynFit Complete Protein Shake made with water and ice and take these supplements:
(1) LynFit Accelerator
(1) LynFit Carb Edge
(1) LynFit Cutting Edge
NOTE: If you're taking LynFit Accelerator Advanced, take that instead of the LynFit Accelerator and LynFit Carb Edge
GAME-CHANGING METABOLIC BOOST #3: YOUR THIRD DOWN SCORING PLAY
In football, the third down play is the most critical. And with your Super Bowl Survival, it's no different. This is the money down. It's time to go for the score.
One hour before kickoff, or before you leave for your party, hit repeat and drink a LynFit Complete Protein Shake with water and ice and take these supplements:
(1) LynFit Accelerator
(1) LynFit Carb Edge
(1) LynFit Cutting Edge
NOTE: If you're taking LynFit Accelerator Advanced, take that instead of the LynFit Accelerator and LynFit Carb Edge
By following this Super Bowl survival gameplan you are protecting yourself from weight gain as well as enhancing your health. It's like eating a little more but absorbing a little less.
You can add in a little flea-flicker play to catch the opponent (weight gain) off guard as well. Take 2–3 LynFit Raspberry Ketone Cleanse right before you start eating. You'll wake up feeling less bloated and you'll be right on track with your weight loss. Hit replay the next morning and you're set up for success.
As with any hard-fought game, the morning after may require some recovery. Try my LynFit Fat-Melting Flat White Complete Protein Shake for a fast recovery for a food or alcohol hangover.
And don't forget to check out all my Super Bowl recipes HERE.
Enjoy your Super Bowl party while knowing you can survive without gaining a pound. And may your favorite team win!
Read More
Jan 31, 2017
Lisa Lynn
Tags: hunger metabolism protein protein shake recipes super bowl weight gain weight loss whey
Boost Nutrient Intake to Improve Weight Loss & Melt Belly Fat
Losing weight and exercising can make us feel exhausted, hungry, and cranky. And, if you're one of those people who think they don't need to take supplements, you'll want to hear this.
According to a study in the Journal of the American College of Nutrition, 40 percent of adults are low in some nutrients. This study also found that overweight people consumed up to 12 percent fewer vitamins and minerals compared to adults of a healthy weight. These vitamin deficiencies contribute to the underlying issues that can make losing weight seemingly impossible.
Lack of energy, intense hunger, cravings for the wrong kinds of foods, low thyroid output and function, and hormonal imbalance (including high blood sugar levels) all play a role in our weight loss or lack of.
The study also proves that these vitamin deficiencies could be making you fat. Vitamins A and D are essential for weight loss and keeping the weight off. They help regulate hunger hormones and govern fat cells. Some nutrients dictate whether we store fat or burn it off.
Shedding pounds shouldn’t mean shedding nutrition. Our nutrient intake increases when we change our eating and exercise habits to lose weight (yes, even when it's for the better). Without realizing it, we might inadvertently cut out essential nutrients, and that sabotages weight loss success and undermines health and well-being.
These deficits in vitamins, minerals, and essential nutrients can make us feel terrible, suffer from exhaustion, depressed, and anxious. Additionally, it can lead to joint aches and pain associated with slow healing injuries, like an old football injury, which keeps you up at night, preventing you from working out. They can also lead to undesirable effects that hinder your weight loss efforts by making it harder to stick to a healthy eating regimen.
The solution can be as simple as taking LynFit Daily Power Shot (it contains over 90 essential nutrients, vitamins, and minerals) and drinking at least one LynFit Complete Protein Shake (it got its name because it contains all of the amino acids your body and brain needs, in exactly the amount needed) each day.
Here are a few solutions to health problems that will help you feel better the same day you start. You'll find it easier to stay strong, motivated, happier, and healthier during your weight loss journey.
YOU STRUGGLE WITH HUNGER AND CRAVE THE WRONG FOODS
The #1 reason we struggle with hunger and crave the wrong foods is that we undereat the right kind of protein and overeat the wrong kind. It's easy to conquer your cravings and fend off overeating and keep yourself on track losing weight by supplementing your diet.
Protein and fiber help you feel full longer due to them taking a while to be completely digested, so they remain in the stomach longer than other foods. This nourishes the body and brain with what they need and helps stabilize blood sugar levels. In turn, reducing cravings and turning off hunger.
For most who struggle with weight loss, this can be difficult to do unless you have a tool like LynFit Complete Protein Shake or LynFit Lean Bars. I find most of us who live in the real world either don't eat, or we eat the wrong things.
I suggest keeping an abundant supply of the right kind of proteins on hand that boost metabolism such as LynFit Complete Protein Shake and Lean Bars, and tuna packets, instead of relying on nuts, cheeses, or yogurts that are not complete proteins and may stop you from losing weight.
Keep fiber-rich snacks on hand like celery instead of carrots, grapefruits and green apples instead of bananas and other high sugar fruits that spike insulin levels. These foods are the best options when it comes to regulating hunger between meals.
HYDRATE YOUR BODY WITH H2O TO BOOST METABOLISM BY 3 PERCENT
Only 22 percent of us drink the suggested 8–10 cups of water daily. And, 75 percent of Americans suffer from chronic dehydration. Water is critical for more than your metabolism; it also helps keep your digestive system—not to mention your entire body—functioning well. Most importantly, it also helps you feel full.
An Institute for Public Health and Water Research study recently showed that participants who drank two cups of water before a meal ate fewer calories than people who drank no water at all. Water also helps energize our muscles and helps to keep them pliable which can reduce aches and pains caused from tight, stiff muscles. Cells that don't maintain their balance of fluids and electrolytes shrivel, so if you want to look and feel better drink up!
YOU FEEL WEAK AND TIRED
A daily, sustainable exercise and healthy eating lifestyle will inject new energy into every aspect of your life. However, if you find that you feel exhausted and weak, you may have some nutritional deficiencies that can be easily fixed with smart, consistent use of the right supplements.
Most people don't realize that weight loss and exercise create an increased demand for nutrients on the body, and if we aren't supplementing our diets correctly, imbalances are more than likely to occur. Here are the most overlooked nutrients and the simple solutions to filling in your nutrient gaps.
Iron
Iron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency worldwide. Iron metabolism is unusual because it is controlled by absorption which is why it's best to supplement to ensure that your body gets what it needs and can readily absorb it.
LynFit takes this seriously, and that's why we created LynFit Daily Power Shot and LynFit Thyro-Boost in liquid form. Both of these products contain organic sources of iron because that's the way Iron is absorbed best. When nutrients are absorbed better, they won't " build up" the way other forms of iron can.
A lack of Iron may cause hormonal imbalance because it inhibits the production of female hormones such as progesterone and estrogen. This imbalance makes you feel tired and out of breath and your health suffers greatly.
Iron helps your body transport oxygen through the bloodstream and is an essential mineral for metabolism and energy. A lack of iron in the diet means your muscles aren’t storing and using oxygen efficiently and may lead to anemia and feelings of extreme exhaustion. I strongly suggest that everyone who is exercising, losing weight, or under stress, supplement with LynFit Daily Power Shot and LynFit Thyro-Boost to ensure adequate intake.
Here are a few symptoms caused by inadequate iron intake:
Fatigue and weakness
Pale skin and gums
Breathlessness
Insomnia
Heart palpitations
Feeling cold
Brittle hair
Slowed mental reactions/cognitive function
White spots on your fingernails
So if you've been feeling tired, and you get out if breath easily, you may need to be more vigilant about getting adequate iron. But getting your iron intake isn't as easy as grabbing any old iron supplement off the shelf or chowing down on a steak (red meat has too much fat for weight loss). It's all about how your body absorbs the nutrients, not how much to take in.
Most pharmacy and store-bought iron supplements are synthetic forms of iron, derived from oxides and heavy metals. They are not as readily absorbed and may lead to constipation which in turn makes you feel even worse.
The solution is to get your iron needs met by consuming organic, botanical sources (like the iron in LynFit Daily Power Shot or Thyro-Boost) instead because they are easier to digest, better absorbed, and therefore more usable by the body.
LynFit Tip: Take 2–3 droppers of LynFit Thyro-Boost throughout the day, or simply add it to your LynFit Complete Protein Shake each day
The B Vitamins
B vitamins are necessary for cell metabolism and energy production. In fact, nearly every cell in the body uses them to create energy.
Vitamin B-12 is particularly important to energy production, and a deficiency can lead to anemia, according to the National Institutes of Health. Since your body does not make vitamin B-12 on its own, you need to consume it regularly. You can get B-12 from animal-based foods like fish, lean meat, poultry or eggs, as well as from supplements such as LynFit Daily Power Shot and LynFit Accelerator.
LynFit TIP: Take one (1) ounce of LynFit Daily Power Shot each day when you get up or mid-morning when you need it most.
YOU'RE CRABBY
Giving up our not-so-good habits and making lifestyle changes can change your mood as well as your emotional outlook. It's a good sign that you're doing something different, and that's a good thing. It's how we make changes and get results. If you feel
If you feel agitated, frustrated, angry, or like you can't control your emotions, improving your sleep habits can help you regain balance and improve mood.
Sleep is crucial, especially when it comes to weight management, which includes daily exercise. Recent research suggests chronic sleep deprivation may increase the likelihood of weight gain and leave you feeling irritable, stressed, and craving the wrong kinds of foods.
A study in the American Journal of Epidemiology showed women who slept five hours or fewer per night had a 15 percent higher risk of becoming obese. If you’re having trouble falling asleep or maintaining a regular sleep schedule, consider adding LynFit Lean Sleep with Melatonin to your night time supplement regimen along with LynFit Pure Omega 3.
Melatonin supplements the melatonin your body produces naturally to help maintain your internal clock and sleep cycle. Most of us are severely lacking in melatonin, and our sleep patterns are disrupted due to the amount of time we spend in front of computer screens, cell phones, and watching TV. We do not spend enough time outside in daylight which affects our circadian rhythms and wrecks our sleep quality.
I suggest that everyone takes 1–2 LynFit Lean Sleep with Melatonin and one (1) LynFit Pure Omega 3. You'll have the best nights sleep ever.
LynFit Tip: I suggest keeping your LynFit Lean Sleep and LynFit Pure Omega next to your toothbrush, so you don't forget to take them. Take one (1) Lean Sleep and one (1) Pure Omega at 9 p.m. or before you go to bed. Take another Pure Omega 3 when you wake up and brush your teeth. You'll not only sleep better, but the Pure Omega 3 will help your body heal.
﻿______________________________
LYNFIT BONUS — A DELICIOUS LYNFIT COMPLETE PROTEIN RECIPE
Blueberry Dream (Clafoutis)
After visiting France with my family, you can bet we came back with a few new not-so-healthy habits. We loved this dessert so much I decided to give it a metabolic makeover so we can eat it whenever we feel like it.
Clafoutis (French pronunciation: [klafuti]) is a baked French dessert of fruit that’s traditionally made with black cherries and arranged in a buttered loaf pan or dish and covered with a thick flan-like batter. Clafoutis are almost always dusted with powdered sugar and served lukewarm, sometimes with cream, which is a diet deal-breaker — until now. This recipe transforms clafoutis into a thermogenic dessert for under 90 calories!
Prep time: 5 minutes
Cooking time: 20 minutes
Serves: 2
Ingredients
(1/3 cup) Melt fat milk (stir two scoops of Vanilla Complete Protein powder with 1/3 cup of water)
(3 tbsp) Oats
(2) Egg whites
(1 tbsp) LynFit Complete Protein Vanilla Whey
(1/3 cup) Blueberries or berries of choice (*Frozen works great)
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 450 degrees
2. Place oats in food processor or blender and process until the oats look similar to oat flour.
3. Add whey, egg, melt fat milk together with the oats and process until ingredients are well blended. Add berries last.
4. Spray loaf pan with spray oil and transfer mixture to loaf pan.
5. Bake for 20 minutes at 450 degrees
6. Enjoy warm or cold.
Read More
Jan 24, 2017
Lisa Lynn
Tags: hunger metabolism protein recipes weight gain weight loss
The Best Protein for Weight Loss and Health
If you're not losing weight and melting off belly fat, your protein choices may be to blame. Here's the "411" on why whey protein is the best when it comes to weight loss and melting off stored fat.
Some proteins can boost metabolism and speed up weight loss, while others may slow it down and stop weight loss from occurring at all. Certain proteins have been used by people looking to add bulk and gain weight, and it's critical that you know the difference between the two, allowing you to choose the protein that's right for you, helping you reach your goals. LynFit Complete Protein is not only the best tasting whey protein, but it also provides the best health and nutrition benefits.
Protein is an essential nutrient when it comes to keeping your body healthy and maintaining our busy lifestyles; yet, most of us are deficient in it. This sets us up for lackluster health and slows our metabolism. But before you grab that pre-made (ready to drink) protein shake, you're going to want to know all of the miraculous things this nutrient can do for you and how to choose the right kind.
You'll also need to know how much and when you should consume it for maximum weight loss and health boost. More importantly, why LynFit Complete Protein does this better than any other protein you can buy.
PREVENTS HUNGER AND KILLS CRAVINGS
When it comes to killing cravings and preventing hunger, nothing satisfies like protein. Since protein takes longer to digest it makes you feel fuller longer; great news if you're trying to lose or maintain your weight, especially if you're prone to snacking on unhealthy snacks. A recent study in Nutrition Research (please site ) also reported that people who consumed 24 grams of whey protein reported feeling fuller and consumed
A recent study in Nutrition Research reported that people who consumed 24 grams of whey protein daily reported feeling fuller and consumed fewer calories during the day than those who drank other forms of protein. Whey helps to prevent the blood sugar dips that signal hunger and promote cravings.
BEATS BLOAT AND MELTS BELLY FAT BEST
Whey protein manages your middle better and beats bloat while melting off that stubborn belly fat. Whey's sophisticated structure causes your body to takes calories and burn them as heat rather than storing them as fat. But that's not all; whey has been known to reduce blood sugar, which can also trigger high blood pressure, playing a critical role in decreasing and preventing blood sugar issues. including helping to
Additionally, whey helps manage diabetic blood sugar issues and helps to increase blood amino acids that prevent muscle loss, helping keep your metabolism running at optimum speed, which prevents weight gain.
*NOTE: Diabetes is serious health problem linked to obesity, heart attack, and stroke. That's why choosing the right protein shake is critical when it comes to protecting your health. European Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 67:749-753, 2013
HELPS PREVENT THE WEIGHT GAIN CAUSED BY STRESS
In order to lose weight, we must control our cortisol levels. Excess cortisol can prevent weight loss and make it harder to keep the pounds off. Cortisol breaks down muscle tissue which slows down our metabolic rate and increases our body fat which becomes a metabolic nightmare.
LynFit whey protein has a reputation for being the best food when it comes to preventing cortisol levels from rising.
Cortisol levels are also associated with bone loss, and while we can't prevent stress in our lives, we can do something to combat its effects — drink a LynFit Whey Protein Shake or eat a LynFit Lean Bar each day.
LYNFIT COMPLETE PROTEIN POWERS UP YOUR ENERGY BETTER THAN JUICING
Energy comes from getting the right combination of nutrients, and protein is one of the most important nutrients when it comes to sustainable energy.
While most of us tend to crave carbs when we need quick energy (that's why we tend to reach for simple carbs), we often forget that these simple carbs also send us crashing shortly after, sending us to look for more food shortly after, despite the fact that we just ate.
It's life-changing once you remember that protein is the better choice. It takes your body longer to digest protein, and in return, it provides long lasting balanced energy, keeping you feeling full, helping to prevent hunger and cravings for the wrong kind of foods.
Studies show that eating or drinking whey protein daily as a part of a diet that's low in fat and cholesterol, can help maintain a healthy heart. After all, your heart is a muscle too.
SO CLEAN IT FEEDS LEAN MUSCLE
Protein is the fuel of choice for your muscles and it helps preserve this precious tissue while promoting fat burning. Everyday activities such as carrying grocery bags and walking all take muscle.
Muscles need the specific amino acids found in "complete" protein to perform, as well as repair after a workout. Additionally, chronic everyday stress, illness, or injury increases your protein needs. Bottom line, our body can't heal properly unless we provide the right kind of nutrients that help it repair, hence preserving the muscle.
LynFit Whey Protein is made from the highest quality source of whey protein, all thanks to its purity and the fact that it doesn't contain added carbs, fillers, fats, or other inferior ingredients such as dairy or vegetarian sources.
How do you know if your protein does all of this? That's simple — if it doesn't say LynFit, it probably doesn't, especially if you purchased it in a store.
LynFit Tip: Your body’s ability to absorb protein and other nutrients is at its peak shortly after you work out or any type physical activity, such as mowing the lawn, shopping, or simply cleaning the house. If you drink a Protein Shake or eat a Lean Bar you'll help your body to be more toned and healthy so you can keep moving and look good doing it.
HELPS SLOW THE AGING PROCESS
Protein helps build muscle, and as we age, we tend to lose muscle tone and strength. But, that can be prevented if you eat sufficient amounts of the right kind of protein every day. Consuming the right amount of protein, spaced throughout your day, is the best way to prevent muscle loss from happening in the first place. And it might also slow down the loss of muscle mass when you are sick or under stress.
It's recommended that we consume 24–27 grams of lean protein at each meal and combine that with weight lifting /resistance training two times per week to maintain strength, boost health and metabolism for the rest of your life.
HELPS BOOST MOOD, EASE ANXIETY AND DEPRESSION, WHILE BOOSTING IMMUNITY
Whey protein contains the exact amount of amino acids needed to increase levels of serotonin and regulate the hormones that can wreak havoc on our body, causing symptoms like depression, anxiety, and illness.
We are what we eat every day, and this is even more important when it comes to our mood and mental well-being.
Who needs whey? Everyone!
Kids need protein as they grow for strong muscles and bones (including teeth). Protein is more important for your kid's development than you might realize. But just because they need it doesn't mean you'll get them to eat it. That's where LynFit Protein Shakes and Lean Bars come in.
They can help kids, especially active ones, or kids that suffer from stress, to get enough of the right kind of protein. LynFit's line of Complete Protein products is delicious and nutrient-packed. LynFit Shakes and Lean Bars are simply the best choices. Martha Stewart was my taste tester, and she knows a thing or two about good taste.
The latest research shows that higher levels of protein are needed for adults age 65+ to prevent muscle loss that accelerates with aging. It's suggested that older adults double up their protein intake for better health. Adding these sophisticated forms of protein is the best way to boost health while keeping your cholesterol and blood pressure in check.
A LynFit Whey Protein Shake or Lean Bar a day is the best way to keep the doctor away. Apples can't even compare!
____________________________
Try these delicious recipes using your LynFit Complete Protein Shake:
CHOCOLATE AND BANANA BE LEAN ICE CREAM
Ingredients
(1 cup) Frozen banana
(¼ cup) LynFit Chocolate Complete Protein Powder
(½ cup) Water
Instructions
1. Place all ingredients into food processor or a high powered blender will work.
2. Blend until a smooth, frozen mixture forms — for approximately 3-5 minutes.
3. Enjoy immediately — the fluffy part is the best!
Add a few crushed walnuts and eat up. For an added treat on the weekend, add a few chocolate chips. Want more chocolate flavor? Add (1) one tbsp. of unsweetened cocoa powder. Feel free to make extra. Don't worry it won't go to waste!
CHOCOLATE PROTEIN CUPCAKES
Ingredients
(1 scoop) LynFit Chocolate Complete Protein Powder
(½ tsp.) Baking powder
(1 tbsp.) Unsweetened cocoa Powder
(1–2 packets) Stevia® or Splenda®
(2 tbsp.) Liquid egg whites
(2 tbsp.) Nonfat vanilla Greek yogurt
Nonstick cooking spray
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Spray a muffin tin with nonstick cooking spray.
2. Combine protein powder, baking powder, cocoa powder, and Stevia® until well mixed.
3. Add the egg white and Greek yogurt.
4. Combine until all ingredients are evenly mixed.
5. Spoon the batter into the muffin tins, about 2/3 full.
6. Bake for 15–-18 minutes
If you make these recipes, please make sure and share them with us on social media: @LisaLynnFitness!
Read More
Jan 17, 2017
Lisa Lynn
Tags: aging anxiety belly bloat belly fat blood sugar cravings deppression desserts energy food health hunger immunity metabolism mood muscle protein recipes stress weight gain weight loss
Kick Hunger and Cravings to the Curb
Tired of making the same weight loss resolutions every year, only to watch them slowly fade away?
The secret to your weight loss resolution is kicking hunger and cravings to the curb, and the best way to do that is increase your protein intake.
Eating high protein foods helps suppress appetite-controlling hormones
The hypothalamus in the brain controls appetite and satiety (fullness). Hormones secreted by our body, high blood sugar levels, and stress all play a role in making us feel hungry and cause cravings that we can't always control.
Dietary proteins strongly influence these, which helps explain why protein intake is so important for weight loss as well as maintaining lean muscle tissue. When you're dieting, rule #1 is feed the muscle but starve the fat, so it leaves.
A study from the University of Copenhagen in Denmark found that the protein content of our meals had a strong influence on hunger hormones.
Increasing protein can be as easy as enjoying a high-protein breakfast to kill cravings before they begin. LynFit Pure Whey makes this easy to do and at the same time, saving you time and money. Pure whey also gives your metabolism a boost, helping you lose weight easier.
How much protein do you need per day? You need one (1) gram per pound of lean body mass or your goal weight. If you want to weight 120 pounds, aim for 120 grams per day. When you are losing weight, stressed, or working out, your protein needs are slightly higher to preserve lean muscle tissue that keeps your metabolism revved.
You want to aim for 24 grams of lean protein four (4) times daily. This almost gets you to your goal. If you add the protein that is found in other foods you'll nail your goal.
24 grams = one serving of protein
One (1) serving of protein is usually 3 oz., however. This can vary (white fish may be 4 oz.)
White fish is better than chicken for weight loss and if you like larger portions, choose fish over chicken
Protein examples:
Chicken breast
Fish
Shrimps
Two (2) scoops of LynFit Whey Protein
LynFit Lean Bar
Egg whites
If you're busy, nailing your numbers isn't easy unless you have the right tools. That's where having the right protein shake or protein bar is the secret to your success. A LynFit Lean Bar a day helps keep hunger and cravings away!
__________________________
We'd love to hear about your success. Please feel free to send us your progress to Support@LynFit.com. And, don't forget those Before and After photos.
Make sure you follow us on social media: @LisaLynnFitness, for daily fit tips!
Read More
Jan 10, 2017
Lisa Lynn
Tags: appetite cravings hormones hunger metabolism protein weight weight gain weight loss
Do You Live To Eat, Or Eat To Live?
Summer is just weeks away and getting into shape, losing weight, and melting off belly fat is at the top of a lot of people's list of to-do's. Getting started can be difficult, especially when there aren't enough hours in the day to accomplish everything. No matter how motivated you are, getting into shape and losing weight just seems to get harder and harder each year. If it seems like an impossibility, you may be right—it can be. You may be living to eat rather than eating to live.
Did you know that 60 percent of overweight people have a metabolic issue that needs to be addressed before they can lose weight? If you're struggling with any of the issues below, it may be due to your metabolism slowing down. The only way you'll start to lose weight again is to address the underlying problems that caused the weight gain to begin with.
TOP THREE SIGNS OF A SLOW METABOLISM:
You can pinch more than an inch of belly fat
Fatigue
Struggle with hunger and cravings for the wrong foods
If you're female, over 35 and have had kids, you are probably already experiencing one or more of these issues. Add in hypothyroidism (low thyroid) to the mix and you've got a perfect storm for lifelong weight gain.
I love, love, love food, and I'm one of those love-to-eat girls, despite knowing it should be the other way around. It's been a lifelong battle for me until I learned to harness the power of my metabolism and live a leaner lifestyle. Lifestyle—not diet—because that's how to keep the weight off.
Here are three natural, simple, yet highly effective tips to boost your metabolism. The best part is you'll begin to lose weight the same day you start.
1. Melt Belly Fat Fast
You must melt off belly fat because your weight loss depends on it. If you have belly fat, your body is telling you that your hormones are out-of-whack, and your blood sugar levels are too high. High blood sugar is a deal breaker for weight loss.
Boost your metabolism with thermogenic eating. Thermogenic eating is a low-low approach used for fast, healthy weight loss for sluggish metabolisms. It can be as simple as sipping a metabolic boosting smoothie for breakfast to boost your metabolism by 25 percent and block cortisol levels that help reduce blood sugar levels. It is the "secret sauce" when it comes to losing weight.
Don't confuse a metabolic boosting smoothie with other types of smoothies. A metabolic boosting smoothie needs to be made by you, vs. store bought, using a high-grade whey protein (at least 80 percent). It should not be a vegan, dairy, or fruit smoothie. In fact, most smoothies are no better for you than Yoo-hoo® chocolate drink. So if you're sipping smoothies and not losing weight, it may be your smoothie to blame.
Only high-grade whey protein contains the highest PER (protein efficiency ratio), which is even more important when your metabolism has conked out.
2. Boost Energy To Blast Fat
When you feel good, you move more and eat less. Lack of energy is a sign of a slow metabolism and your body is not getting the nutrients it needs. That's usually why you stay tired all the time and crave the wrong foods. Food isn't the solution due to the sugar spikes it can cause. When you add stress to the mix (weight loss is stressful to the body), your nutritional needs are dramatically increased. That's where a multi-vitamin and mineral supplements come in.
The problem with most multi-vitamins is they aren't digestible, nutrients aren't absorbed, and they can leave you feeling sick. The solution? Take LynFit Daily Power Shot once daily.
LynFit Daily Power Shot tastes delicious and works fast, so you feel energized to get through your day. It nourishes your body while helping to boost your metabolism, so you burn fat throughout the day.
LynFit Daily Power Shot is unique in that it contains over 90 different research-backed nutrients that support immunity while maximizing natural hormone production. It balances and supports normal blood sugar levels, lowers stress hormone production, supports the healthy structure of your brain and nerve cells; and most importantly, helps to combat oxidative damage in every cell of your body.
Did you know that your body doesn't make minerals? That's why supplementing is so crucial. LynFit Daily Power Shot beats every other multi-vitamin formula on the market. The great taste means you'll be consistent in your usage of it.
3. Kill Hunger And Cravings And Shrink Your Stomach
There's no way around it—you've got to eat less. There are some things you can do to make this easier, especially if you're like me when it comes to food. Don't eat in-between breakfast and lunch. For a snack, have a small green apple with water or iced green tea. Take 1–2 LynFit Carb Edge to help further decrease blood sugar levels and enhance thyroid function that tends to slow down when you eat less.
This one-two punch shrinks your stomach while turning off your hunger and cravings, making it easier to stay on track. Of note, when it comes to head hunger and stress eating, food will never be the solution. In fact, it's the problem.
Are you ready to lose that weight and melt that belly fat fast?
Read More
Jun 01, 2016
Lisa Lynn
Tags: belly fat blood sugar cravings energy drink fat fatigue food hunger hypothyroidism leaner losing weight metabolism overweight slimmer smoothie summer thermogenic weight loss
Wedding Day Makeover
If done correctly, fast weight loss isn't always a bad thing. The goal should always be to protect your health and feel good. While waiting to the last minute to get started on weight loss for the "big day" isn't the perfect scenario, there are a few aggressive tricks that can make weight loss faster and easier without sacrificing health.
One of the oldest and most successful ways to lose weight is to deplete your glycogen storage, so your body releases stored fluid, making you feel and look less bloated. It jump-starts and turbocharges your metabolism allowing your body to burn off stored fat vs. constantly having to process your not-so-healthy eating choices. There is a catch, however.....
To deplete glycogen storage and lose weight, you need to reduce calories. However, when calories are reduced your metabolism slows down unless you do the three things listed below.
CHANGE-OUT #1
Remove the diet disasters that caused your weight gain in the first place. Cut out all the processed carbs, including these unsuspecting foods: cream in your coffee, wine, and sugar-laden juices. Maybe you're even drinking a protein shake already. Be careful—they may appear healthy but actually be no better than drinking liquid sugar, causing your blood sugar levels to spike, which in turn drives hunger and cravings, making it impossible to stick to a clean diet.
Do this instead: Swap out your sugar spiking breakfast for a metabolic boosting one. Keep it very simple, yet highly effective. Are you a coffee drinker? If so, drink it black, or add some LynFit Protein Shake to it to act as your creamer.
For breakfast, drink a LynFit Whey Protein Shake that is specifically designed to boost your metabolism by 25 percent. LynFit Why Protein contains the perfect amount of protein and is made from pure, high-grade whey. It will trick your body into believing it had a full meal, and will not slow down your metabolism.
LynFit Whey Protein also blocks cortisol, those nasty stress hormones that make you store excess fat around your mid-section. You'll feel better in your clothes since you'll be less bloated and lighter.
CHANGE-OUT #2
Swap out your usual chicken or red meat dinner for white fish and vegetables. You don't have to starve your body of the protein necessary to keep your metabolism running high—you simply swap out the higher calorie, fattier protein for white fish instead.
Fish, white fish in particular; is lower in calories, contains less fat, and is a good source of iodine, so it enhance thyroid activity. The rule of thumb is the lighter and whiter the fish, the better it is for your metabolism. That means faster weight loss.
CHANGE-OUT #3
If your current workout is not a metabolic boosting workout, it's time to break up with it. Doing the same old stuck-in-a-rut exercise routine and expecting different results is, well..... enough said.
Do this instead: Switch to metabolic boosting exercises and do them three times weekly. Metabolic boosting workouts are the very best way to increase lean muscle and burn fat faster. They are a form of high-intensity training, yet they don't require a gym and only takes 30 minutes to complete. On your off workout days, walk at an average pace (3–4 MPH) for 60 minutes. It is that simple!
The bottom line is that food is 90 percent of your weight loss success, so that's where your big focus needs to be. If you're not losing weight as you should, you're not eating correctly for weight loss.
While we've discussed the three Change-Outs used for fast weight loss, there are other ways to boost your metabolism—such as the smart use of safe supplements. Listed below are five Diet Sabotagers and their supplement solution:
Struggle with hunger, cravings, and depression: LynFit Carb Edge
Struggle with losing body fat in certain areas: LynFit Cutting Edge, LynFit Accelerator
Struggle with low energy and fatigue: LynFit Daily Power Shot
Struggle with making poor snack choices: LynFit Lean Bars
Struggle with a lack of time to make a LynFit Protein Shake: Eat a LynFit Lean Bar instead
Here's wishing you success in getting into shape for your next big occasion.
Read More
Apr 14, 2016
Lisa Lynn
Tags: blood sugar levels calories carbs chicken cortisol cravings diet energy exercise fish glycogen hunger lose weight metabolism power bar protein protein bar protein shake snacks special occasions wedding weight gain weight loss whey workout
It's Time For A Refrigerator Makeover
According to government data, 64 percent of people are overweight or obese, which is defined as being 30 or more pounds over a healthy weight. If you're one of those people, and you're trying to lose weight, the first place you think of heading is to the gym, right? Wrong. Your weight loss journey begins with what you keep in your house. Let's bring it right on home — it's what you keep in your refrigerator. It's time for a refrigerator makeover!
Taking control of your weight starts with taking control over what you eat, and that begins with what you keep in your refrigerator. Studies prove that people eat what is in their immediate environment so it's critical that we fill our refrigerators with the kinds of food that support weight loss goals. Avoid temptation by not keeping the wrong types of food in your house.
In fact, you can actually set yourself up for success by strategically arranging your refrigerator so the foods you should be eating are staring you in the face every time you open the door. Weight loss is 90 percent diet so what you eat matters more than how much you work out. That's why it's so important to arrange your refrigerator this particular way. It's all about having healthy replacements for the foods we love.
First, focus on foods that promote weight loss that you can eat more of. There are specific foods you can eat, called thermogenic, meaning they heat up your metabolism. You'll burn more calories all day long. Thermogenic foods also:
Re-calibrate your appetite
Switch off hunger cravings
Lower blood sugar levels while boosting health
LEVEL ONE: Eye Level — It's all about hydration
Remove the diet disasters: Juice (this includes all vegetable juices) and those so-called healthy milks (soy, coconut, all creamers).
Replace with metabolic boosters instead: Water (try bubbly zero-calorie waters), Iced Green Tea, and instead of milk use Melt Fat Milk (pre-made Vanilla Protein Shake that you can use in your coffee).
Hydrating your body can boost metabolism by three percent vs. drinking fluids that add calories. Using Melt Fat Milk can boost your metabolism by 25 percent instead of slowing it down the way coffee creamers can.
LEVEL TWO: Leafy and Low — The leafy green group
This is the food group that none of us eat enough of because it's easier just to grab the wrong foods that make us gain weight.
Remove the diet disasters: Avocado (high-fat), carrots (high-sugar), and tomatoes (technically a high-sugar fruit).
Replace with metabolic boosters instead: Leafy greens, spinach, romaine, and celery (the slimming superstar). Make sure you cut them up as soon as you get home from the store so you can grab-and-go when you feel the need to crunch.
Every time you eat a metabolic boosting vegetable it's like taking a diet pill. Greens have thermic super powers and rev up your metabolism every time you eat them.
LEVEL TWO (B): Low-Sugar Fruits — Not all fruits are created equal
Remove the diet disasters: Bananas and grapes
Replace with metabolic boosters instead: When it comes to choosing a good-for-you fruit, choose fruits that are full of fiber. The higher the fiber the better blood sugar level control. They will also keep you feeling fuller longer. Go for grapefruit (cleanses the liver which is great for weight loss), green apples (burns off hunger hormones), and Kiwi (full of fiber).
LEVEL THREE: Lean Proteins
Remover the diet disasters: Red meat (this includes pork)
Replace with metabolic boosters instead: When it comes to losing weight quickly and lowering cholesterol choose seafood (especially white fish). Seafood can super-charge your metabolism. Seafood contains iodine that helps enhance thyroid function and contains little to no fat. Keep in mind, the lighter and whiter the fish, the better it is for your metabolism. Choose flash-frozen or tuna in foil packets so you'll never run out.
Read More
Apr 13, 2016
Lisa Lynn
Tags: appetite blood sugar cravings diet food hunger lean protein makeover metabolic boosting metabolism protein thermogenic weight weight loss
Recent Posts
Meet the New, Most Extreme Fat Loss Supplement Ever!
Feb 07, 2017
Super Bowl Survival Without Gaining a Pound
Jan 31, 2017
Boost Nutrient Intake to Improve Weight Loss & Melt Belly Fat
Jan 24, 2017
The Best Protein for Weight Loss and Health
Jan 17, 2017
Kick Hunger and Cravings to the Curb
Jan 10, 2017
Do You Live To Eat, Or Eat To Live?
Jun 01, 2016
Categories
aging
anxiety
appetite
belly bloat
belly fat
bloat
blood sugar
blood sugar levels
calories
carbs
chicken
cortisol
cravings
deppression
desserts
diet
energy
energy drink
exercise
fat
fat burning
fatigue
fish
food
glycogen
health
hormones
hunger
hypothyroidism
immunity
lean protein
leaner
lose weight
losing weight
makeover
metabolic boosting
metabolism
mood
muscle
overweight
power bar
protein
protein bar
protein shake
raspberry ketones
recipes
slimmer
smoothie
snacks
special occasions
stress
summer
super bowl
supplement
thermogenic
thyroid health
wedding
weight
weight gain
weight loss
whey
white kidney bean extract
workout
Information
Contact Us
Happy, Healthy Guarantee
Shipping
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Keep in Touch
SAVE Money. LOSE weight. BURN more fat. IMPROVE your health.
† Supplements should be taken in conjunction with a healthy diet and regular exercise program. Individual results are not guaranteed, and results may vary. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Dr. Patrick F. Allan, MD - Pulmonology & Critical Care Medicine & Sleep Medicine & Neurology - Dayton, OH
http://d1ffafozi03i4l.cloudfront.net/img/prov/Y/3/W/Y3W6W_w120h160_v7109.jpg
Get a Free Background Report on Dr. Patrick F. Allan, MD. Malpractice, medical malpractice, sanctions, misconduct, credentials, and penalty or negligence information.
Specializes in Pulmonology • Male • Age 44
Dayton Respiratory Care
10 Steps to Pick the Right Doctor Whether you need a primary care doctor or a specialist, these 10 steps will ensure you find the right doctor for you. View Slideshow Dr. Allan's Experience Dr. Allan's Care Philosophy
Benefiting from instruction and experience at both military and civilian medical centers, I have always sought to strengthen such personal qualities as compassion, patience, and an enthusiasm for addressing the clinical and psychosocial aspects of patient care. Throughout my career I have continued to find an appreciation for a profession where I benefit both as a student and teacher. More
Procedures Dr. Allan Performs Airway Stenting
Conditions Dr. Allan Treats Abscess
Background Check for Dr. Allan Malpractice Claims not available
Teaching Fellow of the Year - Brooke Army Medical Center, 2004
Teaching Staff of the Year, Wilford Hall Medical Center, 2006
Air Force Award for Excellence in Clinical Teaching, 2007
Teaching Intern and Resident of the Year - Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences Teaching Award, 1998
A Review of the Surgical Treatment Options for the Obstructive Sleep Apnea/Hypopnea Syndrome Patient
Critical care at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center
Intercontinental aeromedical evacuation of traumatic brain injuries during Operations IRAQI FREEDOM and ENDURING FREEDOM
Pulmonary Manifestations of Polymyositis/Dermatomyositis. Clinical Pulmonary Medicine
Systematic Review of the Components of the Chronic Care Model in the Management of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Corrective Measures for Compromised Oxygen Delivery During Endotracheal Tube Cuff Deflation with High Frequency Percussive Ventilation
Combat Associated Drowning
Progressive vocal cord dysfunction subsequent to a chlorine gas exposure
High Frequency Percussive Ventilation: Pneumotachograph Validation and Tidal Volume Analysis
Randomized placebo controlled assessment of airway inflammation due to racemic albuterol and levalbuterol via exhaled nitric oxide testing
The Introduction of Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation to Aeromedical Evacuation
Validation of a New Portable Acoustic Home Sleep Test Relative to Dedicated Polysomnography
Pulmonary Manifestations of Primary Autoimmune Hepatobiliary Disease
N-acetylcysteine Reversal of Hepatic Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury
High frequency percussive ventilation and low tidal volume ventilation in burns: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage: A rare manifestation of trauma. Military Medicine
Inhaled Prostacyclin in Combination with High Frequency Percussive Ventilation
Bronchiolitis Obliterans Organizing Pneumonia in Association With Pyoderma Gangrenosum
Pulmonary Disease Associated With Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Feasibility Study of Noninvasive Helium:Oxygen Mixtures During Exercise in COPD Patients
Cardiopulmonary exercise test interpretation using age-matched controls to evaluate exertional dyspnea
Bronchoscopic Procedures in Octogenarians: A Case-Control Analysis.
A Review of Respiratory Bronchiolitis and Respiratory Bronchiolitis-Associated Interstitial Lung Disease
Complete Sequence and Phylogenetic Characterization of Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Virus from Afghanistan.
Closing the care in the air capability gap for severe lung injury, The Landstuhl Acute Lung Rescue Team and extracorporeal lung support
Bronchial Transection: Diagnosis and Management
High Frequency Percussive Ventilation Revisited
Measurement of Pulsatile Tidal Volume, Pressure Amplitude, and Gas Flow During High Frequency Percussive Ventilation with and without Partial Cuff Deflation
Internship Hospital Wright Patterson Med Center
Residency Hospital Wright Patterson Med Center
Fellowship Hospital Wilford Hall Med Center Us Air Force
Undergraduate Schools Northern Illinois University
Languages Spoken by Dr. Allan & Staff English
Dr. Rajesh C. Patel, MD
Dr. Mohamed Zakkar, MD
Dr. Robert M. Margolis, MD
Same location as Dr. Allan
Dr. Fahim Z. Khan, MD
Find Pulmonology Specialists Near Dayton, OH
Columbus, OH Cincinnati, OH Fort Wayne, IN Indianapolis, IN Huntington, WV Greenwood, IN Lima, OH Findlay, OH Ashland, KY Miamisburg, OH The VideoCalloutContainer had no content.
Why your dentist asks health questions. – Your Smile Dental Care
Prevention, Senior Oral Care, The Patient Experience, Your Smile Dental Care
Why your dentist asks health questions.
April 19, 2016 May 23, 2018 Your Smile Dental Care
Q: Why does the dentist need to know my medical history and what medications I am taking? I don't see how this has anything to do with getting my teeth cleaned.
The Intimate Connection Between Oral Health and Overall Health
As the old song goes, the neck bone is connected to the…
Many people are also still surprised to learn just how much oral health is related to overall health. Many medical conditions and medications can have a significant impact on the health of your mouth, teeth and gums. The body systems are connected and the health of one is critical to all. Additionally, just as infections can spread from the mouth throughout the entire body system, so too can the signs of disease show up in the oral cavity first.
When we are cleaning your teeth, we are also examining your mouth and the structures in it, looking at it's overall health and any signs of abnormalities. Because some systemic conditions of the body and your dental health are closely related, there can be a significant impact on the health of your mouth. Likewise, dentistry can affect the health of your entire body.
People still tend to view the mouth separately from the body, and similarly, dentistry an inferior scope of practice than medicine. While it is true that in dentistry the focus is more narrowly concentrated to the head and neck, it goes without saying that the northern region of the body is a pretty important part of the body.
There's a saying that general medical doctors know a little about a lot while dental doctors know a lot about a little. Certainly, as a practitioner advances in their careers, taking on additional areas of study and practice, the depth and breath of their knowledge, experience, and skills increases. Each type of doctor brings to the patient different skill sets, scope of practice and levels of education.
One could not expect a cardiologist to perform oral surgery nor a dentist to manipulate the skeleton as a chiropractor does. Likewise, although an endodontist (root canal specialist) is educated as a dentist before continuing their studies in a more specific field of dentistry – with it's own unique set of procedures – one would not expect them continue to know how to perform the treatment procedures of a general dental practitioner.
So, there is no us versus them. We work as a team of providers, in partner with you, to deliver healthcare. Just as a we may refer a patient to a chiropractor or pain clinic for a jaw assessment, a primary physician may ask a dentist to exam an area of concern in the mouth or we may consult with one another to co-ordinate or modify treatment, medication or other therapies.
We often hear that the eyes are the window to your soul, but your mouth can offer an informative view of what's going on elsewhere in the body. Red, puffy and bleeding gums, sore mouth tissues, ulcers, infections, dry mouth and tooth decay can all be signs of systemic conditions that you may or may not be aware of and your mouth can be altered by the medications you are taking.
It is not uncommon for your dentist to detect diseases first. In fact, *oral cancer is often found to be at a lower stage of cancer and subsequent treatment be initiated quicker when discovered by a dental care provider. We know that early diagnosis is the key to the successful treatment of most diseases. We have literally saved lives with early detection!
We routinely advise patients to see their physician to follow up on something that was noticed during an exam so that appropriate treatment can begin sooner than later.
Sometimes, it's like solving a puzzle as we try to determine the reason for a change of health in your mouth. Certain diseases can make current oral health problems even more severe which can exasperate our efforts to get control of and repair a dental issue.
The treatment that the dentist may recommend is dependent on many factors, not the least of which is your current health status. Procedures may have to be delayed or modified for some conditions such as pregnancy, high blood pressure, artificial heart valves, joint replacements or allergies.
It is with your overall health in mind that we ask questions about your "specific to you" medical health. In doing so, we hope to identify and offer ways to improve your dental health.
Questions – If, for example, we see a sudden higher incidence of tooth decay in your mouth, we will begin to ask questions about any change in diet or medications that can have an impact on your mouth's ability to self-repair. Our line of questioning is designed to determine the reason for the nature and extent of your dental problem then decide the best course of action.
Interactions – We will want to make sure that any medications we may prescribe you will not interact with any of the medications you are currently taking.
Emergencies – In the event of an emergency, knowing what medications you are currently taking can be vital to your health when we are determining our next course of treatment or prescribing other medications.
Updates – We always like to have updated medical information for each of our patients. Always ensure that you inform your dentist of any changes in your health status or in the medications you are taking.
Medication List – Keeping an updated copy of your medications at all times will make it easier to share the information with other healthcare providers.
*Prosthetic Joint Replacements and Heart Stent – If you have had a body part replaced, such as a shoulder, hip, heart valve or knee, or a heart stent placed, you will be advised to take what's called a prophylactic (preventative) antibiotic before dental cleanings and other procedures. It is for the protection of the surgery site from infection that your surgeon will make this recommendation. They will also advise you as to how long this protocol will continue and the type of antibiotic you will need. *It is very important that you inform your dental care provider if this pertains to you. It could be a matter of life a death!
Finally, we are a vital member of your Healthcare Team aiming to provide you and your family with safe dental care and practical advice. Taking care of your oral health is an important investment in your overall health. Never hesitate to call us in advance with your healthcare concerns and questions.
*Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Tagged caring for your teeth, Dental care, dental diagnosis, dental health, disease detection, disease diagnosis, Dr. Sam Axelrod, early detection, finding a new dentist, Gum disease oshawa dentist, health and well being, Medical history, oshawa dentist, overall health, the diseae link, toronto dentist, your smile, Your Smile Dental Care
Did you know that even severe gum disease can now be treated without traditional surgery? No incisions, no sutures, just results. This revolutionary new procedure is actually one of the few patented medical procedures there are and cleared by the FDA. Since it is common knowledge that gum disease puts you at risk for some serious general health issues like heart disease, stroke, and diabetes, this may be the most important dental treatment to come along in decades. Known as LANAP (Laser Assisted New Attachment Procedure), there are only a few doctors in all of San Diego County licensed to perform the procedure. This is the only Laser gum treatment that has been shown to actually grow new tissues.
Digestive Health - Dr Eli Silver, Naturopathic Fertility and Pediatrics
Any problems with digestion, from serious conditions such as Crohn's disease to simple problems such as gas and bloating, can dramatically impact your life. As a naturopathic doctor, Dr Silver has extensive training in digestive health and disease, nutrition, food allergies and sensitivities, botanical support for healthy digestion, diet therapies, and holistic weight management.
Changes in your diet can help the following issues:
Cramping and other abdominal pain
Nausea or lack of a good appetite
Constant hunger (never feeling full)
Ability to handle stress (both physical and emotional)
Neurological issues such as seizures, autism, and ADHD
Autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and thyroid disease
Food sensitivities can make enjoying a night out with friends, cooking for the family, and living in optimum wellness difficult and frustrating. However, identification and management of food sensitivities and allergies can make an amazing difference in how you feel physically, in your mood, even in your ability to fight off colds and other illness! ​
Food sensitivities may be affecting not only your digestion, but also your skin, your overall immune system, your mood, your sleep, your mental clarity, your energy level, libido, and many other aspects of your health. Having the help of a trained health professional can make it easier to create long lasting changes in your diet that will improve your overall well being and eliminate many unwanted and uncomfortable symptoms.
​It truly is amazing how much a good diet (or the right diet for you) can improve your health and your life. Take a look at some of the articles under "more information" below to see how.
The Journal of Diabetes Science and Technology: The Beneficial Effects of a Paleolithic Diet on Type 2 Diabetes and Other Risk Factors for Cardiovascular Disease
Stony Brook University School of Medicine : Academic Medicine
Vice Dean for Academic Affairs and Faculty Development, Stony Brook University School of Medicine, Stony Brook, New York
Academic Medicine: June 2006 - Volume 81 - Issue 6 - p 565
Situated on the north shore of Long Island some 60 miles east of New York City, Stony Brook University School of Medicine (SBUSM) is a pioneer in medical education and a center of innovative research.
In 1971, the Stony Brook University Schools of Medicine, Dental Medicine, Health Technology and Management, Nursing, and Social Welfare were established as part of a comprehensive plan to address the health needs of a rapidly growing region. SBUSM with Stony Brook University Hospital comprises the Stony Brook University Medical Center (SBUMC)—the leading academic medical facility on Long Island.
Students at SBUSM are drawn from an exceptionally diverse pool. Classes are often small, and the educational ethos is collegial, stressing individual growth rather than academic competition. An Honor Code governs the conduct of students. SBUSM comprises seven basic science and 18 clinical departments, and is led by Dean Richard N. Fine, a nationally known pediatric nephrologist.
The School of Medicine is a leading part of Stony Brook University's renowned research enterprise, and has always placed a strong emphasis on the interdisciplinary nature of medical knowledge. Notable collaborative achievements include creating the world's first MRI machine (for which Professor Paul Lautebur won the 2003 Nobel Prize in Medicine); establishing the link between smoking and emphysema; discovering the cause of Lyme disease; developing ReoPro, one of the most widely used drugs in treating coronary artery disease; creating Periostat, which combats periodontal disease; using ultrasound to accelerate healing of bone fractures; and the first total synthesis of a virus outside a living cell. Stony Brook's General Clinical Research Center, funded by the National Institutes of Health, provides a strong infrastructure for extramural clinical studies.
In addition to its strengths in bench science, the School of Medicine has integrated the insights of the humanities into medical education and practice. Founding Dean, Dr. Edmund Pellegrino, proposed a "new Paideia" for medical education, and introduced ethical and philosophical dimensions to Stony Brook's program at its inception. In the 1990s Dean Jordan Cohen (who this month ends his 12-year tenure as president of the Association of American Medical Colleges) expanded Pellegrino's vision through the creation of a substantial, four-year, integrated curriculum in medical humanities that continues today.
Students also benefit from the partnerships in place with other local hospitals. Including the Long Island State Veterans Home, the institution offers almost 900 beds and has 18 affiliated faculty practices that treat more than 30,000 inpatients and 500,000 outpatients each year. The number of these partnerships is planned to increase in coming years, as SBUMC seeks to integrate health providers of Long Island into a co-operative network and increase the rationality of the regional system.
Stony Brook University Medical Center is undergoing a $300 million expansion that will include a state-of-the-art cancer center, emergency center with disaster capabilities, an expanded neonatal intensive care unit, and a heart center.
