We have long believed that having a first-degree relative (such as a parent or sibling) with psychosis raises an individual's risk of a similar diagnosis. However, the role of genes in triggering...
We owe it to ourselves to refill the empty cup
‘During the pandemic we have, whether personally and/or professionally, experienced some degree of trauma; in school nursing we have also lost many cherished colleagues…’ .
Supporting pupils who have lost someone during the pandemic
‘No headlines, no awareness and once again children and young people's grief and experiences were quietly ignored.’ .
Taking long COVID seriously
News
‘It's harder than anyone understands and I feel like I'm drowning.’ There has been a steep rise in the time young carers spend looking after family members, yet more than half say they receive...
Long COVID: new guide to recognition, support, and recovery
‘We may not yet have the understanding we want or the written evidence policymakers seek, but these children do not have the time to wait for answers. This is their childhood. They only get one and...
Diabetes: new guidance supports wider access to glucose monitoring technology
‘Many people find finger-prick testing to be painful and time consuming and the introduction of technology for all people living with type 1 diabetes will reduce this considerably.’ .
Audit to strategy: development of a national children and young people lymphoedema service
The aim of this article is to review the results of the 2019 audit and reflect on how it strategically shaped future service delivery. Objectives identified for this audit included determining the...
Exploring the psychological impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on PICU consultants, advanced nurse practitioners and trainee doctors
To explore the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the wellbeing of clinicians working in PICU at the Royal Hospital for Children, Glasgow, with a focus on burnout, stress, work-related fatigue and...
Report on a scoping review of nursing interventions for young people's psychological wellbeing
‘The pandemic has been devastating for my daughter and for our family. She has anorexia and was discharged from an inpatient unit last year, but the disruption to her normal routines and socialising...
A clinical study of the benefits and effectiveness of a respiratory viral panel PCR study in children presenting with respiratory tract infections
The medical records of 100 children and young people aged under 18 years of age who had an RVP PCR test performed during December 2019 were reviewed using the Meditech health information system..
Supporting children and young people with long COVID in the classroom
School staff might see a reduced ability to find words or express themselves when feeling fatigued or anxious, or if they do not understand a task, as well as a reduced ability to understand and...
<
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
…
>
Showing 13 to 24 of 137 results
<
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
…
>
Why choose British Journal of Child Health?
British Journal of Child Health provides clinical resources for children’s health and wellbeing. Our goal is to provide you with the knowledge to meet the public health needs of young people.
Robotic Hair Transplantation Keynote Presentation by Dr. Bernstein
Dr. Bernstein Presenting 'Follicular Unit Extraction: Then and Now'
Dr. Bernstein was honored to deliver the keynote address at the ARTAS International Users Forum in San Francisco, California. Dr. Bernstein's presentation, "Follicular Unit Extraction: Then and Now," was a review of the evolution of surgical hair restoration from Follicular Unit Transplantation (FUT) through Follicular Unit Extraction (FUE) to the cutting edge technique of Robotic-FUE.
The presentation described the steps that resulted in the use, and growth in popularity, of the state-of-the-art ARTAS Robotic System for FUE. Dr. Bernstein pointed out that with the introduction of each procedure — FUT, FUE, and Robotic-FUE — there was initially a rocky reception with physicians. In each instance, however, the surgeons' concerns were overcome first by strong, patient interest and then by clinical studies that confirmed the procedures' usefulness.
Dr. Bernstein discussed how FUE procedures progressed from the use of hand-held instruments to the computer-assisted, image-guided ARTAS Robot. One of the initial hurdles of FUE procedures using hand-held devices was a high rate of follicular unit transection (cutting of the follicles). Restoration Robotics, Inc., the company that developed the ARTAS system, used a "sharp/blunt" punch technique that was introduced by Jim Harris in his 2004 publication on the SAFE System for FUE. The sharp/blunt technique, that was validated in 2006 by Dr. Bernstein's research publication, "New Instrumentation for Three-Step Follicular Unit Extraction," reduced transection of follicles when compared to older instrumentation. Dr. Bernstein then detailed modifications to the system that he proposed in order to improve the ARTAS robot. These improvements include: a smaller tip for the sharp/blunt punch, selection of larger over smaller follicular units, tensioner placement, 'feathering' the ends of the tensioner, and pre-making recipient sites before extracting the follicular unit grafts.
Looking to the future, Dr. Bernstein mapped out the further evolution of the Robotic FUE procedure and the tasks it will be required to perform. In future procedures, the physician will not only guide the robot on extracting follicular units, but also in creating recipient sites and, further down the road, placing grafts into the recipient sites. Graft placement will represent the most significant challenge to the robotic system as this step is the most sensitive to patient to patient variability. Once this last step is accomplished, a fully automated hair transplant should be possible, eliminating much of the human error in the mechanical aspects of the hair restoration process.
Tags: ARTAS Robot for FUE, Follicular Unit Extraction, Follicular Unit Extraction: Then and Now, Follicular Unit Transplant, FUT, Future of Hair Transplantation, Hair Follicle Transection, Hair Transplant History, Hair Transplant Innovations, Hair Transplant Instruments, New Instrumentation for Three-Step Follicular Unit Extraction, Pre-Making Recipient Sites, Restoration Robotics, Robotics in FUE, Robotics News, SAFE System for FUE
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2016 May 6;65(17):443-50. doi: 10.15585/mmwr.mm6517e1.
Susanna N Visser, Melissa L Danielson, Mark L Wolraich, Michael H Fox, Scott D Grosse, Linda A Valle, Joseph R Holbrook, Angelika H Claussen, Georgina Peacock
PMID: 27149047
DOI: 10.15585/mmwr.mm6517e1
Background: Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with adverse outcomes and elevated societal costs. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) 2011 guidelines recommend "behavior therapy" over medication as first-line treatment for children aged 4-5 years with ADHD; these recommendations are consistent with current guidelines from the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry for younger children. CDC analyzed claims data to assess national and state-level ADHD treatment patterns among young children.
Methods: CDC compared Medicaid and employer-sponsored insurance (ESI) claims for "psychological services" (the procedure code category that includes behavior therapy) and ADHD medication among children aged 2-5 years receiving clinical care for ADHD, using the MarketScan commercial database (2008-2014) and Medicaid (2008-2011) data. Among children with ESI, ADHD indicators were compared during periods preceding and following the 2011 AAP guidelines.
Results: In both Medicaid and ESI populations, the percentage of children aged 2-5 years receiving clinical care for ADHD increased over time; however, during 2008-2011, the percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries receiving clinical care was double that of ESI beneficiaries. Although state percentages varied, overall nationally no more than 55% of children with ADHD received psychological services annually, regardless of insurance type, whereas approximately three fourths received medication. Among children with ESI, the percentage receiving psychological services following release of the guidelines decreased significantly by 5%, from 44% in 2011 to 42% in 2014; the change in medication treatment rates (77% in 2011 compared with 76% in 2014) was not significant.
Conclusions and comments: Among insured children aged 2-5 years receiving clinical care for ADHD, medication treatment was more common than receipt of recommended first-line treatment with psychological services. Among children with ADHD who had ESI, receipt of psychological services did not increase after release of the 2011 guidelines. Scaling up evidence-based behavior therapy might lead to increased delivery of effective ADHD management without the side effects of ADHD medications.
Home > Military TBI Topics > Diagnosing & Treating Brain Injury > Hope for Biomarkers to Diagnose Brain Injuries	Email Share Hope for Biomarkers to Diagnose Brain Injuries
So where are we with regards to biomarker research and actually potentially getting a biomarker diagnostic platform, not only in theater but available to the civilian community. So where are we? Well, we're actually quite advanced at this point in time. I mean, this research has been going on. I like to believe that my group and the group at the University of Florida are really the first to conceive of this concept that-- just like the troponin enzyme test for heart failure, which is the standard of care diagnostic-- that we can do the same thing with brain injury. We went through several years of animal research to generate the type of data that we thought was going to be needed to convince the Army that we're on the right track and that we can make this happen. I'm not a molecular biologist, but I learned very quickly that we had some very significant challenges particularly on what they call the assays-- the test platforms to identify whether a molecule--a material that's in the brain-- has changed enough. The Army helped support a human studies trial in moderate and severe brain injuries, and we had over a course of 2-1/2 years, we completed a 200-patient study demonstrating very convincingly that there are certain biomarkers that will change. There are certain proteins that will change in the brain and only in the brain when the brain is hurt. Of course it is much easier to see that in a very severe TBI, but it gives you the--what's called proof of concept data. And with additional money from the Department of Defense and Congressional add-ons that came about because of the TBI problem, we were able to complete a preliminary study in 80-some concussion patients again with very promising results, and this is real--this is hard-core research. The severe data has been published in peer-review journals, and the data from the pivotal--no, from the preliminary study is being examined now by reviewers to be published in research journals. And as a result of that, the Army is funding a major pivotal trial to generate enough data on a specific device platform to then take that to the FDA for approval. One thing about the military-- military medicine--our regulations are that no therapy, no treatment, no diagnostic platform will go into theater and be introduced into our soldiers without FDA approval. So that's the yardstick that we must meet even though we're the military. People seem to think you can do whatever you want. No, not at all. Show transcript | Print transcript
Cbd Homogenize – CBD Info
One research study Trusted Source discovered that a 600mg dose of CBD helped people with social stress and anxiety offer a speech. Other early research studies finished with animals have actually revealed that CBD might assist alleviate stress and anxiety by:
CBD has remained in the news prior to, as a possible treatment for epilepsy. Research is still in its early days. Researchers are evaluating how much CBD is able to reduce the number of seizures in people with epilepsy, along with how safe it is. The American Epilepsy Society mentions that cannabidiol research uses expect seizure disorders, which research is currently being performed to much better comprehend safe usage.
A research study Relied on Source from 2016 worked with 214 individuals with epilepsy. The study individuals added oral dosages of 2 to 5mg of CBD each day to their existing anti-epilepsy medications. The research study's scientists kept track of the participants for 12 weeks, taping any unfavorable adverse effects and checking on the frequency of their seizures. In general, participants had 36.5 percent less seizures per month. However, serious adverse results were recorded in 12 percent of the individuals.
Alzheimer's disease several sclerosis (MS) Parkinson's disease stroke CBD oil might likewise lower the inflammation that can make neurodegenerative signs even worse. More research is needed to fully understand the impacts of CBD oil for neurodegenerative illness.
The results of CBD oil on your brain's receptors might also assist you handle pain. Studies have shown that marijuana can use some advantages when taken after chemotherapy treatments. Other pre-clinical research studies sponsored by the National Institutes of Health are also looking at the role of marijuana in eliminating signs brought on by:.
arthritis persistent pain MS discomfort muscle discomfort spinal cord injuries Nabiximols (Sativex), a multiple sclerosis drug made from a combination of TCH and CBD, is authorized in the UK and Canada to treat MS pain. Nevertheless, researchers think the CBD in the drug might be contributing more with its anti-inflammatory properties than by acting versus the discomfort. Clinical trials of CBD are necessary to determine whether or not it ought to be used for pain management.
The results of CBD on receptors in the immune system may help reduce overall swelling in the body. In turn, CBD oil might offer benefits for acne management. A human study released in the Journal of Scientific Examination found that the oil prevented activity in sebaceous glands. These glands are responsible for producing sebum, a natural oily substance that hydrates the skin. Excessive sebum, however, can cause acne.
Some research studies have investigated the role of CBD in preventing cancer cell development, but research is still in its early stages. The National Cancer Institute Trusted Source (NCI) says that CBD might help ease cancer symptoms and cancer treatment negative effects. Nevertheless, the NCI doesn't completely endorse any kind of marijuana as a cancer treatment. The action of CBD that's promising for cancer treatment is its ability to moderate inflammation and alter how cell recreate. CBD has the impact of decreasing the capability of some kinds of tumor cells to recreate.
CBD is drawn out from cannabis plants as either an oil or powder. These can be mixed into creams or gels. They can be put into capsules and taken orally, or rubbed on your skin. The several sclerosis drug nabiximols is sprayed as a liquid into your mouth. How CBD ought to be used depends largely on what it's being used for. Talk to your medical professional before using CBD oil. It hasn't been approved by the U.S. Fda (FDA) for any medical uses, and it can have side effects.
What is the Best Treatment for a Soft Tissue Lump Under Eye After Blepharoplasty? Doctor Answers, Tips
What is the Best Treatment for a Soft Tissue Lump Under Eye After Blepharoplasty?
U & L bleph – Healed quickly - stiches out in 1 week. Suddenly, 3 weeks after surgery, a soft tissue lump formed under 1 eye. I saw the doctor, and he said it looks like my body is overcorrecting healing, so it's pooling tissue and blood vessels in the area. He suggested massage and wait it out. He said he can inject it to dissolve the tissue if it doesn't resolve on its own. So far it hasn't resolved, and I am concerned about the injection as a treatment. Going to see my doc again next week.
It's common to get little areas of activity or fibrosis or focal swelling after any surgery, and the limited soft tissue coverage around the eyes makes bumps here well known. So your situation is not alarming, and most likely will resolve with just time. Massage is valuable, as well as the knowledge that your doc has a solution if nothing is improving by the third month. Sounds like you are well covered, and your doc remains invested in you too.
Follow progression closely
Keep an eye on it to see how it progresses. Often, abnormalities resolve on their own so injections may not be necessary.
Lump under eye after blepharoplasty
I would recommend following the area closely. After 3 weeks most significant swelling should be resolved but there can be a collection of fluid or blood remaining. I would not recommend any type injections yet. If the area does not correct with another month I would return to your surgeon to have the area reevaluated. Hope this information helps you.
This early after surgery you can encounter lumps like you mentioned. It sounds like you're following this closely with your surgeon so I would follow his advice as he knows you best and has examined the area. Performing a dilute steroid injection to help with the problem may be indicated, but it would require an examination to find this out.
Learn more: http://www.drlamperti.com/faial-plastic-surgery/blepharoplasty
Lump after blepharoplasty.
I would not inject anything into the lid for several MONTHS and wait and it should resolve without any treatment.
Honestly, you still are under the care and supervision of the plastic and cosmetic surgeon that did your Eyelid Surgery and should follow his/her instructions.
Your surgeons recommendations seem reasonable at this time. Massaging the area should help settle any scarring that is taking place. An injection of a steroid might also be indicated and seeing our surgeon next week is a good idea.
Jumping in too soon after surgery will only complicated and likely worsen things, so I would urge patience to allow your body to heal.
Lower blepharoplasty healing
Due to lack of pictures it is not possible to provide relevant recommendations or advice. Scar contraction or small pocket of fluid in the surgical field is part of normal healing process. You are still very fresh post-op and going through the healing process. At this point, conservative measures such as the ones your doctor has recommended are the standard approach. I would normally recommend conservative measures for at least the first 3 months post-operative and only then perform a surgical touch-up if there isn't a significant improvement.
Pharmacist Jobs in Manchester, Connecticut | PharmaceuticalCrossing.com
"pharmacist jobs in manchester ct"
TitleStaff Pharmacist Floater PTNo. of Positions2Position SummarySummary: Health is everything. At CVS Health, colleagues are committed to increasing access, lowering costs and improving quality of care. Millions of times a day, ..
Oncology Account Specialist - Hartford, CT Location US-CT-Hartford Requisition # 17-20334 # Positions 1 Experience (Years) 5 Category Sales - Outside Overview The Oncology Account Specialist (OAS .....
Core competencies • Must demonstrate a basic understanding of pharmaceutical industry practices, as well as standard medical practices in therapeutic area(s) of concentration and broad therapeutic .....
SCA Pharmaceuticals (SCA) is a nationally recognized leader that specializes in providing the highest quality sterile admixture services and prefilled oral syringes to hospital pharmacies nationwide..
CLINICAL PEDIATRIC PHARMACIST The Clinical Pharmacist ensures optimal drug therapy by designing therapy, monitoring and dispensing medications, and directing the work of supportive staff to maximize .....
Clean Room Associate- Days
Other duties may be assigned. · Provide a safe and healthy working environment according to SCA Pharmaceuticals policy. · Understand Current Good Manufacturing Practice for sanitation. · Work .....
Kroger and its subsidiaries operate an expanding ClickList offering a personalized, order online, pick up at the store service in addition to 2,253 pharmacies, 787 convenience stores, 324 fine .....
Clinical Pharmacist: Ambulatory Care in Clinic Position Summary: Within a local Internal Medicine clinic in western Massachusetts, the clinical pharmacist will be a part of our growing preventative .....
... Pharmacist, Pharmacy Database..
PharMerica operates more than 100 institutional pharmacies in 45 states and serves nursing facilities that care for approximately 350,000 patients. PharMerica Berlin is recruiting a Pharmacy .....
COVID-19 Disease: News and Advice on What Is Coronavirus? How Can I Protect Myself?
April 1, 2020 April 23, 2020 Web N Solution 0 Comments COVID-19, COVID-19 Treatment, COVID-19 Vaccine, protect becoming ill, What Is Coronavirus
Novel coronaviruses (COVID-19) was detected in Wuhan, China in 2019. Coronaviruses are a brand new that has not been previously detected in human boday.
Novel coronavirus is a larger family of viruses which is stat causes with illness starting from the common cold to severe diseases MERS & SARS.
According to the WHO, coronaviruses are a family of viruses which is started with causing illnesses ranging from the common cold and then more severe diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).
As per the WHO, signs of infection include:
Coronavirus Treatment/Vaccine
So far, there is no specific medicine/shot discovered to prevent or treat coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Medical team working hard to get the vaccine for COVID-19 and found some hope and testing process is ongoing and might require 12-18 month. For now, People may need supportive care to help them breathe.
By completed with investigating available preliminary data and active cases, the started time from onset to clinical recovery for mild cases is approximately took 2 weeks and for those patients with severe or critical disease it took around is 3-6 weeks.
Tips for Traveling During COVID-19 Crisis
It is really advisable to not traveling anywhere at this point, according to the WHO, the CDC, the federal government and state governments. By Avoiding travel, and even travel within the own city — is the best way to stop spreading the coronavirus COVID-19.
In currently situation, peoples are at higher risk for severe disease are older adults and people of any age with serious type of chronic medical conditions (e.g. heart disease, lung disease, or diabetes). CDC is also recommending that the travelers are at higher risk for COVID-19 and avoid all type of travel in the current situation.
The following resources are available to update yourself on the latest information and potential future impacts of coronavirus COVID-19:
Medline ® Abstract for Reference 144 of '进展期胰腺外分泌癌的化疗'
Cantore M, Rabbi C, Fiorentini G, Oliani C, Zamagni D, Iacono C, Mambrini A, Del Freo A, Manni A
Oncology. 2004;67(2):93.
OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated the clinical activity and toxicity of combination chemotherapy with irinotecan and oxaliplatin in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer that had progressed despite>or =1 course of a gemcitabine-containing regimen.
METHODS: Thirty patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer and Karnofsky performance status>or =70 received oxaliplatin 60 mg/m2 on days 1 + 15 and irinotecan 60 mg/m2 on days 1 + 8 + 15 every 4 weeks. Patients were assessed on the basis of clinical benefit response, changes in serum tumour marker CA 19-9, objective tumour response, time to progressive disease (TTP), and survival.
RESULTS: Six patients (20%) had clinical benefit response (median duration of 7.2 months). CA 19-9 levels were reduced>or =50% from baseline in 8 patients (26%) and remained stable in 8 patients. CT scans revealed that 3 patients (10%) had a partial response and 7 (23%) had stable disease. Two patients (7%) were down-staged and underwent surgery. Median TTP was 4.1 months, median survival was 5.9 months and the 1-year survival rate was 23.3%. The most serious adverse events were grade 3-4 leukopenia in 2 patients (6%), grade 3 neuropathy in 2 (6%) and grade 3 diarrhoea in 1 (3%).
CONCLUSION: Chemotherapy with irinotecan and oxaliplatin is an active and well-tolerated combination in patients with advanced pre-treated pancreatic cancer.
Imparting life-style coaching to youths want of hour: Guv | Patna Information | New World Times
PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan on Monday referred to as upon the medical establishments to impart life-style coaching to youths other than offering medical therapy to the ailing inhabitants of the state.
Addressing the sixth and seventh convocation of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) right here, the governor noticed that if the youthful technology was properly skilled in growing a correct life-style, the folks wouldn't face any severe medical downside in previous age. "The medical establishments ought to lay better emphasis on medical analysis and provision of higher healthcare in rural areas. Common camps for dialogue on well being issues ought to be organsied in villages," he mentioned.
Chauhan appreciated the standard of training being imparted at IGIMS and lauded its function in therapy of assorted ailments. "The work of liver and kidney transplant has already been began and the sufferers of most cancers and coronary heart ailments are additionally being handled in a greater manner. The attention hospital and eye financial institution of IGIMS are additionally doing commendable jobs," he mentioned.
The governor mentioned the variety of beds on the hospital has been elevated to three,000 to accommodate extra sufferers affected by completely different severe ailments. "The development of state most cancers institute has been accomplished and the work of regional eye institute can also be going to begin quickly," the governor mentioned. He expressed the hope that IGIMS together with different hospitals and first healthcare centres would collectively work for making the Covid vaccination programme successful.
Well being minister Mangal Pandey, IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas, principal secretary to governor Robert L Chongthu, a number of medical doctors and college students attended the convocation organised by means of videoconferencing.
