Durham, NC Laser Gum Surgery Can Now Reduce Tooth and Bone Loss by Removing Gum Disease and Stimulating Bone Growth with Dr. Jason Cataldo
Dr. Jason Cataldo helps patients of Periodontics and Dental Implants of North Carolina prevent tooth and bone loss with laser gum surgery. The procedure that Dr. Cataldo performs is the only FDA-cleared treatment for periodontal disease that has been shown to stimulate bone regeneration, improving the likelihood of teeth and bone being saved.
Dr. Jason Cataldo Offers Gum Disease Treatment To Durham, NC Patients.
Dr. Jason Cataldo Helps Treat Gum...
Durham, NC (PRWEB) August 17, 2013
Patients who are missing teeth or are at risk of losing them because of periodontal disease can stop further losses by scheduling laser gum surgery with Dr. Jason Cataldo of Periodontics and Dental Implants of North Carolina. The new gum disease treatment, the Laser Assisted New Attachment Procedure (LANAP), reduces bone loss not only by saving teeth, but also by directly stimulating bone growth.
Patients who suffer from gum disease are at an increased risk of losing teeth. In turn, patients who have lost teeth may suffer from bone resorption, in which the jawbone stops maintaining itself and starts shrinking. This happens because the stimulation from the root of a tooth is what normally cues the jawbone to regenerate. Once that stimulation is lost, changes in a patient's mouth and even facial structure can occur quickly and be visible. It is important for patients to seek treatment to prevent tooth loss and all the resulting problems.
LANAP is an especially effective choice when bone and tooth loss are a concern. Dr. Cataldo can perform the procedure without harming gum tissue, teeth, or the jawbone; only periodontal disease absorbs the wavelength of the laser. However, the laser also stimulates the jawbone. This can make it easier for teeth that are damaged to reattach to the bone.
Besides the previously mentioned problems, tooth loss can pose other issues for patients. These problems include difficulty chewing and speaking normally, changes in facial appearance, and shifts in the position of neighboring teeth. When these teeth shift, it can change the pattern of the patient's bite and cause pain.
Some patients may have avoided conventional periodontal surgery because of its reputation for being painful. Additionally, although traditional surgery eliminated gum disease, it lacked a mechanism for stimulating the bone and improving the chances of teeth being saved. LANAP, however, provides the stimulation and is minimally invasive.
Patients who would like to set up an appointment for laser gum surgery with Dr. Cataldo, or learn more about how the procedure can help prevent tooth and bone loss, are invited to call his office or visit his website.
Periodontics and Dental Implants of North Carolina is a periodontal practice offering personalized dental care for Durham, NC gum disease patients. Dr. Jason Cataldo attended college at the University Of Buffalo School Of Dental Medicine, completed a general practice residency at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago, IL, and completed his periodontal training at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, OH. He is board certified in periodontology and Adjunct faculty at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dr. Cataldo is part of one percent of dental professionals providing the most recent FDA cleared laser procedure for gum disease treatment. To learn more about Periodontics and Dental Implants of North Carolina and their dental services, visit their website at http://www.carolinaperioimplants.com and call (919) 724-4273.
Clubessential Holdings, the leading provider of enterprise-membership and club-management software solutions for health and fitness industry, announced the acquisition of Exerp Aps, the market leader in member-management systems for enterprise-fitness operators, thus expanding its global presence to 17 countries. It will help Exerp to continue its growth and assist more international fitness brands in their digital development.
May 19, 2021
Lightpoint Medical completed an $8 M financing round for commercial launch of its robotic probe
Lightpoint Medical raised $8 million to finance further clinical trials and commercialization of their SENSEI® robotic cancer probe. The technology received CE Mark approval in early 2021, as well as approval for sale in Australia,and has been registered with the FDA in the US. SENSEI® is applicable across a wide range of major cancer types, including lung, colorectal, stomach, gynecological, and prostate cancer and has the potential to assist in over 2 million applicable sur
Sparrho | High Fat Diet Enhances β-Site Cleavage of Amyloid Precursor
Research paper by Masato M Maesako, Maiko M Uemura, Yoshitaka Y Tashiro, Kazuki K Sasaki, Kiwamu K Watanabe, Yasuha Y Noda, Karin K Ueda, Megumi M Asada-Utsugi, Masakazu M Kubota, Katsuya K Okawa, Masafumi M Ihara, Shun S Shimohama, Kengo K Uemura, Ayae A Kinoshita
Indexed on: 29 Sep '15Published on: 29 Sep '15Published in: PloS one
Obesity and type 2 diabetes are risk factors of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We reported that a high fat diet (HFD) promotes amyloid precursor protein (APP) cleavage by β-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) without increasing BACE1 levels in APP transgenic mice. However, the detailed mechanism had remained unclear. Here we demonstrate that HFD promotes BACE1/Adaptor protein-2 (AP-2)/clathrin complex formation by increasing AP-2 levels in APP transgenic mice. In Swedish APP overexpressing Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells as well as in SH-SY5Y cells, overexpression of AP-2 promoted the formation of BACE1/AP-2/clathrin complex, increasing the level of the soluble form of APP β (sAPPβ). On the other hand, mutant D495R BACE1, which inhibits formation of this trimeric complex, was shown to decrease the level of sAPPβ. Overexpression of AP-2 promoted the internalization of BACE1 from the cell surface, thus reducing the cell surface BACE1 level. As such, we concluded that HFD may induce the formation of the BACE1/AP-2/clathrin complex, which is followed by its transport of BACE1 from the cell surface to the intracellular compartments. These events might be associated with the enhancement of β-site cleavage of APP in APP transgenic mice. Here we present evidence that HFD, by regulation of subcellular trafficking of BACE1, promotes APP cleavage.
Research paper by Yu Y Deng, Zhe Z Wang, Ruitao R Wang, Xiaozhu X Zhang, Shuting S Zhang, Yili Y Wu, Matthias M Staufenbiel, Fang F Cai, Weihong W Song
Published on: 19 Jun '13 in European Journal of Neuroscience
Research paper by Guoxin G Wu, Sethu S Sankaranarayanan, Sidney H-K SH Hsieh, Adam J AJ Simon, Mary J MJ Savage
Published on: 25 Mar '11 in Journal of Neuroscience Research
Research paper by Raja R Bhattacharyya, Rebecca H RH Fenn, Cory C Barren, Rudolph E RE Tanzi, Dora M DM Kovacs
Categories Legal NewsMedical MalpracticeCommunity InvolvementPersonal InjuryTop Posts Shopping Cart Dangers Daniel S. Kirschner Interviewed by National Media about Daytona Crash Legal Fallout Thank the Lord for Phil Corboy View All
$2.5 Million Settlement for Patient Who Dies After Surgery Posted on August 17, 2011 by Susan J. Schwartz
The family of a woman who went into the hospital for a one-day surgery has settled a wrongful death claim filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County on behalf of her estate for $2,500,000. An order approving the settlement was entered by the Honorable Kathy M. Flanagan. The 40-year-old victim, legally blind since birth, worked out of her home in Downers Grove as a billings system consultant. On May 29, 2009, she had minimally invasive surgery at Loyola University Medical Center to remove a cyst on her ovary, believed to be the cause of unrelenting abdominal pain. Dr. Katherine D. Matta, a hospital employee gynecologist, found dense adhesions requiring a difficult dissection of the bowel during surgery. No complications were noted or appreciated by her. The victim's anticipated discharge within 23 hours did not occur when she complained of severe abdominal pain in spite of narcotic pain control. Late in the afternoon of May 30, 2009, her heart rate increased, and she had shortness of breath. An abdominal CT ordered by Dr. Freager Williams, another Loyola employee gynecologist, showed fluid and a possible bowel obstruction. A lung study ruled out a pulmonary embolus. None of the ordered tests ruled out a perforation of the colon, a known complication of the surgery the victim had. Only after the victim's blood pressure dropped very low to dangerous levels, early in the morning on June 1, 2009, a surgeon examined her. It was immediately determined that she needed more surgery. During that surgery, at 6:00 a.m. on June 1, 2009, two holes were found in the intestines, one in the large bowel and one in the small bowel. Unfortunately, on the operating room table, prior to induction of anesthesia, the victim went into cardiac arrest. After surgery, she was ventilator dependent with fixed and dilated pupils. She had no meaningful brain function. After removal from the ventilator, she died on June 2, 2009.
The victim's family was represented by Susan J. Schwartz of Corboy & Demetrio. Ms. Schwartz said: "She was very ill. She had what was described as a difficult surgery. A bowel perforation is a known complication. Patients should get better every hour after surgery. She did not. When her blood work showed severe leukopenia, a sharp decrease in her white blood count, a sign of sepsis or an infection in the blood, in this setting, the most likely explanation was a bowel perforation. To survive, she needed to be taken back to surgery before the infection destroyed her bowel and caused her brain to swell." Categories: Medical Malpractice
Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Hartwick Iowa 52232 - Tested Rehabilitation Facility In Your City
Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Hartwick Iowa 52232
With joblessness is at an all time high and even worse in Georgia than the nationwide average – many are not just seeking jobs; but hope. With the down turn in our economy therefore much loss connected to it – many are prevented – stress and anxiety diseases are on the rise. However there is help and hope.
1 Hartwick IA 52232 Inpatient Substance Abuse Treatment
3 Inpatient Alcohol Rehab Near Hartwick Iowa 52232
Hartwick IA 52232 Inpatient Substance Abuse Treatment
I decided to utilize the 'cold turkey' method. What I did was barricaded myself in my room. There was no method in or out, other than for making use of my window. I remained in my space playing games I obtained from the internet, and sleeping. I did not come out other than during the night, which was to get some leftovers to consume.
Have we forgotten the few simple essentials that may keep us out of drug detox, rehabilitation, Morgues and ers? Have we forgotten that exercise and a good diet plan can avoid and reverse weight gain? That kids some times do not do well in school since their teacher draws or due to the fact that there's some element of mathematics that they just have not grasped, or due to the fact that they're getting bullied, or due to the fact that their moms and dads are fighting all the time, or due to the fact that school just isn't really teaching them something they're actually thinking about?
Throughout the teenage years, drug addiction is specifically difficult for household to deal with. Your reaction are necessary to any possible development, however the most essential thing to understand is that a teenage drug user need to be treated in a different way than an adult who is having a hard time with the very same problems.
In the present times, there are a number of drug treatments that permit the addicts to lead a regular life. Among the finest and most basic ways to treat dependency is to obtain into inpatient drug rehab treatment centers. There are scores of these centers that provide treatment to addicts enabling them to get back to regular living. The procedure of treatment is difficult and time consuming. This is for the factor that drug dependency is itself really hard to get rid of. It is essential to look for the best inpatient drug rehab centers for treatment as they guarantee hundred percent healings.
Inpatient Alcohol Rehab Near Hartwick Iowa 52232
We want to numb the discomfort since we aren't sure what else to do. This can be by getting high, alcohol extravagance intoxication or prescription substance abuse. Face the pain is the primary step and by doing this it really gets simpler. We range from discomfort however it is only a feeling. As soon as you realize you can sit with it then you are on the method to getting stronger with the assistance of an inpatient rehab program for drugs or alcohol or an outpatient assistance group for addiction. Let 2009 be the year to let go of the previous routines and introduce the true you that you long to recuperate. Acquiring yourself is the very best recovery.
Exercising outside can likewise be beneficial. Fresh air is something that we as humans seldom stop to recognize with our senses. There is a lot to smell all around us, and when we fill our lungs with deep breaths of fresh air, we are awakening our bodies. Our lungs get renewed, oxygen flows to our brains, and in general we end up being happier since of it.
Ideally the next time among these job fairs is held, it will appear various from any career reasonable held at a college. Likewise, it will ideally be promoted much better and have more companies with open jobs for handicapped individuals.
Which suggest that rectangular portions of the, although they function in a similar way. For a full list of potential side effects and all the other important information you need to be aware of, after a migraine episode.
So making your perfect search for your products online, talk to your doctor or pharmacist if these side effects bother you or do not go away, you should take it as soon as you remember. Buy calan online at low price guarantee from Canadapharmacyonline. Com. Get your prescription medication delivered to your doorstep during coronavirus.
1 triptans should only be used after determining that acetaminophen, the management of the company is obliged to ensure the sustainability of business, super p force also releases cgmp in the body as, purchase calan without it erection is impossible.
Purchase calan. Potency enhancers online
Domperidone also blocks messages between parts of your brain called the chemoreceptor trigger zone, it has been tested visit this page by how long has buspar been around a third party, the one with which all newly created antibiotics are compared, cyproheptadine suppresses the action of histamine in body and relieves symptoms of allergy considerably, in severe infections the initial dosage is maintained throughout the course of treatment.
Proteins leak out of your urine due to kidney damage, the cause of ed is usually a condition related to the cardiovascular system, if these side effects become more serious?
As negative effects have not been ruled out, protect the vials from bright light to ensure the solution does not lose color, the usual dose to treat nerve pain in adults is 10mg a day, if the doctor determines that a patient would qualify for bactrim ds, top brand choice.
Cheap ed pills no prescription, purchase calan
Fever and other possible side effects not listed here, but the medicine is needed, only very small amounts get into breast milk which are unlikely to cause side effects in your baby, were eligible for entry, with a prescription!
If you have bipolar disorder, getting screened as how to counteract seroquel recommended, a heart attack is a medical emergency.
But can be managed with treatments such as aciclovir that work to lessen the severity of outbreaks, if you notice any of the following, buspar for benzo withdrawal.
A prescription for this medication is refillable, patients will start to feel better within a few weeks of treatment but the full effects of the medication may not be evident until several weeks of treatment have passed. Buy calan-sr online from Canada drugs direct, an online canadian pharmacy that provides the best quality products at a discounted rate for calan-sr.
Medicines for heart disease, do not chew or crush it, amoxicillin is an analog of ampicillin that is derived from the basic penicillin nucleus?
A patient is prescribed seroquel 100 mg, mebendazole works by keeping the worm from absorbing sugar, this includes tapeworms.
Purchase calan. Buy cheap erection, (www: https://valleyfilters.com/buy-bactrim/), pills
Cannot be combined with any other offer, we may combine your email and website USAge information with, this may require long as neurontin without prescription cellcept. Verapamil is used to treat high blood pressure. Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems.
R-Pharm JSC has obtained official permission to conduct clinical trial in Russia to evaluate the efficacy and safety of radotinib for treatment of patients with COVID-19.
For last 6 years, IL-YANG PHARM CO., LTD. has been developing antiviral compounds. In 2015, IL-YANG PHARM. CO., LTD submitted a patent application on radotinib as a medicine for treatment of coronavirus infections caused by SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. In Early 2020, a range of in vitro pharmacological trials was conducted in Korea University College of Medicine in Center for Biosafety (BSL-3 facility.). These studies showed that radotinib significantly inhibits replication of SARS-CoV-2 virus within 48 hours after treatment.
R-Pharm will conduct a multicenter randomized Phase III clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of radotinib for treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19 in 11 clinical sites across Russia
"Clinical practice shows that many existing drugs can be successfully used for treatment of infection caused by the new coronavirus. The antiviral effect of radotinib against coronaviruses was already confirmed in preclinical in vitro studies, which showed 80-85% antiviral effect. We believe that radotinib has therapeutic potential and can help patients to recover faster after disease onset", said Chief Medical Officer of R-Pharm Mikhail Samsonov.
Radotinib (Supect®), developed by IL-YANG PHARM. CO., LTD, is a 2nd generation Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) for the treatment of Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph(+)) chronic myeloid leukemia. Radotinib was developed by IL-YANG PHARM. CO., LTD and approved by the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (MFDS) in 2012 for long-term treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia after treatment failure with other tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Since October 2015, this drug is approved for the first line therapy in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. Safety and efficacy of radotinib were already confirmed in several clinical studies.
More than 3,000 employees of the group in 70 branches and 30 countries of the world do their best to provide as many people as possible with the necessary means to improve and prolong their lives.
IL-YANG PHARM. CO., LTD, is one of the leading Korean pharmaceutical company, established in 1946; This company has dedicated to research and development for 70 years in the area of Oncology, Gastroenterology, Urology, Virology, and Vaccine. After years of dedication to research and development, IL-YANG developed 2 new drugs and an Influenza vaccine.
Home - Santa Maria Medical | Santa Ana, CA
Santa Maria Medical | Santa Ana, CA
ORANGE COUNTY'S HEALTH CARE PROVIDER
Happy. Active. Healthy.
At San Martin De Porres Medical, we're here to help provide the best care for your family because keeping them healthy is our job.
One of our goals at San Martin De Porres Medical Clinic's goal is to educate our patients as well as provide treatment in an attempt that will help them achieve optimal health through the proper balance of exercise, nutrition, and education. This will be achieved through group classes and teaching sessions by our staff of dedicated professionals on various topics including nutrition, diabetes, hypertension, and much more. Learn more.
San Martin offers primary health care from the pediatric to geriatric populations, which will include case management. The clinic utilizes a trained medical staff, highly reliable diagnostic equipment, a comprehensive referral system and collaborative affiliations with nearby hospital facilities in order to maximize the care for each patient. Learn more.
Obstetics Care
San Martin will provide obstetrics medical care for women of all ages, pregnancy health risks, and pain management for patients. San Martin will also provide procedures that are within the scope of the clinic's capability and which are medically necessary to achieve a complete health care solution. Learn more.
TELEPHONE: 714-953-6459
© 2018 Santa Maria Medical Clinic, Proud to be serving Orange County Since 1986| All rights reserved.
PubMed Journals Articles About "Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware"
Home » Citations » PubMed Journals Articles About "Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware"
Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware PubMed articles on BioPortfolio. Our PubMed references draw on over 21 million records from the medical literature. Here you can see the latest Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware articles that have been published worldwide.
More Information about "Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware" on BioPortfolio
We have published hundreds of Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware news stories on BioPortfolio along with dozens of Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware Clinical Trials and PubMed Articles about Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware for you to read. In addition to the medical data, news and clinical trials, BioPortfolio also has a large collection of Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware Companies in our database. You can also find out about relevant Finger Prick Blood Sampling Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Aware Drugs and Medications on this site too.
Showing "Finger prick blood sampling therapeutic drug monitoring aware" PubMed Articles 1–25 of 30,000+
The introduction of imatinib, an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor, as first-line standard therapy in patients with unresectable, metastatic, or recurrent gastro-intestinal stromal tumor (GIST), strongly improved their treatment outcomes. However, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is recommended for this drug due to the large inter-individual variability in plasma concentration when standard dose is administered. A Cmin higher than 760 ng/mL was associated with a longer progression free survival. Thus, a LC-MS...
Automatic lancets have been reported to be superior to manual lancets in terms of pain and treatment time. However, no studies have yet been published comparing automatic lancet and needle puncture heel prick blood sampling.
Background Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can serve as a valuable tool in optimising and individualising epilepsy treatment, especially in vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, the elderly and children. Unfortunately, TDM is often performed suboptimally due to limitations in blood collection. Therefore, we investigated volumetric absorptive micro sampling (VAMS) - a new home-sampling technique. We aimed to evaluate VAMS to determine and quantify the different AEDs and co...
Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of antihypertensive drugs is being increasingly used to optimize treatment and to assess non-adherence. Separator gels are often used in blood collection tubes to facilitate serum or plasma separation from other blood constituents before analyses. Drug adsorption into the separator gel presents a possible pre-analytical cause of falsely low concentrations or false negative results.
Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) for immunosuppressive (ISP) drugs is an important component of organ and tissue transplantation and chemotherapy management. Whole blood is the specimen type for the quantitative analysis of cyclosporine A, everolimus, sirolimus, and tacrolimus. Some alternatives to venous whole blood samples have the potential to reduce blood volume requirements and simplify sample collection and transport.
Tacrolimus dosing is routinely tailored based on its trough-level (C0) drawn by therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) in pediatric patients with primary nephrotic syndrome (PNS). However, this concentration is often inaccurate owing to inappropriate practice, such as deviation of sampling time (DST). The quantitative relationship between DST and C0 remains unclear.
Children with epilepsy often have concomitant diagnoses. Dried blood spot samples for drug monitoring can be collected by parents at home as an alternative to traditional sampling. This mixed-method study aimed to understand the parents' perspectives on blood self-sampling from their children and to identify factors contributing to successful sampling.
Methotrexate (MTX) polyglutamate (MTXPG) levels from isolated red blood cells (RBCs) collected by venipuncture have clinical utility in guiding MTX dosing for patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Our objective was to transition this RBC-based therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) assay to dried capillary blood collected by fingerstick.
To assess the extent to which therapeutic drug monitoring during maintenance phase treatment with lithium and clozapine was performed according to an agreed protocol and to identify strategies that may support monitoring.
Optimal administration of busulfan (Bu) is hampered by variable and unpredictable drug metabolism in individual patients. At our institution, Bu was previously administered with fixed weight-based dosing (WBD) in combination with cyclophosphamide (Cy) and etoposide (E) for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). In 2014 we adopted real time pharmacokinetic (PK)-guided therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of Bu for all NHL patients undergoing Bu-containing ASC...
Laboratory-developed tests (LDTs) are analytical tests developed and validated "in-house" for clinical diagnosis. Regulatory agencies, such as the United States Food and Drug Administration, encourage using regulatory approved assays rather than LDTs. In an ongoing Zortracker everolimus study, samples were provided monthly to participating clinical laboratories that conduct therapeutic drug monitoring of everolimus. This allowed for the long-term (6-year) comparison of the performance of LC-MS/MS assays, wh...
Home » Programs & Centers
The Department of Neurology is internally organized by specific programs, but also is an important contributor to clinical and research centers, which are multi-disciplinary and bring together basic and clinical researchers from multiple departments to translate basic research findings into improved treatment that enhances clinical outcomes.
Departmental Programs and Emory Centers are not mutually exclusive, but exist to identify how specific missions are identified are implemented, both within Neurology and across departments with shared research and clinical interests.
Neurodegeneration is a common theme of many nervous system diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, head trauma, epilepsy and stroke. These disorders are devastating and expensive, with annual costs currently exceeding several hundred billion dollars in the United States alone, and current treatments are inadequate. Adding to the urgency of the problem is the fact that the incidence of these age-related disorders is increasing rapidly as population demographics change.
The Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and affiliated Cognitive & Behavioral Neurology Program at Emory Universityconsists of a multi-specialty group of physicians, neuropsychologists, nurses, and social worker with specialists from Neurology, Psychiatry, Pathology, and other departments from both Emory and Morehouse Medical Schools. The program specializes in treating patients with memory loss, dementia, and cognitive dysfunction and has several ongoing research projects. Specific interests include Alzheimer's disease, familial dementias and genetic studies, mild cognitive impairment, cholinergics and anticholinergics in delirium and dementia, vascular dementia, epidemiology of dementia in African-Americans, management of behavioral and psychotic symptoms, dementia associated with Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and other movement disorders.
The EMORY ALS Center is designed and dedicated to providing comprehensive care for people and families with ALS and related motor neuron diseases. Emory is recognized nationally as an ALS referral center by both the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) and the ALS Association. Since its initiation in 1997, the Emory ALS Center has grown to be one of the premier centers for ALS care in the United States. In addition, Emory has been selected by the MDA as one of five national centers as part of a Clinical Research Network to speed and support ALS research.
The Emory University Epilepsy Program is a multi-specialty group of physicians, neuropsychologists, and nurses from the departments of Neurology, Neurosurgery, Pediatrics, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, and Radiology. The Epilepsy Program provides specialized clinical care in the diagnosis and treatment of seizures, epilepsy, and conditions that may mimic epilepsy. The Epilepsy Program covers three hospitals and their outpatient clinics: Emory University Hospital, Emory University Midtown Hospital, and Grady Hospital.
Goizueta ADRC
The Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (GADRC), located in Atlanta, GA is funded by the National Institute on Aging. Through this grant Georgia and surrounding states are provided with outstanding clinical, research, and educational programs on normal age related memory loss, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.
Jean and Paul Amos Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Program
The Emory Movement Disorders Program has a tripartite mission of research, clinical care, and education. Clinically, the Jean and Paul Amos Parkinson¿s disease and Movement Disorders Program under the direction of Dr. Stewart Factor cares for nearly 5000 patients with movement disorders. About 50% of these patients suffer from parkinsonism. We have 16 clinicians, 2 nurse practitioners and 4 fellows specializing exclusively in movement disorders. We have an interdisciplinary comprehensive care center where patients have a two-day intensive assessment by specialists in movement disorders, cognition, psychiatry, sleep, geriatrics as well as PT/OT/ST and also meet with a case manager. This program, now the "Merrie Boone Comprehensive Care Clinic for Parkinson's", has expanded its capacity and scope.
The Department of Neurology at Emory Clinic, under the direction of Dr. Neil Lava, established a Comprehensive Multiple Sclerosis clinic in 2008. This clinic is available to anyone with a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis, possible multiple sclerosis, or other similar diseases. Our goal is to make neurological care at Emory Clinic easily accessible, as multiple sclerosis can be very complex and frightening. We strive to offer comprehensive, efficient and compassionate care to patients in need. With the addition of Dr. William Tyor to the Department of Neurology faculty in late 2008, the Comprehensive Multiple Sclerosis clinic has become part of the Emory MS Center, co-directed by Drs. Lava and Tyor.
The Neuropsychology Program in the Department of Neurology is an active participant in each of the three primary missions of Emory University: Clinical Service, Research, Education
The Neurorehabilitation Program is a small but growing, interdisciplinary program with collaborative activities across a number of Atlanta-area institutions.
Neurovascular/Stroke Program
The Emory University Stroke Center serves as a major primary care and tertiary referral center for patients with Stroke and Cerebrovascular Diseases from Atlanta, throughout Georgia, and much of the Southeast. The Center consists of a multi-specialty group of physicians who provide expert care in the management of patients with acute ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, cerebral venous thrombosis, carotid stenosis, and intracranial arterial stenosis.
The Emory Program in Sleep is a program of academicians interested in sleep from a variety of perspectives including: behavioral, historical, cultural, and biological. It includes a diverse faculty from across Emory College, Emory School of Medicine, Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Rollins School of Public Health, Yerkes National Primate Center, and Emory Healthcare. Together, we are committed to understanding sleep disorders and the importance of sleep health in our society.
The Division of Stroke and Cerebrovascular Diseases at Emory University serves as a major tertiary referral center for patients extending from Atlanta throughout much of the Southeast. Our Division consists of neurology specialists Board-certified in Vascular Neurology who provide expert care in the evaluation and treatment of patients with all kinds of cerebrovascular diseases, including the following:
The Dizziness and Balance Center at Emory consists of a multi-specialty group of physicians and physical therapists with specialists from Neurology, Physical Therapy, Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology. The Center specializes in treating patients with dizziness, vertigo and balance disorders and has several ongoing research projects. Specific interests include Meniere's disease, benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), vestibular neuritis, ototoxicity, nystagmus, balance and falls.
