Chimeric gene and protein that can be used to create Optogranules: Light induced stress granules (SJ-18-0010) | St. Jude Research
St. Jude Reference #SJ-18-0010
Researchers at St. Jude have created a vector expressing a light-sensitive protein that can be used for light-inducible stress granules ("Optogranules"), and as such, a cell line stably expressing this vector that create stress granules upon exposure to blue light.
Stress granules are liquid-phase cytoplasmic RNA-protein granules that accrue in all cell types in response to stressful stimuli. Disturbance in the assembly and dynamics of these structures is closely associated with a wide array of human diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases, cancer and infectious diseases. They are increasingly the focus of biomedical research, but these studies are confounded by the conditions required to induce stress granule formation. Our system permits rapid, uniform and non-toxic induction of stress granules with a brief pulse of blue light.
Currently, most labs cause stress granule assembly by exposing cells to heat shock or arsenite stress. These exogenous stressors confound research into the role of stress granules in diseases such as ALS, FTD, cancer, etc.
Vector, light-sensitive protein, light-inducible, stress granules, ALS, FTD, cancer
Pending US application published as US 2021/0179676
Posted Pre-print publication at: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2018/06/15/348870.article-metrics
J. Paul Taylor, Peipei Zhang, Baochang Fan, Peiguo Yang, Jamshid Temirov, James Messing, Hong Joo Kim, OptoGranules reveal the evolution of stress granules to ALS-FTD pathology, doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/348870
Please contact us if you are interested in licensing this technology. Contact: chad.riggs@stjude.org.
EX-99.1 2 enta-ex991_6.htm EX-99.1 enta-ex991_6.htm
WATERTOWN, Mass., May 8, 2018 – Enanta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ:ENTA), a research and development-focused biotechnology company dedicated to creating small molecule drugs for viral infections and liver diseases, today reported financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2018.
New data on EP-027367, one of several core inhibitors Enanta is evaluating for hepatitis B virus was presented at the International Liver Congress ™ (ILC) 2018 in April. The data demonstrated that in a chimeric SCID mouse model with human liver cells, EP-027367 reduced viral DNA and RNA levels by up to 3.0 logs from baseline with 4 weeks of treatment and demonstrated a favorable tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile. EP-027367 has also demonstrated potent, pan-genotypic, anti-HBV activity capable of preventing the establishment of cccDNA in vitro.
Seronegative spondyloarthropathy imaging: Looking at the past, hitting the future Lacout A, Carlier R, Marcy PY - Indian J Radiol Imaging
Login | Users online: 2263
Year : 2015 | Volume : 25 | Issue : 4 | Page : 476-477
Seronegative spondyloarthropathy imaging: Looking at the past, hitting the future
Alexis Lacout1, Robert Carlier2, Pierre-Yves Marcy3
1 Medical Imaging Center, 47 Boulevard du Pont Rouge, 15000 Aurillac, France
2 Medical Imaging Department, Raymond PoincaréHospital, 104 Boulevard Raymond Poincaré, 92380 Garches, France
3 Medical Imaging Department, François Baclesse Center, 3, Avenue du Geéneéral-Harris, 14076 Caen Cedex 05, France
Lacout A, Carlier R, Marcy PY. Seronegative spondyloarthropathy imaging: Looking at the past, hitting the future. Indian J Radiol Imaging 2015;25:476-7
Lacout A, Carlier R, Marcy PY. Seronegative spondyloarthropathy imaging: Looking at the past, hitting the future. Indian J Radiol Imaging [serial online] 2015 [cited 2020 Jul 9];25:476-7. Available from: http://www.ijri.org/text.asp?2015/25/4/476/169461
Further to the paper by Prakash et al. entitled "Seronegative spondyloarthropathy-related sacroiliitis: CT, MRI features and differentials," published in the 2014 September issue of the Indian Journal of Radiology and Imaging, we congratulate the authors and wish to make further comments.
The authors report the different CT and MRI features of seronegative spondylarthropathy, and state that conventional radiography is not a useful tool for early disease detection. We do agree that MR is the sole imaging modality permitting to depict bone marrow edema at the first stage of the disease before erosions and sclerosis appear. This belongs to the well-known and major ASAS criteria.[1] However, looking at the past, we assume that conventional radiology still has a place at the early-stage diagnosis. As a matter of fact, digital tomosynthesis is a low-radiation dose imaging means, a numerical revival of "conventional" tomography, which is available on a conventional remote-controlled radiology table. The extensive number of acquisition slices prevents from superimposition of anatomical structures, thus improving detection of tiny lesions such as bone erosions [Figure 1]. Tomosynthesis may, therefore, definitely help in selecting patients requiring MRI examination of the sacroiliac joint to depict subchondral edema according to the ASAS criteria.[2]
Figure 1(A-C): Standard radiography of the left sacroiliac joint. (A) No bony erosion could be detected (B) Tomosynthesis (coronal plane) and (C) CT scan (axial plane) examination discloses subtle subchondral erosions of the sacroiliac joints (arrows), whereas bone sclerosis (large arrow) is depicted on standard CT scan
Looking at the future, PET scan may become a core diagnosis tool too. Although "standard" 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose [(18F) FDG] tracer may target and image inflammation such as the bone marrow edema areas, [18F] fluoride tracer may highlight osteoblastic activity and bone remodeling in the areas of interest [Figure 2].[3] As bone remodeling is the key point of the "functional imaging" physiopathological process of inflammation that leads to joint ankylosis, [18F] fluoride may better predict the patient's prognosis than the other "morphological" imaging modalities, which do not reflect this dynamic process.
Figure 2 (A-E): Young male patient suspected of sacroiliitis undergoing PET studies (A and B) by using (18F) D-glucose and (18F) fluoride radionuclides (C and D) and MRI (STIR) (E) MRI shows no bone edema and (18F) FDG-PET shows no uptake, while (18F) fluoride-PET scan xamination shows hot spot corresponding to osteoblastic bone remodeling. BioMed Central, Fischer DR, et al.[3]
In conclusion, we believe that management of patient with seronegative spondyloarthropathy may be improved by adding both the digital tomosynthesis (leading to prompt early-stage MRI diagnosis) and the positron emission tomography (PET) [18F] fluoride scan (prognostic tool) to the traditional MRI and CT scan imaging means.
Rudwaleit M, Jurik AG, Hermann KG, Landewé R, van der Heijde D, Baraliakos X, et al. Defining active sacroiliitis on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for classification of axial spondyloarthritis: A consensual approach by the ASAS/OMERACT MRI group. Ann Rheum Dis 2009;68:1520-7.
Lacout A, El Hajjam M, Marcy PY. Tomosynthesis for early diagnosis of sacro-iliitis. Joint Bone Spine 2015;82:63.
Bruijnen ST, van der Weijden MA, Klein JP, Hoekstra OS, Boellaard R, van Denderen JC, et al. Bone formation rather than inflammation reflects ankylosing spondylitis activity on PET-CT: A pilot study. Arthritis Res Ther 2012;14:R71.
MyMichigan Health welcomes new human resource leader - upnorthvoice.com
HomeNewsMyMichigan Health welcomes new human resource leader
Julie Ward, Ed.D.
MIDLAND – Julie Ward, Ed.D. a human resources leader with more than 30 years of experience, has been named senior vice president and chief human resources officer at MyMichigan Health. She has been with the health system in the role of system vice president of human resources since 2021 and will now transition to senior vice president and chief human resources officer.
"Julie's commitment to excellence and human resources administration has been very evident during her time with the health system," said Greg Rogers, president and CEO, MyMichigan Health. "One of her many accomplishments was evaluating and implementing a critical staffing stabilization plan during the peak of the pandemic that was very well received."
Ward is a highly motivated professional with experience in health care leadership and education who specializes in implementing creative approaches to complex problems and key relationship building. Prior to joining MyMichigan Health in 2021, she was an associate professor at Ferris State University in the Health Care Administration Program since 2008. Ward also served at Central Michigan Community Hospital as the vice president of human resources for many years.
"I am very excited to transition to my new role with MyMichigan Health," said Ward. "As the largest employer in most of the counties we serve, it's critical we attract and retain top talent. I have had the opportunity to work with our existing human resource team while at MyMichigan and I know together we will achieve our goals."
A Michigan native, she received her bachelor's degree in health system management from Ferris State University and her Master of Science in administration in health services administration from Central Michigan University. Ward completed her Doctor of Education in health professions from A.T. Still University located in Mesa, Ariz. Ward and her husband have two adult children.
HOHL Uterine Manipulator Brand New ADDLER Laparoscopy
Golden Nimbus India Private Limited - Offering HOHL Uterine Manipulator Brand New ADDLER Laparoscopy in Mumbai, Maharashtra. Get best price and read about company. Get contact details and address| ID: 23122623097
· The estimated cost for a hysterectomy performed in a hospital is $4,271 for a vaginal hysterectomy to $8,413 for a vaginal or abdominal hysterectomy with an endoscope (laparoscopic hysterectomy). The cost is lower when the surgery occurs in an outpatient (ambulatory) surgical center ($1,816 to $3,588, respectively).
Gynecologic Laparoscopy: Purpose, Procedure, and
Laparoscopy for Endometriosis: Procedure,
· Laparoscopy is a surgical procedure used to diagnose endometriosis and treat symptoms such as pain. In some cases, laparoscopy may improve your chances of getting pregnant. Complications are rare.
Laparoscopy Endometriosis Infertility: Recovery, Cost, And
· Laparoscopy Endometriosis Infertility Procedure. Endometriosis occurs when the endometrial glands that usually line the inside of the uterus are displaced and found outside the uterus on the pelvic and abdominal structures. When a woman suffers from endometriosis, she becomes infertile, a condition known as endometriosis infertility.
· Your Location: The price for a hysterectomy depends on where you live. The cost of surgery varies from state to state. Hospitals in the same city may even have different prices for the same surgery. Your Hospital: Hospitals that do many hysterectomies sometimes charge less. Call your hospital and ask what it charges.
A diagnostic laparoscopy is incomplete without a second puncture because, without this second probe, it is not possible to visualize all the structures completely. During the laparoscopy the entire pelvis is carefully scanned and the organs inspected systematically - the uterus; the ovaries; and the lining of the abdomen, called the peritoneum.
Laparoscopy for Endometriosis: Procedure, Recovery, and
Laparoscopic Hysterectomy is a procedure used to remove the uterus in females. It is proceeded with a small incision in navel using a small camera. Digital images from this camera are then fetched and displayed on the monitor screen to perform the procedure smoothly.2-3 small incisions are made in the lower part of the abdomen via which special .
Women of good health who don't have a high risk of cervical cancer may qualify for a partial laparoscopic hysterectomy. Before a partial laparoscopic hysterectomy to remove the uterus, other treatment options including fibroid removal (also called a myomectomy) may be attempted. The most common reasons for a partial hysterectomy are:
Gynecologic Laparoscopy: Background, History of the
· During the last 40 years, laparoscopy has evolved from a limited gynecologic surgical procedure used only for diagnosis and tubal ligations to a major surgical tool used for a multitude of gynecologic and nongynecologic indications. Today, laparoscopy is one of the most common surgical procedures performed in many parts of the world.
The ovarian cyst removal. Laparoscopy. - All information
· Laparoscopy is a method of surgical access, when the operation is performed under control of a special video camera special thin instruments. Instruments and optical tube with a camera inserted into the abdominal cavity through small incisions on the skin (~ 1 cm). They are introduced through special conduits – trocars – making it easy to enter, retrieve, and change …
· Role of Laparoscopy. Laparoscopy is a minimal access surgical technique where vision is achieved with the help of a telescope. Laparoscopy is the gold standard for diagnosis of endometriosis and has the benefit of treating the disease at the same time. How endometriosis can cause fertility-related issues. There are four reasons for decreased .
Women With Fibroids Should Think Twice Before Getting
· LAAM is a hybrid surgery takes the thoroughness of an open procedure and faster recovery of standard laparoscopy. It uses just two small incisions, one 5MM incision at the belly button and a 1.5 .
Gynaecological laparoscopy | Health Information | Bupa UK
Risks. Laparoscopy is relatively safe, but with all surgical procedures, there are risks involved, including: Internal bleeding; Hernia (a bulge caused by poor healing) at the incision sites
Often, to get good pictures of the uterus, ovaries, and fallopian tubes, the bladder needs be full. That's why women getting a pelvic ultrasound are asked to drink lots of water before the test. A transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS) is often better to look at the uterus. For this test, the TVUS probe (that works the same way as the ultrasound .
Laparoscopy should be used judiciously, as there may be an increased risk of preterm labor and fetal demise after negative laparoscopy for presumed appendicitis [73, 74]. The risks and benefits of diagnostic laparoscopy for other conditions during pregnancy have not been well documented and require further study.
B.C. health officials have identified another 89 cases of COVID-19 in the Vancouver Island region Friday.
The new cases were among 649 cases found across B.C. over the past 24 hours.
There are currently 5,106 active cases of COVID-19 in British Columbia, including 545 active cases in the Island Health region, according to the BC Centre for Disease Control (BCCDC).
Island Health data identified the locations of 452 active cases Friday, including 172 in the South Island, 239 in the Central Island and 41 in the North Island.
Fifty-four people are in hospital for treatment of COVID-19 in the Island Health region, 20 of whom require critical care, according to the BCCDC.
British Columbia recorded 13 more COVID-19-related deaths over the past 24 hours, two of which were located in the Island Health region, according to BCCDC data.
Since the pandemic began, 2,109 people have died of COVID-19 in the province, including 86 deaths reported out of the Island Health region.
As of Friday, 89.4 per cent of eligible British Columbians have received one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, while 83.9 per cent have received two doses.
In total, the province has administered 8,120,458 doses of COVID-19 vaccine since it began its vaccination efforts in December 2020.
Top Stories
Young pedestrian dies after being struck by vehicle in Saanich crosswalk
NEW
NEW | Search underway for man missing from Malahat RV park
'Utterly devastating': Prosecution disappointed by overturned convictions in Saanich couple's murder
Overnight fire forces residents from homes in Vic West
DEVELOPING
DEVELOPING | COVID-19 on Vancouver Island: Health officials to provide case update
Oak Bay man builds 'advent gratitude tree' to provide daily positivity
Victoria 'Let it Flow' campaign aims to end period poverty
'It is really disturbing': Campbell River security guard stabbed, in serious condition after theft at Walmart
Search CTV News Advertise on CTVNews.ca Political Ads Registry About CTV Careers CTV News Stox Press Room Editorial Standards & Policies Contact Us
CTV News Programs
CTV National News Power Play W5 CTV Question Period Pop Life
Local News
AtlanticBarrieCalgary EdmontonGuelphKitchener LethbridgeLondonMontreal Northern OntarioOttawa Prince AlbertRed DeerRegina SaskatoonToronto VancouverVancouver Island WindsorWinnipegYorkton
CTV News App Video Help
Stay up to date on the latest, breaking news
Subscribe to newsletter
© 2021 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy
[Vegetarian nutrition: preventive potential and possible risks. Part 2: animal foods and recommendations]. - Aprifel
[Vegetarian nutrition: preventive potential and possible risks. Part 2: animal f...
Hahn LA., Wolters M., Waldmann A., Ströhle A.
Wien Klin Wochenschr.. #118:23-24 p728-37
Abteilung Ernahrungsphysiologie und Humanernahrung, Institut fur Lebensmittelwissenschaft, Zentrum Angewandte Chemie der Universitat Hannover, Deutschland.
INTRODUCTION: As shown in the first part of this article, consuming high amounts of fruits, vegetables, whole grains and nuts can lower the risk for several chronic diseases. However, the relevance of animal foods consumed within a vegetarian diet is less well-known.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We followed a nutritive and a metabolic-epidemiological approach to obtain dietary recommendations. A MEDLINE-research was performed for all animal food groups relevant with a vegetarian diet (key words: "eggs", "milk", "dietary pattern" "vegetarian diet", "cancer", "cardiovascular disease", "diabetes mellitus", "osteoporosis", "vitamin D", "vitamin B(12)", "iron", "iodine"). All relevant food groups were characterized regarding their nutrient content and rated with respect to the available metabolic-epidemiological evidence.
RESULTS: Based on the evidence criteria of the WHO/FAO, colorectal cancer risk reduction by a high intake of milk and milk products is assessed as probable, while a higher risk of prostate and ovarial carcinomas is also probable. The evidence of a risk-increasing effect of eggs relating to cardiovascular disease, colorectal cancer and breast cancer is assessed as probable. As the data of prospective cohort studies suggest, a prudent diet pattern characterized high in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and nuts is associated with a lower risk of coronary heart disease and diabetes mellitus type 2. In contrast, there is no overall association between prudent diet pattern and risk of breast cancer or colorectal cancer. The critical key nutrients for vegetarians are vitamin D and B12, iodine and iron.
CONCLUSION: For the first time evidence based dietary recommendations were provided for persons on a vegetarian diet in the D-A-CH-region.
health behavior change | Babyforyou.net.ua- babyforyou.net.ua
By Brian Dolan May 20, 2015
Southern New Jersey's MD Anderson Cancer Center at Cooper is setting up a program for 30 of its breast cancer patients that equips them with Apple Watches to help them self-manage their treatment as well as stay better connected to their care team and each other. The center is working with Wayne, Pennsylvania-based behavioral health technology company Polaris Health Directions on the nine-month...
By Brian Dolan February 19, 2015
This afternoon -- in about two hours time -- Babyforyou.net.ua will kick off our February webinar, Texting for Health: A proven patient engagement and communication strategy, at 2PM ET. More than any other digital channel, text messaging is a proven way to improve patient engagement and health outcomes while remaining cost-effective for healthcare providers. From appointment reminders, to general...
Study: Rewards boost enrollment, but not sustained engagement
By Jonah Comstock July 29, 2014
Rewards-based systems work to bring people into an online health management program, but they don't do much to encourage sustained engagement, according to a study recently published in the Journal of Internet Medical Research. The study, conducted by researchers at the University of Toronto in Canada, looked at 140,000 potential users of an online health intervention called My Health eSupport....
Kvedar to tackle consumer health with Wellocracy
By Neil Versel November 28, 2012
A new company from Center for Connected Health (CCH) Director Dr. Joseph Kvedar will take a stab at the difficult task of engaging consumers in their own health by studying the missteps of others and attempting to simplify the processes of education and motivation. Kvedar and business partners, including self-help author Carol Colman and integrative medicine practitioner – and former personal...
By Brian Dolan November 1, 2012
Striiv launches free iPhone app: Smart Pedometer
By Brian Dolan October 18, 2012
Redwood City, California-based startup Striiv, makers of a dedicated portable fitness device of the same name, has launched its first iPhone app, Striiv Smart Pedometer. The free app appears to have much of the same functionality as the company's $99 dedicated device. Striiv partnered with MyFitnessPal for its calorie counting features and large food database. Striiv's dedicated device encourages...
By Brian Dolan October 16, 2012
By Brian Dolan June 5, 2012
SK Telecom Americas (SKTA), the Sunnyvale, California–based incubator of the South Korean telecom company has decided to shutdown the employer wellness offering, yesWell, which it has been developing for the past three years, Babyforyou.net.ua has learned. According to an email from SKTA's former VP of Business Development, Richard Meider, that company had spent about $9.5 million developing the...
PsychiatryOnline | American Journal of Psychiatry | Suicide Rates in Clinical Trials of SSRIs, Other Antidepressants, and Placebo: Analysis of FDA Reports
| April 01, 2003 Suicide Rates in Clinical Trials of SSRIs, Other Antidepressants, and Placebo: Analysis of FDA Reports
Arif Khan, M.D.; Shirin Khan; Russell Kolts, Ph.D.; Walter A. Brown, M.D.
Am J Psychiatry 2003;160:790-792. doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.160.4.790
Abstract | Method | Results | Discussion | References OBJECTIVE: Previous reports suggesting that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) use is associated with increased suicidal risk have not assessed completed suicides. The authors analyzed reports from randomized controlled trials to compare suicide rates among depressed patients assigned to an SSRI, other antidepressants, or placebo. METHOD: Food and Drug Administration (FDA) summary reports of the controlled clinical trials for nine modern FDA-approved antidepressants provided data for comparing rates of suicide. RESULTS: Of 48,277 depressed patients participating in the trials, 77 committed suicide. Based on patient exposure years, similar suicide rates were seen among those randomly assigned to an SSRI (0.59%, 95% confidence interval [CI]=0.31%–0.87%), a standard comparison antidepressant (0.76%, 95% CI=0.49%–1.03%), or placebo (0.45%, 95% CI=0.01%–0.89%). CONCLUSIONS: These findings fail to support either an overall difference in suicide risk between antidepressant- and placebo-treated depressed subjects in controlled trials or a difference between SSRIs and either other types of antidepressants or placebo.Abstract Teaser
A decade ago, Teicher et al. (1) suggested, on the basis of case reports, that treatment with some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants might selectively increase suicidality. This possibility continues to be raised and remains to be either definitely proven or put to rest (2–6). Data pertaining to potential suicidal risk during SSRI treatment include reports of suicidal ideation, impulses, or attempts but only anecdotal reports of suicide (1–6). To further address this question, we reviewed suicide data from summary basis of approval reports obtained from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) through the Freedom of Information Act (7), following methods reported previously (8, 9). We tested for differences in reported rates of suicide among depressed patients randomly assigned to treatment with an investigational (but subsequently FDA-approved) SSRI antidepressant compared with similar subjects assigned to another standard antidepressant or to placebo.
Abstract | Method | Results | Discussion | References We obtained FDA clinical trial data for nine antidepressants (fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, venlafaxine, nefazodone, mirtazapine, sustained-release bupropion, extended-release venlafaxine, and citalopram) ultimately approved for use in the United States between January 1985 and January 2000. The data were sent on microfiche or a hard paper copy for a small fee by a specific request to the FDA (FDA Freedom of Information Staff, 5600 Fishers Lane, HFI-35 Rockville, MD 20857).
Rates of suicide were classified for patients assigned to an SSRI, placebo, or another class of antidepressant. The SSRIs were fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, citalopram, and one "active control" (fluvoxamine). The other antidepressants were the investigational agents nefazodone, mirtazapine, bupropion, and venlafaxine (both immediate and extended release) as well as six active controls (imipramine, amitriptyline, maprotiline, trazodone, mianserin, and dothiepin).
For purposes of data analysis, we scrutinized all the suicides from all FDA summary basis of approval reports and ascertained the antidepressant the patients were taking at the time they committed suicide. For example, a patient who was in one of the paroxetine clinical trials had been assigned to 6 weeks of clomipramine during the trial followed by 4 weeks of fluvoxamine therapy, at which time he hung himself. We classified this as a suicide while patient was receiving an SSRI. Thus, this approach is unlike our approach in earlier publications (8, 9). In our earlier reports we had combined suicide rates and suicide attempt rates based on groups of trials conducted for each investigational antidepressant.
We attempted to assess both rates of suicide and suicide attempts. From all of the FDA summary basis of approval reports, we were able to assess completed suicides. However, data for suicide attempts were either not included (fluoxetine, immediate-release venlafaxine, or bupropion) or were hard to classify by specific agent. Thus, we are including only completed suicides for this report.
We tabulated the number of suicides in relation to the total number of patients randomly assigned to a treatment condition in the antidepressant clinical trials. Additionally, we were able to estimate the incidence of suicide by patient exposure years (i.e., cumulative time that subjects were exposed to an investigational antidepressant, an active comparator, or placebo while participating in a research program). Suicide rates based on patient exposure years were not available from the trials for fluoxetine or bupropion.
Additionally, when available from the FDA summary basis of approval reports, we classified the method of suicide. This was done so that we could assess if method of suicide differed between the three trial assignments. We found six methods of suicide: hanging, overdose, drowning, gunshot, jumping, and carbon monoxide poisoning.
We used chi-square analyses to assess the statistical significance of differences in suicide frequency among the subjects receiving placebo, SSRIs, and other antidepressants. Further, we calculated 95% confidence intervals (CI) to estimate the probability of overlap of suicide risk among the three treatment assignments. Because of the six methods of suicide and small number of patients involved, we did not perform any statistical tests.
Abstract | Method | Results | Discussion | References As seen in t1, there was no statistical difference in crude suicide rates among patients assigned to SSRIs, other antidepressants, or placebo (χ2=2.83, df=2, p>0.05). In addition, when groups were compared on the basis of patient exposure years, there was no statistical difference in suicide rate among patients assigned to SSRIs, other antidepressants, or placebo (χ2=1.39, df=2, p>0.05).
Methods of suicide were available for 39 of the 77 completed suicides. Of the 38 suicides of patients assigned to an SSRI, three were by hanging, two were by overdose, and one was by drowning. Of the 34 suicides of patients assigned to other antidepressants, nine were by hanging, six were by overdose, six were by drowning, five were by gunshot, three were by jumping, and three were by carbon monoxide poisoning. Of the five suicides of patients assigned to placebo, the one completed suicide for which the method was known was by hanging. No clear differences were observed for patients treated with SSRIs compared with patients given other antidepressants.
Abstract | Method | Results | Discussion | References In response to earlier reports that SSRIs may increase suicidal ideation, suicidal impulses, or suicide attempts (1–6), this study aimed to assess whether the suicide rate was higher among depressed patients assigned to SSRI antidepressants compared with those assigned to other antidepressants or to placebo. Our results suggest that suicide rates are similar among all of the three trial assignments. Further, method of suicide did not appear to differ among the three trial assignments.
These findings do not conclusively prove whether onset of suicidal ideation, suicidal impulses, or suicide attempts with SSRI treatment—either as a result of drug-induced akathisia or some other means—does lead to completed suicides. We could not fully assess overall suicide risk as measured by suicidal ideation, suicidal impulsivity, suicidal gestures or attempts, or the ratio of suicide attempts to completed suicides in the study group, since much of these data were missing. Thus, the only possible conclusion supported by the present data is that prescription of SSRI antidepressants is not associated with greater risk of completed suicide. Also, no specific form of assessment or vigilance is warranted as to means of suicide with SSRI antidepressants, since method of suicide does not appear to be any more impulsive for these drugs than for other antidepressants.
Antidepressant clinical trial participants are not identical to routine clinical samples of depressed patients. They are mild to moderately depressed, not actively suicidal when they enter the trial, and are mostly outpatients without comorbid psychiatric or medical illnesses or substance abuse disorders. This database only included patients who lacked psychotic features and who never had a hypomanic or manic episode. Further, the length of participation in clinical trials is generally shorter than what patients receive in general clinical practice. Routine clinical practice is also usually associated with higher doses of medication as well as the use of other medications. Thus, there are limitations to extrapolating our findings to all depressed patients. Nonetheless, it is noteworthy that the annual suicide rate for depressed clinical trial participants (0.66%) was similar to annual suicide rates reported for patients diagnosed with major affective disorders over years of risk and varied treatment conditions (0.30%–0.80%) and was nearly 40 times higher than the recent estimate for the general international population (0.0166%) (10, 11).
The numerically lower (but not significantly lower) suicide rate in depressed patients assigned to placebo may be in part due to the relatively short duration of exposure to placebo inantidepressant clinical trials, particularly for patients who only received placebo during the run-in phase (a period in which all of the trial participants were given placebo for about 1 week before random assignment). Paradoxically, we found the suicide rate to be numerically higher in non-SSRI-treated patients but not significantly different from suicide rates in the placebo- or SSRI-treated groups.
These findings need replication from other databases. Also, the question as to whether SSRIs induce suicidal ideation, suicidal impulses, and suicide attempts needs clarification. This report is based on suicide rates with antidepressants conventionally described as SSRIs and those conventionally assigned to other classes. These designations do not accurately describe the intrinsic pharmacological properties of antidepressants. Thus, our findings do not address the relationship between serotonin activity and suicide. Last, these data indicate that greater suicide risk is not associated with any type/class of antidepressants.
In conclusion, data from our analysis suggest that use of antidepressants from any of the existing subclasses of drugs has little effect on suicide rates in clinical trials. Prescription of SSRIs does not seem to be associated with higher suicide rates.
Received Aug. 6, 2002; revision received Oct. 29, 2002; accepted Dec. 2, 2002. From the Northwest Clinical Research Center, Bellevue, Wash.; the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, N.C.; the Department of Psychology, Eastern Washington University, Cheney, Wash.; the Department of Psychiatry, Brown University, Providence, R.I.; and Tufts University, Boston. Address reprint requests to Arif Khan, M.D., 1900 116th Ave. NE #112, Bellevue, WA 98004; akhan@nwcrc.net (e-mail). The authors thank Ross J. Baldessarini, M.D., for editorial assistance.
Abstract | Method | Results | Discussion | References 1 +Teicher MH, Glod C, Cole JO: Emergence of intense suicidal preoccupation during fluoxetine treatment. Am J Psychiatry
1990; 147:207-210[PubMed] 2 +Beasley CM, Dornseif BE, Bosomworth JC, Sayler ME, Rampey AH, Heiligenstein JH, Thompson VL, Murphy DJ, Masica DN: Fluoxetine and suicide: a meta-analysis of controlled trials of treatment for depression. Br Med J
1991; 303:685-692[CrossRef] 3 +Healy D, Langmaak C, Savage M: Suicide in the course of the treatment of depression. J Psychopharmacol
1999; 13:94-99[PubMed][CrossRef] 4 +Healy D: A failure to warn. Int J Risk and Safety in Med
1999; 12:151-156 5 +Healy D: Emergence of antidepressant induced suicidality. Primary Care Psychiatry
2000; 6:23-28[CrossRef] 6 +Tranter R, Healy H, Cattell D, Healy D: Functional effects of agents differentially selective to noradrenergic or serotonergic systems. Psychol Med
2002; 32:517-524[PubMed] 7 +Freedom of Information Act:5 US Congress. 552 (1994 and Supplement II 1996). Available at 8 +Khan A, Warner HA, Brown WA: Symptom reduction and suicide risk in patients treated with placebo in antidepressant clinical trials: an analysis of the Food and Drug Administration Database. Arch Gen Psychiatry
2000; 57:311-317[PubMed][CrossRef] 9 +Khan A, Khan SR, Leventhal RM, Brown WA: Symptom reduction and suicide risk in patients treated with placebo in antidepressant clinical trials: a replication analysis of the Food and Drug Administration Database. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol
2001; 4:113-118[PubMed] 10 +Harris EC, Barraclough B: Suicide as an outcome for mental disorders: a meta analysis. Br J Psychiatry
1997; 170:205-208[PubMed][CrossRef] 11 +Baldessarini RJ, Tondo L, Hennen J: Reduced suicide risk during long-term treatment with lithium. Ann NY Acad Sci 2001; 932: 24-43 Anchor for JumpAnchor for JumpAnchor for Jump+View LargeDownload Slide (.ppt)
1 +Teicher MH, Glod C, Cole JO: Emergence of intense suicidal preoccupation during fluoxetine treatment. Am J Psychiatry
1997; 170:205-208[PubMed][CrossRef] 11 +Baldessarini RJ, Tondo L, Hennen J: Reduced suicide risk during long-term treatment with lithium. Ann NY Acad Sci 2001; 932: 24-43 +
Recipient(s) will receive an email with a link (good for 72 hours) to 'Suicide Rates in Clinical Trials of SSRIs, Other Antidepressants, and Placebo: Analysis of FDA Reports'
's American Journal of Psychiatry: 'Suicide Rates in Clinical Trials of SSRIs, Other Antidepressants, and Placebo: Analysis of FDA Reports'
Arif Khan, Shirin Khan, Russell Kolts, Walter A. Brown; Suicide Rates in Clinical Trials of SSRIs, Other Antidepressants, and Placebo: Analysis of FDA Reports. American Journal of Psychiatry. 2003 Apr;160(4):790-792. Download citation file: RIS (Zotero) EndNote BibTex Medlars ProCite RefWorks Reference Manager Copyright © American Psychiatric Association. All rights reserved.
The Role of Psychiatrists Who Write for Popular Media: Experts, Commentators, or Educators?Am J Psychiatry 1 July 2009: Vol. 166. no. 7, pp. 757-759Frequency of Provider Contact After FDA Advisory on Risk of Pediatric Suicidality With SSRIsAm J Psychiatry 1 January 2008: Vol. 165. no. 1, pp. 42-50Spillover Effects on Treatment of Adult Depression in Primary Care After FDA Advisory on Risk of Pediatric Suicidality With SSRIsAm J Psychiatry 1 August 2007: Vol. 164. no. 8, pp. 1198-1205Decline in Treatment of Pediatric Depression After FDA Advisory on Risk of Suicidality With SSRIsAm J Psychiatry 1 June 2007: Vol. 164. no. 6, pp. 884-891The Relationship Between Antidepressant Prescription Rates and Rate of Early Adolescent SuicideAm J Psychiatry 1 November 2006: Vol. 163. no. 11, pp. 1898-1904
Manual of Clinical Psychopharmacology, 7th Edition > Chapter 1. >Legal, Ethical, and Economic IssuesGabbard's Treatments of Psychiatric Disorders, 4th Edition > Chapter 1. >Treatment of Depressive DisordersManual of Clinical Psychopharmacology, 7th Edition > Chapter 12. >Pediatric PsychopharmacologyAPA Practice Guidelines > Chapter 6. >Antidepressants and Other Somatic TreatmentsManual of Clinical Psychopharmacology, 7th Edition > Chapter 10. >Depression and Suicidality
Data Fail to Answer Key Question About SSRIs' Suicide Risk19 March 2004Are FDA Antidepressant Warnings Linked to Rise in Youth Suicides?17 July 2014 doi:10.1176/appi.pn.2014.7b18FDA Adds Suicide Warnings For Adults on Antidepressants5 August 2005Suicide Rates Began to Drop With Advent of SSRIs1 April 2005FDA Orders Stricter Suicide Warnings for Antidepressants16 April 2004
Antidepressants and the FDA's black-box warning: determining a rational public policy in the absence of sufficient evidence.
No time to do your Qualitative Inquiry in Education research paper? Here is an example of what we can do for you.
The purpose of a qualitative inquiry in the field of education is to read and review a published qualitative research study from an academic journal or edited book and analyze the research design, quality, and relevance for your educational area of interest.
A good example of a qualitative journalis the Qualitative Inquiry in Education journal. One specific topic that can be focused on is distance education and/or internet learning activities in a classroom setting.
How to Go About a Qualitative Inquiry Research Project
1. Locate and read an academic journal article or book chapter related to your area of interest that reports on a qualitative research study
2. Write a critique of the article including the following components:
Summary: Give a brief summary of the research study including the author's purposes, conceptual context, research questions, methods, results, and conclusions. Be sure to include the most important points and arguments of the study.
Analysis: Use the 12 questions listed below. Not all of the questions may be relevant for your article, but be sure to address the main issues of credibility and validity and look closely for any limitations and/or issues that might make you question the methods or results of the study.
Implications: Explain what useful ideas the article contains both for you as a practitioner and as a researcher. Briefly describe how the results might be applied in practice and explain what methods or ideas might be relevant for your own research project.
3. Include the full citation for your article or book chapter using complete, correct APA style, and attach a copy of the article for me to review (this will be returned to you).
A Dozen Questions to Ask When Reading Research for Qualitative Inquiry in Education Research Paper:
Has the paper been peer reviewed for a refereed journal?
Is evidence of replication available to support the results?
Is a conflict of interest evident for the person(s) doing, sponsoring or disseminating the study?
Can the question(s) asked be answered in the study?
Is evidence of technical problems apparent in design or analysis?
Are sample composition and size adequate to address the question(s) asked and to support the conclusions reached?
Are the conclusions offered supported by the findings?
Is there indication that the investigator was careless in conducting or reporting the study?
Does the author say things about the study that appear to be examples of a poor understanding of scholarship?
Is the author conscientious in frankly drawing your attention to limitations imposed by the design or sample, or compromises made to circumvent problems?
Did you encounter any other reason for suspending trust in the study?
Do you understand all of the report, or, in all honesty, do you require assistance with some elements?
Peer Reviewed Journals - Peer Reviewed Journals research papers discuss the academic publications that present articles of new research, review articles, and book reviews.
Scholarly Journals - Scholarly Journals are largely written by academic experts for academics and are great sources for students to use academic research.
Qualitative Dissertation - A qualitative dissertation is a research study that bases its results on findings correlated through methodology such as interviews, focus groups and participant observation.
