Drugs That Can Cause Liver Damage | Banyan Treatment Centers Pompano
Drug-induced liver disease is often the result of substance abuse or long-term use of certain medications.
In severe cases, drug-induced liver injury can result in liver failure, which may require hospitalization and a liver transplant. This damage can be worse when the individual uses multiple substances at a time. As a Pompano substance abuse treatment center, we understand the effects of drugs on the liver and want to share a list of both illicit and prescription drugs that can cause liver damage.
What Drugs Cause Liver Damage?
The possibility of experiencing liver damage from medication is widespread knowledge. If you've ever been prescribed any medications, you may recall your doctor warning you about the impact of drugs and what those drugs can do to your liver, especially if you take higher doses than prescribed or if you mix them with other substances, like alcohol. But if prescription drugs can cause liver damage, imagine what street drugs can do to this organ. Below are some medications and illegal drugs that can cause liver damage.
Many studies on drug abuse and liver disease have found acetaminophen to be a common culprit. Acetaminophen is a medication that's used to treat moderate to severe pain and is often used in conjunction with opiates to reduce fever. Also known as Tylenol, acetaminophen is also available in many over-the-counter medications such as Actifed, Alka-Seltzer Plus Liquid Gels, Cepacol, Contac, Nyquil, and more. However, this drug is also known for causing liver damage when taken in excess. When people follow the recommended dose of this drug, they're relatively safe. However, many people often take higher doses for pain relief or may misuse drugs that contain this ingredient, increasing their risk of liver damage and even overdose.
Acetaminophen causes liver damage by overwhelming the glutathione pathway with its metabolite, NAPQI. Your cells contain glutathione, a substance that acts as an antioxidant in your body and detoxifies chemicals like pollutants and drugs. When someone takes too much acetaminophen, it overwhelms this pathway, causing the toxic compounds to accumulate in the liver, impairing its ability to rid the body of toxins and causing damage. Additionally, as with other medications, mixing acetaminophen with other drugs or alcohol can also increase the likelihood of developing liver problems. If you notice that a loved one is misusing their medications or if you're struggling with this yourself, our prescription drug addiction treatment at Banyan Pompano can help.
Inhalants are substances that people usually use only by inhaling, such as solvents, aerosol sprays, gases, and nitrites. Inhalants are various products that can be purchased or found in homes or workplaces, including spray paints, keyboard cleaners, air fresheners, glues, markers, and cleaning fluids. When these substances are used to get high, they're referred to as inhalants. Inhalants contain psychoactive or mind-altering properties that can produce euphoria, hallucinations, lightheadedness, and breathing problems.
In addition to liver damage and failure, inhalants can also cause long-term problems like hearing loss, bone marrow damage, and brain damage. Of their side effects, the most common and concerning is asphyxiation, in which the person doesn't get enough oxygen to the brain, causing coma and permanent damage. Certain inhalants, specifically toluene, are also more harmful to the liver when the person is a heavy drinker.
Heroin is an illegal opioid that's highly harmful and addictive. It's most commonly smoked or injected for the euphoric and sedative side effects it produces. In addition to liver damage, heroin is also known to produce lung disease, insomnia, mental illness, sexual dysfunction, fertility issues, nasal problems, scarred or collapsed veins, soft tissue infection, and more. When a person injects heroin, it enters the liver via the bloodstream. The liver's job is to detoxify these drugs and remove them from the body. Most drugs are fat-soluble, meaning they're difficult to pass through urine. The liver corrects this issue by breaking down these substances and converting them into water-soluble forms so they can be passed through bile or urine. While it's normal for the liver to do this every once in a while, chronic drug use forces the organ to work twice as hard. Therefore, heroin liver damage is the result of chronic drug abuse, which forces the liver to constantly detoxify itself and the body, basically wearing it out.
Cocaine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant that's also highly addictive and damaging to the body. Often made with other cutting agents like fentanyl and paint thinner, crack, or coke is known for causing serious physical damage. Cocaine liver damage is the result of the drug's impact on liver enzyme levels. Cocaine effects on the liver include:
Rhabdomyolysis (leakage of muscle contents into blood circulation)
Moreover, as with any other substance, whenever the liver is constantly flooded with toxins, it's being overworked to the point where it stops functioning properly. Long-term cocaine use also increases a person's chances of cardiovascular disease, overdose, and death. If you're addicted to cocaine, our cocaine rehab can help you regain your health and sobriety before it's too late.
Methamphetamine is another CNS stimulant that's derived from amphetamine. Like cocaine, meth can be smoked, injected, or swallowed. When used, meth increases alertness, energy, and physiological functions like breathing, heart rate, and blood pressure. Long-term meth use is commonly associated with problems like skin disease (meth face) and tooth decay (meth mouth), but it can also severely damage the liver. Crystal meth liver damage is usually the result of hyperthermia or abnormally high body temperature. Hyperthermia is believed to cause oxidative stress and depleting glutathione, which can cause cell and tissue damage as well as affect the liver's ability to break down toxins and detoxify the body. Without the help of meth treatment, those who are dependent on this drug are more likely to suffer from organ failure of all kinds as well as overdose.
Dextromethorphan or DXM is an over-the-counter (OTC) cough suppressant. Robotripping, dexing, and skittling are common names for DMX abuse, which is done to experience a range of physical and psychological side effects. Although DXM is an OTC drug, people who abuse it usually do so by taking dangerously high doses. Not only does constantly flooding the liver with any kind of drug damage it, but OTC drugs often contain acetaminophen as well, which we've already established how damaging it can be to the liver. When used in high doses, DXM can lead to hepatitis and liver toxicity.
13 Warning Signs of Liver Disease
Over time, certain conditions that cause liver damage can lead to scarring (cirrhosis), which can cause liver failure. However, early detection and treatment can give the liver time to heal. Although liver disease isn't always noticeable, some signs and symptoms of liver disease include:
If you're addicted to drugs or alcohol, you're at a higher risk of liver disease, cardiovascular disease, organ failure, and overdose. Fortunately, there are addiction services available at Banyan Treatment Centers Pompano that can help. Call us today at 888-280-4763 for more information about our drug treatment in Pompano Beach and how we can assist you in your recovery.
Home > News & Events > Centers Updates
Centers Updates
Reminder: Spring 2008 Cancer Centers Directors Retreat
This is a reminder that the next Cancer Center Directors Retreat will be held at the Hyatt Regency in Bethesda on Sunday and Monday, April 27th and 28th, 2008. As in the past, the meeting will begin at approximately 4 p.m. on the first day and adjourn late in the afternoon the following day. Additional information on meeting logistics and agenda will be forwarded at a later date. —posted 10/15/2007
Use of NCI Logo
The National Cancer Institute (NCI) logo (Figure 1) is a registered trademark that distinctly identifies the NCI. Entities other than the NCI, the National Institutes of Health, or the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services must receive formal approval prior to its use on web sites or in written materials. Unauthorized use of the NCI logo may constitute trademark infringement, as it may suggest NCI sponsorship or endorsement of the policies, products, and services of other institutions.
At present, only the NCI–designated Comprehensive Cancer Center logo (Figure 2) is approved for use by cancer centers that have earned the comprehensive designation through the peer review process.
Any NCI–designated Cancer Center currently using the NCI logo should remove it from all websites and printed materials. The phrase, "National Cancer Institute–designated Cancer Center" may be substituted in place of the NCI logo graphic.
If you have further questions or concerns regarding the use of the NCI logo, please contact:
Donna P. Bonner, MSPM
Telephone: (301) 496–4394
Email:bonnerd@mail.nih.gov —posted 9/14/2007
Fiscal Year 07 Funding Memo
This memo is to advise you that, in accordance with NIH policy, Fiscal Year 07 non–competing (T5) P30 awards will be funded at approximately 97.1% of the Fiscal Year 06 level. Administrative extensions at the request of the NCI (e.g., as part of the recycling effort) will be funded at that level, as well.
Funding levels for Fiscal Year 07 competing (T1 and T2) and other types of administrative extensions will be communicated individually to applicants, once finalized.
We'd like to extend our thanks for your patience during this extended budget process.
Please contact your program director if you have questions.
—posted 4/23/2007
Electronic Submission of Summaries 2, 3 and 4
Effective January 5, 2007, the Cancer Centers Branch is eliminating the requirement for hard copy versions of Summaries 2–4 in Type 5 (non–competing) progress reports. Electronic versions of these summaries must still be submitted to our office so that they may be uploaded into the NCI official application file for your center. Summaries 1 a, b, c, and d should continue to be submitted in both hard copy and electronic format.
Please note that this change affects non–competing T5 applications only. Competing Type 2 applications would still require both hard copy and electronic versions of all summaries. If you have any questions about the summaries or their format, please call (301) 496–8531.
—posted 1/5/2007
New P30 Receipt Dates
Please note that, as per the NIH Guide Notice, standing receipt dates for P30 CCSG applications will change effective January 1, 2007. The new receipt dates will be January 25, May 25, and September 25. Inquiries regarding this policy should be directed to the contact office noted in the announcement. —posted 10/10/2006
Special Session on Assessment of Response to Therapy via Imaging Techniques
In 2005, the NCI Cancer Imaging Program and Cancer Centers Branch announced 8 Cancer Centers as awardees of supplements for Imaging Response Assessment Teams (IRATs). A first meeting of awardees, part of which will be open to other interested Center faculty, will be held in March in Orlando in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Academy for Medical Imaging.
As a reminder, the concept of the IRATs grew out of discussions between the Association of American Cancer Institutes and the NCI. IRAT supplemental awards are intended to facilitate the development of a Cancer Center core that will advance the role of imaging in assessment of response to therapy and increase the application of quantitative, anatomic, functional, and molecular imaging endpoints in clinical therapeutic trials. Integration of IRAT team members into the protocol planning process and increasing clinical collaborations between imaging scientists and oncologic investigators is also a goal. When the three year supplemental funding ends, each Center should have a committed shared resource.
The IRAT Network—the IRAT leaders and NCI leaders—and their collaborators will convene for their first workshop, March 24–25, 2006, in Orlando. The workshop will be an affiliate event of the Academy of Molecular Imaging's (AMI) annual conference at the Gaylord Palms Resort and Convention Center, March 25–29. The IRAT workshop will include a special session, Saturday, March 25, 12:00 to 2:00 p.m., that will be open to the greater scientific and cancer center communities interested in and currently working on issues related to the assessment of response to therapy via imaging techniques, and we are encouraging interested scientists from all centers to attend.
Information about the AMI conference may be accessed through their website at http://www.ami-imaging.org/conference2006/index.htm. For further information about the workshop, please contact Maureen Pfeifer at Maureen@aaci–cancer.org or (412) 647–6331.
—posted 3/1/2006
The University of New Mexico Cancer Research and Treatment Center Receives NCI Designation
The University of New Mexico Cancer Research and Treatment Center (UNM CRTC) was awarded the NCI designation in September of 2005, making it our 61st cancer center. Dr. Cheryl Willman is the Director of the Center, which is the only NCI–designated cancer center in the state of New Mexico. The Center was previously funded by a five–year NCI P20 Cancer Center Planning Grant. The 91 members of the UNM CRTC are clustered into 4 research programs that include Cancer epidemiology and Prevention, Cancer Biology, Hematologic Malignancies, and Women's Cancers. Research goals of the Center are focused on New Mexico's unique ethnic diversity and significant economic and medical disparities, and the opportunities presented by their unique partnerships. —posted 9/1/2005
From Brussels to Beirut - YEU policy update and representation - YEU International
Home » Publications » Newsmail » News » From Brussels to Beirut - YEU policy update and representation
As it is vital to share important publications and policy information, please take a look on a set of interesting material related to Youth.
Taking the Youth for Democracy Program Forward (article - set of recommendations);
Learning Mobility, social Inlusion and non-formal education. Access, processes and Outcomes (book);
Shadow Report on the Mid-Term Evaluation of Erasmus+ Youth Chapter (publication)
Committee on Cultrure and Education (CULT) on the implementation of the post-2018 European Union Youth Strategy (draft report).
Take a look at activities that YEU was part extending from Brussels (Belgium) to Beirut (Lebanon).
European Qualification Framework (EQF)- 10th Anniversary:
On 15-16 March the European Commission organised the 10th anniversary Conference of the European Qualifications Framework. Panagiotis Chazimichail took part representating YEU, following up on the relation of the EQF and Validation of Non Formal and Informal Learning (VNFIL). The main theme of the conference was how to support learning, work and cross-border mobility bringing together over 400 participants. YEU was together with LLLP and other members of the Platform like EAEA, EUCEN, SOLIDAR, ESU and EfVET.
"Is perception of migrants shaping mainstream policies in Europe?":
On the 27th of March 2018, Paco - YEU intern, joing the open debate "Is perception of migrants shaping mainstream policies in Europe?" which took place at the European Parliament. The debate covered the topic of migration in Europe and how media treats them.
The process was separated in three sections:
- New forms of european citizenship in migration area;
- Experiences about media and fake news in our our society, in relation to "Refugees";
- Role of the media and journalists in our society
"Arab Youth Advocating for Gender Equality and Women's Rights" UNESCO Regional Training:
From 27th to 29th of March, YEU was present in the workshop organised by Regional Unesco Office in Beirut. The UNESCO Regional Training "Arab Youth Advocating for Gender Equality and Women's Rights" focused on building capacities and partnerships which can benefit both Civil Society Organisations and local communities. Through this 3 days workshop, Panagiotis Chatzimichail and other participants had an opportunity to learn about previous processes, campaings and adovcacy on the issue of Gender Based Violence.
Data Availability StatementAll relevant data are within the manuscript and its Supporting Information files – JNK Signaling: Regulation and Functions
Data Availability StatementAll relevant data are within the manuscript and its Supporting Information files
Data Availability StatementAll relevant data are within the manuscript and its Supporting Information files. their suckers, metabolites, and excretory-secretory products (ESP) [3]. Regional irritation as well as the systemic immune system response within the web host [4C7] generate reactive air reactive and types nitrogen substances, which may trigger DNA damage, resulting in neoplasms [8, 9]. are in a better threat of developing inflammation-mediated or NDMA-induced CHCA than uninfected hamsters [11, 12]. Previously, we reported that contact with NDMA as well as the ESP of boosts HEK293T cell proliferation as well as the percentage of cells within the G2/M stage [3]. CHCA is certainly potentially due to increased degrees of proinflammatory cytokines and nuclear aspect kappa B (NFB), which regulate the actions of cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase, and disturb the homeostasis of DNA and oxidants/anti-oxidants fix Nevirapine (Viramune) enzymes [13]. CDC7 ESPs of induce pro-inflammatory replies with the upregulation of TLR4 and its own downstream transduction indicators, including MyD88-reliant IB- degradation and NFB activation [14, 15]. NFB may impact the creation of Cx43 also, a gap-junction proteins, in liver organ cirrhosis [16, 17]. Difference Nevirapine (Viramune) junctions are clusters of transmembrane stations in the cell membrane that permit immediate intercellular exchange of ions, supplementary messengers, and little signaling substances influencing cell development, differentiation, and cancerous adjustments [17C21]. Among difference junction protein, Cx43 is involved with almost all guidelines from the inflammatory response of cells, cytokine creation, and inflammatory cell migration [17, 20, 22]. The significant function of Cx43 in carcinogenesis is certainly highlighted by the actual fact that high degrees of Cx-43 appearance raise the invasion of breasts tumor cells and promote tumors in melanoma [22]. Modifications of Cx appearance have already been reported in cancers [21, 23]. In hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), for example, decreased Cx32 appearance is associated with increased appearance of Cx43, which promotes HCC via cell-to-cell conversation [16, 20, 23]. Fujimoto et al. [23] show that Cx32 includes a suppressive impact in metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Nevertheless, the function of connexins in cancers is certainly questionable [23] still, as well as the impact of difference junctions in CHCA due to has not however been examined. In this scholarly study, to look for the systems root the carcinogenic ramifications of ESP from as well as the carcinogen NDMA. We discovered that the silencing of Cx43 decreased ESP- and NDMA-induced cell proliferation as well as the appearance of Cox-2. Methods Animals The animal experimental protocol was approved and reviewed by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) of Seoul National University Health System, Seoul, Korea (approval no. SNU-060511-1) and followed the National Institutes of Health (NIH) guideline for the care and use of laboratory animals (NIH publication no. 85C23, 1985, revised 1996). The facility is usually accredited by the Ministry of Food and Drug Administration Nevirapine (Viramune) and by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (LNL08-402) as an animal experiment facility. Male SpragueCDawley rats at 6 weeks of age were purchased from Koatech Co. (Seoul, Korea) and housed in an ABL-2 animal facility at Seoul National University College of Medicine. All rats were bred in filter cages under positive pressure according to institutionally approved guidelines. Recovery of metacercariae of were collected by digestion of fish with pepsin-HCl (0.6%) artificial gastric juice for 1 h at 37 C, then filtering the digestion answer through a 200? stainless steel filter. Finally, and metacercariae were isolated under stereomicroscopic identification. Contamination of experimental animals with and collection of ESP SpragueCDawley rats were individually infected orally with 50 metacercariae of as a control (Applied Biosystems, Santa Clara, CA, USA). The levels of RNA expression were calculated using the 2Ct method and individual expression data was normalized to GAPDH. The thermal cycling parameters for reverse transcription were modified according to the Applied Biosystems manual. Hexamer incubation at 25C for 10 min and reverse transcription at 42C for 30 min was followed by reverse transcriptase.
The study on chloroquine, conducted in Brazil, found one-quarter of the patients taking the anti-malaria medication developed potentially deadly changes in the electrical system regulating their heartbeats. While a small and imperfect study, it highlights the compelling need for more rigorous data.
After several weeks, they saw no clear benefits for patients but very clear side effects, including a change in the electrical patterns in some patients' hearts similar to the findings of the Brazilian study. While a patient experiences no symptoms, the shifting patterns show up on an electrocardiogram and are a warning sign of a potentially fatal heart arrhythmia.
2018 Maruti Suzuki Swift gets only 2-star rating in Global NCAP crash test
You are at:Home»News»2018 Maruti Suzuki Swift gets only 2-star rating in Global NCAP crash test
Maruti Suzuki Swift units sold in India comes with fewer safety features like side body and curtain airbags and Electronic Stability Control (ESC) that are standard for Europe-spec Swift, the Global NCAP report adds.
Maruti Suzuki's third generation Swift hatchback that got launched in India in February at Auto Expo 2018 has failed to impress in the new crash test conducted by the global safety watchdog Global New Car Assessment Programme (Global NCAP).
The 2018 Maruti Suzuki Swift fitted with standard double airbags managed to achieve an unimpressive two-star rating in the five-star rating scale.
2018 Maruti Suzuki Swift performing during Global NCAP crash test
Global NCAP crash tested the made-in-India Swift unit at a speed of 64kmph. It received only two stars in both Adult Occupant Protection and Child Occupant Protection. The reports claim the poor result for adult occupants is due to high compression to the driver's chest, unstable structure and poor protection for the feet explained by pedal displacement on the driver side.
Meanwhile, the two-star rating for Child Occupant Protection is explained by the forward facing positioning of the 18-month-old dummy in the test offering low protection and also the low protection offered to the chest of the 3-year-old dummy.
Maruti Suzuki launched third generation Swift at Auto Expo 2018 in FebruaryIBT Media/ Ken Sunny
Global NCAP report further claims the Swift units sold in India underperformed in the frontal crash test compared the to the European-spec Swift versions. The India-spec Swifts are also offered less safety features like side body and curtain airbags and Electronic Stability Control (ESC) that are standard for Europe-spec Swift.
The unimpressive result comes just days after Maruti Suzuki's compact SUV Vitara Brezza achieved four out of five stars in a crash test conducted by Global NCAP. The Vitara Brezza with standard double airbags, ABS, and ISOFIX anchorages, achieved four stars for adult occupant protection and two stars for child occupant protection.
Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza performing while Global NCAP crash test
"Maruti Suzuki proved with the Brezza that they can produce locally models with high safety performance. They should do the same with the Swift and at least make it available in the model range added safety features available as standard in the European and Japanese version," said Alejandro Furas, Technical Director of Global NCAP.
Three Sleep Apnea Myths Busted | San Francisco | Marin | Oakland CA
Glen Park Dental > Educate > Sleep > Three Sleep Apnea Myths Busted
Three Sleep Apnea Myths Busted
Sleep apnea in San Francisco can be a serious detriment to your health. There are millions of people in the United States that suffer from this sleep breathing disorder, yet many are totally unaware that they have it. However, there certainly are some myths about sleep apnea that just aren't true. Your San Francisco sleep apnea dentists at Glen Park Dental are here to debunk these myths!
Myth #1: Sleep apnea is no big deal
Snoring is the major warning sign of sleep apnea. While snoring may not seem like a big deal, it actually is harmful to your health. Obstructive sleep apnea means that the airway is either partially or completely blocked, which means that your body is not getting enough air. This can increase your risk of heart disease, stroke, or diabetes.
Plus, for children, untreated sleep apnea can hinder their development, and lead to behavioral issues, which may lead to overmedication of ADD or ADHD when instead, a sleep breathing disorder is to blame. Sleep apnea will not go away, and needs treatment by a qualified sleep apnea doctor in the Bay Area.
Myth #2: Sleep apnea only affects overweight people
While the risk of sleep apnea significantly increases for obese individuals, anyone of any age or size, even athletes, can develop this sleep breathing disorder. This is why a sleep apnea screening in the Bay Area is essential for all individuals who snore or who have chronic fatigue, regardless of stature. Parents, you should pay attention to your child as they sleep, and make note if you notice they snore at all. Snoring is not healthy for children, or even adults.
Myth #3: Sleep apnea can be self-diagnosed
Telltale signs of sleep apnea such as snoring and chronic fatigue are often associated with this disorder. However, the only way to truly know whether you suffer from this disorder is to receive a sleep apnea test in San Francisco from the doctors at Glen Park Dental. Believe it or not, but your dentist is one of the most qualified individuals to diagnose and treat sleep apnea.
Keep in mind that sometimes people with sleep apnea may snore very little or not at all, which is why a screening can be helpful for everyone.
Getting treatment for your sleep apnea may be easier than you think. At Glen Park Dental, we do not use the CPAP machine to treat this sleep breathing disorder. Since many CPAP users get frustrated with their machine and discontinue its use within a few months, this leaves them vulnerable to the health risks associated with the disorder. Therefore, many of our patients experience relief by wearing a custom-made oral appliance that helps to reposition their lower jaw into proper alignment, thus facilitating an open airway while sleeping. This noninvasive means of treating sleep apnea can be comfortable, yet effective.
To learn more about sleep apnea or to seek better treatment than using a CPAP, please contact Glen Park Dental by calling (415) 585-1500 to schedule a consultation.
Princeton Identity implements iris recognition for access control at long term care facility | Biometric Update
Princeton Identity implements iris recognition for access control at long term care facility
Dec 2, 2016, 4:33 pm EST | Stephen Mayhew
Princeton Identity recently implemented an iris recognition solution at a long term care and independent residential/retirement facility in Erie, Pennsylvania to make access control procedures easier and more convenient for residents and staff.
The solution involved adding two IOM (Identity on the Move) Walk-Through Identity systems and six IOM Access Control readers in the personal care building. IOM readers are installed on four sets of doors at two heights – a lower position for those in wheelchairs and a higher position for those who can stand or use crutches or a walker. Once enrolled, users simply glance at the iris reader without having to remove glasses or place their eyes close to the device. Authentication is confirmed in less than a second, and the door can be opened. Because of the system's ease of use and reliable accuracy, the staff at the facility also enrolled in the system. The building's previous access control system was left in place as a back-up.
"This project highlights some of the advantages of iris recognition in healthcare and assisted-living applications," said Mark Clifton, CEO, Princeton Identity. "Many facilities need to support users with a wide range of physical limitations and challenges. Iris recognition is a great fit for these cases because it is fast and easy for users, doesn't require a free hand, and maintains safety and security."
Last month, Princeton Identity was selected to receive the Outstanding Technology Development Company Award for 2016 by the New Jersey Tech Council.
Dietary Glycemic load, added sugars, and carbohydrates as risk factors for pancreatic cancer: the Multiethnic Cohort Study
Nothlings U1,3, Murphy SP1, Wilkens LR1, Henderson BE2, Kolonel LN1. Dietary glycemic load, added sugars, and carbohydrates as risk factors for pancreatic cancer: the Multiethnic Cohort Study. Am J Clin Nutr 2007;86:1495-1501
Background
This article is yet another published in AJCN seeking to establish a link between dietary fructose and increased risk for some metabolic perturbation: pancreatic cancer, in this instance. The authors are from the University of Hawaii1 (Honolulu), the University of Southern California2 (Los Angeles) and the German Institute of Human Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbruecke3 (Nuthetal). They are active cancer researchers and appear to be seeking causative factors for pancreatic cancer.
Hypothesis
The authors begin with the hypothesis that a high dietary glycemic load (GL) is positively associated with the risk of pancreatic cancer. GL is the product of [the experimentally measured serum glucose response after consumption of a specific food or ingredient (glycemic index, GI)] x [the carbohydrate content of the food or ingredient]. GL is now thought by nutritionists to be a better predictor of serum insulin response than GI alone.
The authors justify their hypothesis by citing previous studies suggesting that glucose metabolism plays a role in the development of pancreatic cancer. In this study, GL and carbohydrate intakes were mathematically derived from the amounts and types of foods consumed by participants as reported in an extensive self-administered questionnaire.
Author Conclusions
High sugar intake — fructose intake, specifically — was associated with a greater risk of pancreatic cancer.
The purported association between fructose and weight gain is not appropriate, since HFCS has largely supplanted sucrose on a 1-for-1 basis, resulting in no net gain of fructose in the diet relative to other nutrients (9).
Pancreatic cancer risk increased with higher intakes of total sugars, fructose and sucrose.
The association between fructose and increased pancreatic cancer risk became significant when the highest and lowest fructose consumers were compared.
The association between fruit and juice intakes and pancreatic cancer risk was significant.
The association between caloric soda intake and pancreatic cancer risk was not significant.
Sucrose (sugar) intake was associated with increased BMI (body mass index) for overweight and obese, but not normal-weight, subjects when the highest and lowest consumers were compared.
Critique
It seems rather implausible that fructose, but not added sugars (half fructose), would be associated with increased risk of pancreatic cancer. The solution to this inconsistency may be the unconventional use of terminology by the authors: ‘added sugars’ is here applied to spoonfuls of sugar added to foods, while the term is commonly used in nutrition circles to mean all dietary nutritive sweeteners not intrinsically present in foods and beverages.
It seems even more implausible that fruits and juices, but not caloric sodas (half fructose), would be associated with increased risk of pancreatic cancer, since both share similar compositions. The solution to this inconsistency may lie in the amounts consumed: the authors claim that study participants derived more fructose from fruits and juices than from other dietary sources, including caloric soft drinks. Since the data are inexplicably absent, we are forced to accept their explanation. Would the authors advise that the public cut back on fruit consumption? Surely such advice is counterintuitive and ill-considered.
Though the authors hypothesize that high dietary GL is associated with the risk of pancreatic cancer, they do not report dietary glucose intakes. This seems a glaring oversight since glucose is accepted to be the most insulinogenic component in the diet and is accordingly given a GI value of 100, the standard against which others compounds are compared. Pure glucose also has the highest GL. By comparison, fructose has a GI of about 20.
Since glucose and fructose are equally present and track together in nutritive sweeteners (except pure fructose, pure glucose and corn syrups), fruits/juices and caloric soft drinks, any calculation of fructose intake from dietary questionnaires should yield roughly equivalent intake figures for glucose.
When glucose from other dietary sources is added (cereal grains; starch, maltodextrin, corn syrup and glucose ingredients), the intake of glucose is clearly higher than fructose. Forshee et.al. (1) estimated the ratio of fructose-to-glucose at 0.7, a ratio that did not change with the advent of high fructose corn syrup (HFCS).
Despite the authors’ conclusion that GL is not associated with increased risk of pancreatic cancer, parallel glucose-fructose tracking must cast doubt on the uniqueness of the conclusion that fructose intake is associated with greater risk of pancreatic cancer — this conclusion can and should be extended to glucose as well.
Fructose intakes calculated for participants in the Multiethnic Cohort Study were 4-6% of calories (Table 1, p.1497). These intakes are considerably lower than previous estimates for the general population: Park & Yetley in 1993 estimated fructose intakes at 8% of calories for the whole population (2). More recent estimates have placed fructose intake as high as 12 to nearly 20% of calories. The solution to this inconsistency may also lie with the terminology used: Park & Yetley summed fructose from all dietary sources — both free fructose and that from sucrose — while these authors seem to be reporting free fructose separately from sucrose and added sugars (tabletop). Clearly, Park & Yetley’s approach is the correct one.
In summary, the authors failed to prove the original hypothesis that GL is positively associated with increased risk of pancreatic cancer. They appear to have turned to fructose as an alternative in an effort to salvage a result from their rather disjointed, inconsistent and incomprehensible data.
References
Forshee R, Storey M, Allison D, et al. A critical examination of the evidence relating high fructose corn syrup and weight gain. Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition 2007;47:561-582.
Park YK, Yetley EA. Intakes and food sources of fructose in the United States. Am J Clin Nutr 1993;58:737S-747S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Overweight and Obesity Trends among Adults. 2007.
Sun SZ, Empie MW. Lack of findings for the association between obesity risk and usual sugar-sweetened beverage consumption in adults – A primary analysis of databases of CSFII-1989-1991, CSFII-1994-1998, NHANES III, and combined NHANES 1999-2002. Food Chem Toxicol 2007.
Riby JE, Fujisawa T, Kretchmer N. Fructose absorption. Am J Clin Nutr 1993;58:748S-753S.
Swanson JE, Laine DC, Thomas W, Bantle JP. Metabolic effects of dietary fructose in healthy subjects. Am J Clin Nutr 1992;55:851-6.
Drewnowski A, Bellisle F. Liquid calories, sugar, and body weight. Am J Clin Nutr 2007;85:651-661.
Perrigue M, Drewnowski A. Hunger and satiety profiles and energy intakes following the ingestion of soft drinks sweetened with sucrose or high fructose corn syrup (HFCS). Program Abstract #LB433. Experimental Biology. San Francisco, 2006.
Hanover LM, White JS. Manufacturing, composition, and applications of fructose. Am J Clin Nutr 1993;58:724S-732S.
Havel PJ. Dietary fructose: implications for dysregulation of energy homeostasis and lipid/carbohydrate metabolism. Nutr Rev 2005;63:133-57.
Zuckley L, Rippe JM. The effect of high fructose corn syrup on post-prandial
lipedemia in normal weight females. Annual Meeting of the Endocrine Society,
Program Abstract #P2-46, 2007.
Fructose, but not dextrose, accelerates the progression of chronic kidney disease.
Calorie Control Council Response to Lê et al
Featured Articles
Consumer Information
Research
Healthcare
Research Topics
Body Weight
Brain & Cognition
Diabetes
Gout / Uric Acid
Gut Health
Heart Health
Kidney Health
Liver Health
Other
Performance Athletes
What is Fructose? and Facts about Fructose Brochures are available for your benefit. Download today.
果糖知识手册
Faits sur le Fructose
Datos sobre el catálogo de Fructosa
Informationen über Fruktose
Archives
Terms and Conditions of Use
Privacy Policy
© Copyright 2019 Calorie Control Council
This website is designed primarily as an educational resource. It is not intended to provide medical advice on personal health matters or to guide treatment — which is only appropriately done by a qualified health professional. Permission to reprint information in whole or in part contained on this site is granted, provided customary credit is given.
The Calorie Control Council, a non-profit association established in 1966, seeks to provide an objective channel of scientific-based communications about low-calorie foods and beverages, to assure that scientific and consumer research and information is made available to all interested parties.
Psychiatrist - Kingswood Hospital | Henry Ford Kingswood Psychiatric Hospital | Physician Jobs | PracticeMatch.com | 531718
Psychiatrist - Kingswood Hospital
Facility: Henry Ford Kingswood Psychiatric Hospital
Address: 10300 West Eight Mile Rd
The Henry Ford Health System's Department of Psychiatry is seeking American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology certified/eligible adult psychiatrists for full time positions at Henry Ford Kingswood in Ferndale, Michigan.
Henry Ford Kingswood Hospital, a 100-bed psychiatric hospital in Ferndale, has been serving the community for more than 40 years by providing comprehensive inpatient psychiatric treatment for children, teens and adults with mental health disorders in a warm, professional environment. Our board-certified psychiatrists and therapeutic staff are experienced in diagnosing and treating all types of mental health disease, including anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, psychosis, suicidal thoughts, suicide attempts and psychiatric illness combined with substance use. Treatment is designed to fit the unique needs of each patient and may include individual counseling, DBT, group therapy, family counseling, intensive care management or medication management.
Henry Ford Kingswood Hospital is a leading psychiatric hospital in Michigan. We provide inpatient mental health treatment for children, teens, and adults with behavioral disorders and acute psychiatric conditions best managed in a short hospital stay. Henry Ford psychiatrists at Kingswood Hospital are expert in the diagnosis and treatment of all types of mental health disease, including anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, psychosis, suicide thoughts or attempts, as well as patients with a dual diagnosis of psychiatric illness combined with substance use. Special features of our 100-bed psychiatric hospital located in Ferndale, Michigan, include:
24/7 Psychiatric Admission
We accept patients for admission to Henry Ford Kingswood Hospital 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, every day of the year.
Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Treatment Program
Henry Ford Kingswood Hospital offers a specialized psychiatric treatment program for children and adolescents. Our 24-bed pediatric unit, redesigned in 2011, provides a safe, supervised environment. All units are locked for the safety of every patient at Kingswood Hospital.
Multidisciplinary Psychiatric Treatment Team
Kingswood Hospital provides specialized care teams for pediatrics and for adults. The multidisciplinary teams include psychiatrists, psychologists, nurses, social workers, occupational therapists, recreational therapists, and others. Each team meets to develop and discuss patient treatment plans to provide the safest, highest quality care to every patient.
Personalized Behavioral Health Treatment Plan
Each patient at Kingswood Hospital receives a personalized treatment plan based on age, diagnosis, current status, and other factors.
Our expert psychiatric treatment teams provide comprehensive mental health treatment services including individual counseling, group therapy, family counseling, intensive case management, medications, as well as access to special procedures such as electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). We work closely with the patient's outpatient behavioral health team at Henry Ford Health System or elsewhere to assure a safe and healthy transition from the inpatient to outpatient therapy setting.
