Is your dog really sterile? Does he have a diagnosis of aspermia (no sperm)? Did the veterinarian check him for retrograde ejaculation? Were hormone studies done?
Just because your dog has no ejaculate at all, or no sperm in his ejaculate, he may not be totally and finally sterile. The first condition you should check for is retrograde ejaculation. After attempting to collect the dog that won't produce anything, take him out to urinate, and collect the urine. If there are sperm in the urine, the condition is known as retrograde ejaculation. It is often possible to treat this condition. In our clinic, we have excellent success in returning these dogs to normal fertility. The blockage that causes the retrograde ejaculation is generally associated with the prostate gland, and a result of infection. Never accept a diagnosis of permanent infertility in such a dog as final until treatment has been attempted.
If your dog produces plenty of fluid, but no sperm - aspermia - he may have a testicular tumor. Dogs rarely have the highly malignant type of tumor that Lance Armstrong had. Generally, testicular tumors in dogs are benign. Through careful palpation, ultrasonography and hormone studies, a proper diagnosis of such a tumor can be made. These benign tumors are usually in only one testicle. If this is the case, the affected testicle can be removed, and the other one will resume normal sperm production.
Uma “polipílula” é uma pílula que contém uma combinação de vários medicamentos que são frequentemente usados ​​para tratar doenças cardíacas e pressão alta. Crédito: Universidade McMaster
Os principais especialistas em cardiologistas acreditam que as polipílulas podem evitar milhões de mortes prematuras, ataques cardíacos e derrames.
De acordo com dois importantes cardiologistas em um comentário publicado na
“This systemic failure is a global tragedy, as many premature deaths from CVD could be avoided,” says Professor Salim Yusuf, Executive Director of the Population Health Research Institute (PHRI) and Professor Emeritus of Medicine at McMaster University.
Every year, about 54 million individuals suffer from cardiovascular disease; one-third of them die as a result of CVD, with 80 percent of them residing in low- and middle-income countries.
Most heart attacks and strokes occur in patients who have never had CVD, implying that primary prevention of the first heart attack or stroke is important. Secondary prevention is also important for individuals who already have CVD, although it does not have the same impact.
“The current strategy for primary and secondary prevention of CVD has only been modestly successful in most countries, including high-income countries. Even in these countries, fewer than half of patients with prior CVD, and fewer than 20% without prior CVD, receive effective preventive treatments,” says Professor Yusuf.
The polypill, also known as fixed-dose combination (FDC) therapy – with the combination of blood pressure lowering agents, a statin for lowering LDL cholesterol, and low-dose aspirin – was proposed in the early 2000s as a means to reduce CVD substantially and at low cost.
“The answer is now clear and resounding, with data from three independent, large, and long-term trials in primary prevention and one in secondary prevention showing its life-saving significance,” says Yusuf, whose various publications have shown that heart attacks and strokes were cut by 35 to 50 percent by using a polypill.
“It is time to use the polypill widely to save millions of lives each year,” says Professor Pinto. He and Professor Yusuf recommend the following new strategies:
Encourage large pharmaceutical companies to invest in developing and testing polypills – in particular, newer polypills with larger blood pressure lower effects (such as combining low doses of 3 or 4 classes of drugs with statins and low doses of aspirin). Manufacturing with generic components, and marketing polypills at locally sensitive prices, would ensure affordability while maintaining profitability for the companies, thereby enhancing use by the majority of people around the world.
Include polypills in the WHO’s Essential Medicines List, and in guidelines for both primary and secondary prevention of CVD is an important next step. “This would encourage governments and insurance companies, especially in low-income and middle-income countries to include in their formularies, and clinicians to recommend its use,” Pinto and Yusuf write.
Combine the polypill with lifestyle advice for CVD prevention delivered by trained non-physician health workers (NPHWs) – not meant as a replacement for physicians who can use their advanced skills on managing individuals with more complex conditions – thus a combined strategy that would help many more people.
Reference: “The polypill: from concept and evidence to implementation” by Salim Yusuf and Fausto J Pinto, 12 October 2022, The Lancet.
DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(22)01847-5
Categories Health Post navigation
Laura Poitras ‘Toda a beleza e o derramamento de sangue escavam Nan Goldin
Homens armados palestinos apreendem corpo de adolescente druso israelense de hospital em Jenin, exigindo troca de corpos
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Procurar
Procurar
Postagens recentes
Dentro de uma casa moderna impressionante que fica no topo de Beverly Hills
Aliados da Ucrânia estão deixando a Rússia fora de perigo
Dias mais curtos afetam o humor de milhões de americanos – um neurocientista nutricional oferece dicas sobre como evitar a melancolia do inverno
Detect Stomach Cancer in Two Hours With This Test - Step To Health
It is important to detect stomach cancer as soon as possible and this technique can do so in 2 hours, from merely a blood sample.
Stomach cancer is the fifth most common malignant tumor in the world. Although experts don't know what causes this type of cancer, they know that the key to fighting it effectively is being able to detect stomach cancer in the early stages.
You might like: How Black Lines on Your Nails May Signal Cancer
The most complex thing about stomach cancer is that patients often initially demonstrate symptoms that they interpret as part of ordinary life. Such symptoms include: feeling full, feeling heaviness in the stomach and poor digestion.
However, this type of cancer reaches an advanced stage once the patient has experienced inexplicable weight loss or when blood appears in their feces. At this stage, they need more aggressive techniques to fight against the cancerous cells.
In May this year, a group of young doctors from Mexico, Greece, and Chile created a biomarker that can help detect stomach cancer in its early stages.
This technique only requires a blood test and a two-hour wait to diagnose a patient in the early stages of stomach cancer. Additionally, this is something that will obviously increase the life expectancy of affected patients.
The Need to Detect Stomach Cancer Early
Luckily, stomach cancer isn't as common or as aggressive as lung cancer. However, each year one million people are diagnosed with stomach cancer.
If this illness is diagnosed in its advanced stages, then fighting against it will be more difficult.
This type of tumor is especially common in countries located in the Pacific. Furthermore, stomach cancer is often associated with tobacco. However, another factor that should be taken into account as a cause of this condition is Helicobacter pylori bacteria.
Despite being present in the stomach lining of many people, this bacteria, when combined with other factors, can then lead to the creation of cancerous cells. Helicobacter pylori is always a precursor of this type of cancer when a person has a specific gene: cagA, which is associated with cytotoxicity.
Therefore, we can conclude that the probability of suffering from stomach cancer is due to a combination of our lifestyle, the food we eat, our genetics and also the presence of different environmental toxins.
Stomach cancer is something very difficult to prevent. However, experts say that the survival rate of this type of cancer is 90% if diagnosed in its early stages.
This is why the recent developments that help detect stomach cancer in its early stages are great news.
The study and the development of this biomarker is the result of a three-year project carried out by the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF).
Several drops of blood could save lives
A new way to detect stomach cancer is long overdue.
This is because specialists currently diagnose patients who show symptoms of possibly suffering from this condition during appointments where patients have to wait a long time for the results.
Moreover, during these appointments, specialists often conduct other complex procedures that are equally invasive and expensive.
Something as simple as adding this biomarker to a routine blood test could lead to early diagnosis of stomach cancer. This diagnosis could occur even before the patient has any negative symptoms.
A machine called a Miroculus analyzes the patient's blood sample. This machine has the ability to identify the molecules associated with cancer in the patient's blood.
Furthermore, the Miroculus can give a diagnosis in only two hours. This machine is simple, safe and efficient. Hopefully, the machine will be available in other countries by 2018.
In light of this great news, many specialists hope to add some improvements. This machine could also detect other types of cancer and illnesses in the near future.
Inexpensive Diagnoses in the Near Future
All in all, this biomarker and machine make for an inexpensive way to diagnose cancer. It could also lower the cost of other tests.
Moreover, it offers an earlier and more efficient diagnosis. However, as we've pointed out already, it won't be available until 2018.
We can't emphasize enough how important it is to visit your doctor if you experience a negative change in your body. This helps detect stomach cancer and other illnesses earlier and may save your life.
bacteriabloodcancerdiagnosismedicinestomachtumor
Ryu, J. W., Kim, H. J., Lee, Y. S., Myong, N. H., Hwang, C. H., Lee, G. S., & Yom, H. C. (2003). The proteomics approach to find biomarkers in gastric cancer. Journal of Korean medical science, 18(4), 505.
Jang, J. S. J., Cho, H. Y., Lee, Y. J., Ha, W. S., & Kim, H. W. (2004). The differential proteome profile of stomach cancer: identification of the biomarker candidates. Oncology Research Featuring Preclinical and Clinical Cancer Therapeutics, 14(10), 491-499.
Reis, C. A., Osorio, H., Silva, L., Gomes, C., & David, L. (2010). Alterations in glycosylation as biomarkers for cancer detection. Journal of clinical pathology, 63(4), 322-329.
Effect of inspiratory muscle training with load compared with sham training on blood pressure in individuals with hypertension: study protocol of a double-blind randomized clinical trial | Trials | Full Text
Simone Regina Posser1,
Carine Cristina Callegaro2,
Marina Beltrami-Moreira1 &
Leila Beltrami Moreira1,3
Trials volume 17, Article number: 382 (2016) Cite this article
Hypertension is a complex chronic condition characterized by elevated arterial blood pressure. Management of hypertension includes non-pharmacologic strategies, which may include techniques that effectively reduce autonomic sympathetic activity. Respiratory exercises improve autonomic control over cardiovascular system and attenuate muscle metaboreflex. Because of these effects, respiratory exercises may be useful to lower blood pressure in subjects with hypertension.
This randomized, double-blind clinical trial will test the efficacy of inspiratory muscle training in reducing blood pressure in adults with essential hypertension. Subjects are randomly allocated to intervention or control groups. Intervention consists of inspiratory muscle training loaded with 40 % of maximum inspiratory pressure, readjusted weekly. Control sham intervention consists of unloaded exercises. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures are co-primary endpoint measures assessed with 24 h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Secondary outcome measures include cardiovascular autonomic control, inspiratory muscle metaboreflex, cardiopulmonary capacity, and inspiratory muscle strength and endurance.
Previously published work suggests that inspiratory muscle training reduces blood pressure in persons with hypertension, but the effectiveness of this intervention is yet to be established. We propose an adequately sized randomized clinical trial to test this hypothesis rigorously. If an effect is found, this study will allow for the investigation of putative mechanisms to mediate this effect, including autonomic cardiovascular control and metaboreflex.
ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02275377. Registered on 30 September 2014.
Essential hypertension is a multifactorial disease characterized by chronically elevated systolic blood pressure (≥140 mmHg) or diastolic blood pressure (≥90 mmHg) [1–4]. Hypertension is a major risk factor for target-organ dysfunction, cardiovascular disease, and premature mortality [3, 4]. The prevalence of hypertension in Brazil has been decreasing over the past three decades, but 30 % of persons over 18 years of age still bear this condition [5].
The autonomic nervous system is a major determinant of systemic blood pressure and it might be a therapeutic target in hypertension [6, 7]. Hyperactivity of the sympathetic nervous system plays a role in abnormal elevations of blood pressure [6–8]. Blood pressure variability is increased in hypertensive persons. This phenomenon has been linked to desensitization of baroreceptors, leading to an anomalous autonomic response [9, 10]. Beta-adrenergic receptor blockers are an example of an effective pharmacologic approach to target the autonomic nervous system in hypertension [11].
Respiratory exercises are a non-pharmacologic intervention that might modulate autonomic nervous system activity and reduce blood pressure [12, 13]. An exercise composed of controlled respiratory patterns with a slow respiratory rate has improved autonomic control and reduced blood pressure in hypertensive subjects [12]. Inspiratory muscle training – a different modality of respiratory exercise – was tested in one randomized clinical trial that included 13 participants [13]; in this study, inspiratory muscle training reduced 24 h systolic blood and diastolic blood pressure by 7.9 and 5.5 mmHg, respectively, and also improved autonomic cardiovascular control. Respiratory muscle training might also have reduced sympathetic activity through attenuation of muscle metaboreflex [14, 15].
This study aims to test the efficacy of inspiratory muscle training in reducing blood pressure in subjects with essential hypertension. It will further investigate the effects of this intervention on inspiratory metaboreflex – a putative mechanism for blood pressure reduction. The conceptual hypothesis is that inspiratory muscle training reduces mean 24 h blood pressure through modulation of sympathetic nervous system activity and muscle metaboreflex.
This is a double-blind, parallel-group, sham-controlled randomized clinical trial. Participants are randomly assigned to receive inspiratory muscle training with a load equivalent to 40 % of maximum inspiratory pressure or inspiratory muscle training sham (no load) for 8 weeks. The study flowchart is depicted in Fig. 1. Participants are followed on weekly visits. Study outcomes are assessed at the end of the eighth week. The study timeline is summarized in Additional file 1: Figure S1, where detailed information on methods of assessment and protocols can be found.
Study flow diagram. BP blood pressure, ABPM ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, MIP maximum inspiratory pressure; R randomization
Participants will be recruited from patients receiving follow-up care at the hypertension clinic or the primary health care center at the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, a tertiary, university-affiliated teaching hospital. Public announcements (radio, newspapers, and website) will also call for volunteers among residents of the city of Porto Alegre.
The study includes both male and female subjects, aged ≥35 and <65 years, previously diagnosed with essential hypertension, with a systolic blood pressure ≥140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure ≥90 mmHg. Subjects receiving no pharmacologic therapy or taking only a thiazide diuretic are eligible to enter the study. Participants must have body mass index <30 kg/m2 [16], practice <150 min of moderate or intense physical activity per week, according to the International Physical Activity Questionnaire [17, 18], and have inspiratory muscle strength ≥70 % of predicted [19].
Participants are excluded from the study if they have: office blood pressure ≥160/100 mmHg; severe dyspnea; diabetes mellitus; orthopedic, musculoskeletal, or neurologic limitations; significant cognitive impairment; a current or past history of deep venous thrombosis; a history of myocardial infarction or stroke in the previous 6 months; congestive heart failure; unstable angina; or pulmonary disease of any etiology (including asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease); or if they are active smokers. Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding are excluded from this study. Subjects are not eligible if they participated in another clinical trial in the previous 30 days, or if there is any other condition that might impair their ability to participate in the study or follow the protocol, at the discretion of the recruiter.
Participants are also directed not to change pharmacologic or non-pharmacologic treatment for hypertension (including changes in prescription or changes in the of level physical activity) during their participation in this study.
The co-primary outcomes measures are changes from baseline to end of study in mean 24 h systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as evaluated by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.
Secondary outcome measures are changes from baseline to end of study in mean daytime systolic and diastolic blood pressure; changes from baseline to end of study in mean nighttime systolic and diastolic blood pressure; heart rate variability; systolic blood pressure variability; aerobic capacity; inspiratory metaboreflex; and autonomic control.
Randomization, allocation, blinding, and confidentiality
A randomization sequence has been generated using Randomization.org in blocks of four to either group 1 – inspiratory muscle training with 40 % of maximal inspiratory pressure – or group 2 – sham inspiratory muscle training. An independent person not involved in this study possesses the computer-generated randomization sequence. A research assistant not involved in participant assessment obtains the code and sets the load in each device, according to randomization. A black tape hides the loading spring from the participant and from the investigators assessing outcomes.
There are no foreseen circumstances when un-blinding is permissible. When data collection is completed, the person responsible for the randomization list will provide assignment information to the investigators. Patient's forms and other data sources are kept in a locked cabinet. Data are anonymized when entered into the database to protect confidentiality. Only investigators formally associated with the project will have access to the final study database.
Studied variables and methods of assessment
Participants are assessed as described in Additional file 1. Briefly, baseline physical activity is quantified using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire long form [20]. Body mass index is calculated as mass (kg) divided by the square of the height (m) and categorized as recommended by the World Health Organization [21]. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is performed with Spacelabs 90207 devices (Redmond, WA, USA). The protocol includes blood pressure measurement every 15 min during the daytime (6 a.m. to 10 p.m.) and every 20 min during the nighttime (10 p.m. to 6 a.m.) [22]. Functional capacity is assessed during exercise through O2 and CO2 expiration fraction in a metabolic system. Maximum oxygen consumption in each breath is recorded in ml/(Kg/min) [23, 24].
Maximum inspiratory and maximum expiratory pressure serve as indicators of inspiratory and expiratory muscle strength, respectively. Maximum inspiratory and maximum expiratory pressure are assessed using a digital pressure manometer (MVD-300, Microhard System, Globalmed, Porto Alegre, Brazil) [25, 26].
Inspiratory muscle endurance is determined using the incremental test proposed by Martyn et al. [27] using the Powerbreathe Plus® system (London, UK). The test is stopped when the subject cannot open the inspiratory valve or desires to stop the test owing to respiratory exhaustion (quantified using the modified Borg scale).
Blood pressure variability, heart rate variability, and the cardiac vagal tone are assessed to evaluate autonomic cardiovascular control. Non-invasive continuous blood pressure curves, heart rate, and electrocardiogram tracing are obtained simultaneously at a frequency of 1000 Hz using a Biopac MP150 (Biopac, California, EUA). Data are registered in a computer with biologic signal conversion capabilities.
The muscle metaboreflex is the adaptive blood flow redistribution from the peripheral circulation into the vascular bed of metabolically active (exercised) muscles [28]. The metaboreflex intensity is inversely related to one's fitness. Inspiratory muscle metaboreflex is assessed by causing diaphragmatic fatigue and detecting peripheral blood flow reduction [28, 29]. Monitored parameters include: oxygen saturation, carbon dioxide partial expiratory tension, mean arterial pressure, and venous occlusion plethysmography. A detailed protocol can be found in Additional file 1.
Participants are extensively instructed on how to perform home-based inspiratory muscle training assisted by a Power Breathe Plus® (London, UK) device. For participants' safety, research staff are responsible for device hygiene before and after the intervention period. To perform the exercise training, subjects should be seated, obstruct the nose with a nasal clip, and breathe in and out through the mouthpiece. The goal is to keep diaphragmatic breathing at 10–15 respirations per minute for a total of 30 min per day, 7 days a week.
Participants receiving active inspiratory muscle training (intervention group) perform the exercises with a load equivalent to 40 % of maximal inspiratory pressure. Those receiving the sham intervention (the control group) follow the same instructions but have no load applied to the respiratory exercises. The sham intervention was chosen as comparator because it is the most similar intervention available. It allows for blinding of investigators and participants, and is not expected to reproduce the effects of loaded exercises.
The complete study protocol consists of 56 daily training sessions completed over 8 weeks. During the scheduled weekly visit to the study center, participants are questioned about possible discomforts associated with the intervention, which may include: headaches, nausea, intense muscle fatigue, muscle cramps, and chest pain. Respiratory muscle strength is then reassessed; inspiratory threshold loading is adjusted accordingly, keeping a 40 % maximum inspiratory load for the intervention group throughout the study. The staff member who receives information about treatment allocation and adjusts the load neither participates in any assessments nor communicates with participants.
Participants in both groups receive a journal to register date, time, duration of training session, and possible symptoms or discomforts associated to the intervention. This serves as a mean to stimulate and estimate adherence to intervention. Adherence to the protocol is also reinforced on weekly follow-up phone calls.
Sample size was estimated based on a small randomized clinical trial on the effect of inspiratory muscle training on blood pressure of hypertensive subjects in Brazil [13]. That study found an 8 mmHg difference in systolic blood pressure between the active treatment and the control group (standard deviation, 10 mmHg). To detect this difference with power of 80 %, and assuming an alpha error of 5 %, the study should include 26 participants per group. We opted for a 20 % inflation of this number to account for loss of follow-up and consent withdrawal – therefore, a total of 60 participants will be included and assigned to either intervention or sham treatment.
Data recorded in printed forms are kept in locked cabinets. Information is entered on Microsoft Excel spreadsheets by one person and reviewed by another. Numeric continuous variables, including blood pressure in the primary outcome measures, will be described as mean ± standard deviation or as median (interquartile range). Comparison between groups will be performed using Student's t test or the Mann–Whitney U test, depending on variable distribution. As a superiority trial, differences in autonomic cardiovascular control and metaboreflex between groups will be tested with two-sided repeated-measures ANOVA. Results will be analyzed as per intention-to-treat. Participants who drop out and do not complete outcome assessment will be compared with those who completed the protocol but their data will be excluded from analysis. Statistical significance will be considered for P < 0.05. All analyses will be performed using PASW Statistics 18® (International Business Machines Corp., New York, NY).
A summary of the main findings in non-technical language will be sent to participants after study completion. Scientific papers written according to the CONSORT recommendations will be submitted for peer-reviewed publication. Study results will also be communicated as abstracts and presentations in local, national, and international scientific meetings.
The effect of inspiratory muscle training on blood pressure in hypertensive individuals is not yet established. A significant reduction in blood pressure was observed in a small randomized clinical trial with six and five subject allocated to intervention and control groups, respectively [13]. Although these findings do not provide enough evidence to support the efficacy of inspiratory muscle training in blood pressure control, they are encouraging. We propose an adequately sized randomized clinical trial to test the hypothesis that inspiratory muscle training reduces blood pressure in persons with hypertension. If the hypothesis is confirmed, this study will also allow for investigation of putative mechanisms mediating such an effect. We will assess the effects of inspiratory muscle training on autonomic cardiovascular control and metaboreflex in subjects with hypertension – data that, to the best of our knowledge, are lacking in the medical literature.
The evaluation of inspiratory muscle metaboreflex is one of the strengths of this study. Inspiratory muscle training attenuated the metaboreflex in healthy subjects [30] and in persons with chronic heart failure [31]. In healthy subjects, decreased inspiratory work through assisted ventilation increases exercise time on a cycle ergometer by 14 % [32]; a similar intervention has been shown to attenuate quadriceps fatigue during exercise [9]. This effect is probably due to inhibition of inspiratory muscle metaboreflex [10].
The effects of inspiratory muscle training deserve to be better understood given the potential to help control blood pressure in hypertensive patients. The results of this study will provide evidence on the effects of inspiratory muscle training on blood pressure, in addition to inspiratory muscle metaboreflex, autonomic cardiovascular control, and other physiologic and metabolic aspects. These data will provide mechanistic insights, as well as useful clinical information for the management of hypertension.
The trial is enrolling participants.
ANOVA, analysis of variance; CONSORT, Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials
Nobre F. Introduction: Brazilian guidelines on hypertension VI. Brazilian Society of Cardiology, Brazilian Society of Hypertension, Brazilian Society of Nephrology. J Bras Nefrol. 2010;32 Suppl 1:iii.
Williams B, Poulter NR, Brown MJ, Davis M, McInnes GT, Potter JF, et al. Guidelines for management of hypertension: report of the fourth working party of the British Hypertension Society, 2004-BHS IV. J Hum Hypertens. 2004;18(3):139–85.
ESH/ESC Task Force for the Management of Arterial Hypertension. 2013 Practice guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension of the European Society of Hypertension (ESH) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). ESH/ESC Task Force for the Management of Arterial Hypertension. J Hypertens. 2013;31(10):1925–38.
Callegaro CC, Moraes RS, Negrao CE, Trombetta IC, Rondon MU, Teixeira MS, et al. Acute water ingestion increases arterial blood pressure in hypertensive and normotensive subjects. J Hum Hypertens. 2007;21(7):564–70.
Rondon MU, Laterza MC, de Matos LD, Trombetta IC, Braga AM, Roveda F, et al. Abnormal muscle metaboreflex control of sympathetic activity in never-treated hypertensive subjects. Am J Hypertens. 2006;19(9):951–7.
Guzzetti S, Piccaluga E, Casati R, Cerutti S, Lombardi F, Pagani M, et al. Sympathetic predominance in essential hypertension: a study employing spectral analysis of heart rate variability. J Hypertens. 1988;6:711–7.
Romer LM, Lovering AT, Haverkamp HC, Pegelow DF, Dempsey JA. Effect of inspiratory muscle work on peripheral fatigue of locomotor muscles in healthy humans. J Physiol. 2006;571(Pt 2):425–39.
Wiysonge CS, Bradley HA, Volmink J, Mayosi BM, Mbewu A, Opie LH. Beta-blockers for hypertension. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;11:CD002003. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD002003.pub4.
Hunt BE, Fahy L, Farquhar WB, Taylor JA. Quantification of mechanical and neural components of vagal baroreflex in humans. Hypertension. 2001;37(6):1362–8.
Ferreira JB, Plentz RDM, Stein C, Casali KR, Arena R, Lago PD. Inspiratory muscle training reduces blood pressure and sympathetic activity in hypertensive patients: a randomized controlled trial. Int J Cardiol. 2013;166(1):61–7.
Witt JD, Guenette JA, Rupert JL, McKenzie DC, Sheel AW. Inspiratory muscle training attenuates the human respiratory muscle metaboreflex. J Physiol. 2007;584(Pt 3):1019–28.
McConnell AK, Lomax M. The influence of inspiratory muscle work history and specific inspiratory muscle training upon human limb muscle fatigue. J Physiol. 2006;577(Pt 1):445–57.
Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Donato KA, Apovian CM, Ard JD, Comuzzie AG, et al. Executive summary: guidelines (2013) for the management of overweight and obesity in adults: A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and The Obesity Society Published by The Obesity Society and American College of Cardiology/ American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Based on a systematic review from the The Obesity Expert Panel, 2013. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2014;22 Suppl 2:S5–39.
Hallal PC, Victora CG, Wells JC, Lima RC. Physical inactivity: prevalence and associated variables in Brazilian adults. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35(11):1894–900.
Hallal PC, Simoes E, Reichert FF, Azevedo MR, Ramos LR, Pratt M, et al. Validity and reliability of the telephone-administered international physical activity questionnaire in Brazil. J Phys Act Health. 2010;7(3):402–9.
Adams MA, Ding D, Sallis JF, Bowles HR, Ainsworth BE, Bergman P, et al. Patterns of neighborhood environment attributes related to physical activity across 11 countries: a latent class analysis. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2013;10:34.
World Health Organization. Body Mass Index – BMI. http://www.euro.who.int/en/health-topics/disease-prevention/nutrition/a-healthy-lifestyle/body-massindex-bmi (2016). Accessed 19 May 2016.
Grupo de Trabalho MAPA, Grupo de Trabalho MRPA. [V Brazilian guidelines for ambulatory monitoring of arterial pressure and III Brazilian guidelines for home monitoring of blood pressure]. J Bras Nefrol. 2011;33(3):365–88.
American Thoracic Society, American College of Chest Physicians. ATS/ACCP Statement on cardiopulmonary exercise testing. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2003;167(2):211–77.
Winkelmann ER, Chiappa GR, Lima CO, Viecili PR, Stein R, Ribeiro JP. Addition of inspiratory muscle training to aerobic training improves cardiorespiratory responses to exercise in patients with heart failure and inspiratory muscle weakness. Am Heart J. 2009;158(5):768. e1–7.
Sobush DC, Dunning 3rd M. Assessing maximal static ventilatory muscle pressures using the 'bugle' dynamometer. Suggestion from the field. Phys Ther. 1984;64(11):1689–90.
Callegaro CC, Taylor JA. Age-related effects of vagotonic atropine on cardiovagal baroreflex gain. Neurobiol Aging. 2012;33(2):368–74.
Martyn JB, Moreno RH, Pare PD, Pardy RL. Measurement of inspiratory muscle performance with incremental threshold loading. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1987;135(4):919–23.
Dempsey JA, Romer L, Rodman J, Miller J, Smith C. Consequences of exercise-induced respiratory muscle work. Respir Physiol Neurobiol. 2006;151(2–3):242–50.
St Croix CM, Morgan BJ, Wetter TJ, Dempsey JA. Fatiguing inspiratory muscle work causes reflex sympathetic activation in humans. J Physiol. 2000;529(Pt 2):493–504.
Callegaro CC, Ribeiro JP, Tan CO, Taylor JA. Attenuated inspiratory muscle metaboreflex in endurance-trained individuals. Resp Physiol Neuro. 2011;177:24–9.
Chiappa GR, Roseguini BT, Vieira PJ, Alves CN, Tavares A, Winkelmann ER, Ferlin EL, Stein R, Ribeiro JP. Inspiratory muscle training improves blood flow to resting and exercising limbs in patients with chronic heart failure. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008;51:1663–71.
Harms CA, Wetter TJ, St Croix CM, Pegelow DF, Dempsey JA. Effects of respiratory muscle work on exercise performance. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2000;89(1):131–8.
This project is funded by the Fundo de Incentivo a Pesquisa (FIPE), at Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre. The funding agency had no role in study design and implementation, and will have no role in data analysis and interpretation, or the decision to publish trial results.
SRP projected the trial protocol, drafted this manuscript, collected data, and will perform data analysis and interpretation. MBM offered suggestions on trial design and data analysis, collaborated in the writing and critical review of this manuscript, and will collaborate in data interpretation. LBM and CCC contributed to protocol development and writing of this manuscript; they will perform data analysis and interpretation, critical revision and final approval of future research communications. All authors read and approved the final version of this manuscript.
SRP, PT, MSc is a PhD student in the Graduate Studies Program in Health Sciences: Cardiology and Cardiovascular Sciences, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS.
CCC, PT, PhD is Professor of Physiotherapy at University of Cruz Alta, Cruz Alta, RS.
MBM, MD, PhD collaborates as a volunteer visiting scholar in this project.
LBM MD, PhD is a cardiologist and Professor of Clinical Pharmacology at Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
Participants will receive a thorough oral and written description of the study goals, intervention, potential risks, and benefits involved, as well as efforts put in place to protect personal and health information. Participants have the opportunity to ask questions, which are answered by the investigator. After information, a consent form is offered for the participant to sign (in Portuguese only, available upon request). It is clarified that participants can withdraw the consent and quit the study at any time. If any medical attention is needed while participants are performing assessments in the research center, immediate medical care will be provided at the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre. The study protocol and its informed consent form have been approved by the Institutional Review Board of Hospital de Clinical de Porto Alegre (protocol number 140405) and is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT2275377). Any protocol amendments are subjected to institutional review board approval and will later be published at ClinicalTrials.gov.
Graduate Studies Program in Health Sciences: Cardiology and Cardiovascular Sciences, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Av. Jerônimo de Ornelas, 721, Porto Alegre, RS, 90040-341, Brazil
Simone Regina Posser, Marina Beltrami-Moreira & Leila Beltrami Moreira
Graduate Program in Integral Attention to Health (PPGAIS- UNICRUZ/UNIJUI). Universidade de Cruz Alta, Rodovia Municipal Jacob Della Méa, Km 5.6, Cruz Alta, RS, 98020-290, Brazil
Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Rua Ramiro Barcelos, 2350, room 943, 90035-903, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil
Simone Regina Posser
Marina Beltrami-Moreira
Correspondence to Leila Beltrami Moreira.
Supplementary material. Methods for assessment of study outcomes and other variables. Figure S1. Schedule of enrollment, intervention, and assessments. Figure S2. Inspiratory muscle metaboreflex induction protocol flowchart. (DOCX 362 kb)
Posser, S.R., Callegaro, C.C., Beltrami-Moreira, M. et al. Effect of inspiratory muscle training with load compared with sham training on blood pressure in individuals with hypertension: study protocol of a double-blind randomized clinical trial. Trials 17, 382 (2016). https://0-doi-org.brum.beds.ac.uk/10.1186/s13063-016-1514-y
Practice of Innovation – Page 10 – "The way we work is our most important innovation." Observations by Curtis R. Carlson
What's a T-shaped person? At conferences on innovation there are often discussions about personality types that make for good innovators. One popular designation is "T-type" or "T-shaped" personalities. There are different definitions for T-types, so there is some confusion about what "T" means. For example, the "T" can stand for thrill seeking. "A personality type that takes risks. Type Ts tend to be extroverted and creative, and crave novel experiences and excitement; they can be positive (entrepreneurs) or negative (sociopaths); mental (Einstein, Galileo) or physical (extreme athletes)." (more…)
What does it take to create a world-changing, disruptive technical innovation? The history and technology behind Siri, the world's first intelligent computer assistant, is described here by Adam Cheyer, one of the founders of Siri, the SRI company bought by Steve Jobs for use on the iPhone-4. Siri added tens of billions of dollars of market value to Apple and profoundly changed the way the world thinks about interacting with computers. (more…)
Innovation is the basis for prosperity and the creation of new jobs but it is also responsible for job destruction and major societal change. One overriding question is whether we will be able to create enough net new jobs going forward? This issue is of great concern across the world. (more…)
The Discipline and Practice of Innovation
Creating a high-value innovation architecture
Innovation is not the result of a lone genius or luck. There are innovative superstars, but most professionals can be successful innovators once they learn how. And, since we all have customers, we should all be creating more value for them. Innovation is a disciplined process based on fundamental concepts from the learning sciences combined with best practices from the world's most successful innovators. (more…)
"Our most important innovation is the way we work"
The New Yorker: Searching for the Perfect Athlete
Since innovation is the primary driver of human progress, activities that speed up or improve innovative success have special importance. There are many inputs that can improve innovative performance, including education, government policy, and investments. But ultimately they impact how we work — how we create value for our customers — how we innovate.
Today's innovative performance is generally poor. It is reminiscent of the terrible manufacturing quality and high cost of products after WW II. But that changed with the pioneering innovations of Deming, Juran, and Ohno and the advent of total quality management (TQM). At first the power of continuous improvement based on fundamental learning and improvement concepts was unappreciated, but over time performance was revolutionized. With TQM, cost and quality have both been transformed, often by hundreds of times compared to the 1950s. Today almost every manufacturing and service enterprise uses some version of TQM. (more…)
Nutrition | Just Health
Dieting is often considered synonymous to deprivation. Most weight loss diet plans work around the principle of cutting calories by reducing portion size and limiting high calorie foods. What if, we could have our plates full, eat to our heart's content and still lose weight? Sounds unreal or a campaign for yet another fad diet…
December 16, 2017 in Health Benefits, Nutrition.
Sticking to a diet plan is difficult. One must learn to deal with the continuous assault of irresistible cravings and be content with a healthy but sluggish loss of a pound at the end of each week. Bring trendy crash diets in the story, with a magical promise of 10 pounds down in 10 days…
May 25, 2017 in Nutrition, Opinion.
Reverse pre diabetes and delay/ prevent the onset of diabetes by following appropriate diet strategies and incorporating healthy life style modifications. Read to know how.
April 25, 2017 in Nutrition.
Have you been feeling totally burnt out and frazzled lately? Are you finding it difficult to shut the persistent, meaningless mental chatter and stay focused? Does stress seem to be creeping in every aspect of your daily life and taking a toll on your performance, health, moods and even relationships? Perhaps, it will help to…
June 1, 2016 in General, Health Benefits, Nutrition.
Be it baked, mashed, fried, roasted or in curries, potatoes seem to find a way into endless recipes and global cuisines effortlessly. The rich and earthy flavor of potato along with a delightfully sweet and comforting taste and an excellent nutrient profile adds to the appeal of these versatile kitchen staples. However in recent times,…
January 14, 2016 in General, Nutrition.
Exams and stress seem to have become synonymous to each other. During the months of Feb and March, both the child and the parent go through tremendous amount of anxiety, stress and nervous tension. Endless comparisons, overpowering peer pressure, child's innate desire to excel and outperform others, along with a dose of parental expectation…
January 5, 2016 in General, Nutrition.
Know the difference between osteo and rheumatoid arthritis and also simple tips to manage the symptoms well.
The Advisory Board serves as advisory to the Director on matters relating to policy for the Centre. The Board is constituted of individuals recommended by the Director of the Centre to the Vice-President (Research and International) of the University.
Associate Professor, Section of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine
The Coalition for Healthy Aging in Manitoba (CHAM) began as a standalone coalition in 2016 to champion the vision outlined in the World Health Organization's (WHO) Global Strategy and Action Plan on Ageing and Health; a vision that includes: creating age-friendly environments; better aligning health and long term care systems to the needs of older people; and, improving monitoring, measurement and research on healthy aging. The WHO recognizes the wisdom of older people and encourages their voice and active participation in realizing the vision outlined in their Global Strategy.
Scientists from the cluster of excellence BIOSS Centre for Biological Signalling Studies at the University of Freiburg and the Freiburg University Medical Center have shown that inhibiting the epigenetic regulator KDM4 might offer a potential novel treatment option for breast cancer patients. They used a newly established cell model that enables scientists to isolate cancer stem cells directly from patient tumor. Using this special culture system, they were able to test potential new cancer drugs. One of these, a novel inhibitor of the epigenetic regulator KDM4, co-developed in the lab of Prof. Schüle, showed promising results. The researchers now published their work in the scientific journal Cancer Research.
Although the prognosis for breast cancer has been steadily improving in the last decades, patients with triple receptor-negative breast cancer form a subgroup who receive a considerably worse prognosis in most cases. Roughly 15 percent of all breast cancer patients have triple receptor-negative breast cancer, which lacks markers for a targeted therapy. In the last few years, a bulk of data pointing to a small population of cells in tumors that maintain tumor growth, are particularly resistant to chemotherapy, are responsible for relapses, and develop metastases. These cells, named cancer stem-like cells, share many characteristics with the body's normal stem cells. Due to their cancer-driving behavior, researchers have been focusing more and more on targeting these cells. However, there are currently only a few models available to study the biology of cancer stem cells.
Scientists from the University of Freiburg's new Center for Translational Cell Research have developed a model that allows scientists to isolate cancer stem cells from tumors obtained from breast cancer patients, thereby making biochemical and molecular analysis much more feasible. Dr. Jochen Maurer and his research group were able to cultivate several cancer stem cell lines from triple receptor-negative breast cancer that are excellent representations of the original tumors they isolated from the patients.
In collaboration with Prof. Dr. Roland Schüle and his team at the Center of Clinical Research of the Freiburg University Medical Center, the scientists were able to test several epigenetic inhibitors that had been newly developed by Schüle and his team on the cancer stem cell model. Epigenetics relates to the regulation of genes without involving changes in the DNA sequence and is regarded as one of the most important issues of the 21st century. It is believed that epigenetics play a huge role in the development and progression of cancer.
Schüle and his team have already conducted well-known studies on the epigenetic regulator LSD1. Now, they have discovered that an inhibitor of the epigenetic regulator KDM4 shows great promise in modulating breast cancer stem cell pathology. They were able to block proliferation of several cancer stem cell lines. In addition, the KDM4 inhibitor induces a change of the molecular make-up of the cancer stem cells and drives them out of stemness. Finally, they were also able to reduce tumor growth in their first in vivo xenograft analysis.
Credit: UTA The University of Texas at Arlington has been awarded a patent for a lubricant composition that can…
Some long-term effects of scoliosis diagnosed at school age | Scoliosis and Spinal Disorders | Full Text
Abnormal arrangement of the body may lead to the development of overload syndrome, nerve roots irritation, pain, ventilator impairment and also worsening of physical fitness [1–3].
Checking how, after years low degree scoliosis impairs breathing, reduces performance and generates back pain was the aim of the study.
Respiratory function, working capacity (PWC170) and pain intensity (Jackson and Moskowitz regimen) were assessed in 39 adults, aged from 19 to 38 years, who were diagnosed in adolescence with low degree scoliosis (10°-28°). Also, 43 controls with no scoliosis in adolescence were examined.
There was no progression of the curvature after the treatment. Spirometric results among scoliotic subjects were slightly lower than in the controls, although it did not show the characteristics of the restrictive type of respiratory disorder, which was found in 5.1% of patients. PWC170 test results were significantly lower (by about 20%) than in controls, and 84.6% subjects reported periodical, occasional of frequent, mostly lumbar pain associated with the work performed. In 12.8% cases pain impeded breathing. In about half of the group pain occurred especially after physical effort and caused limitation of activity, while in other subjects did not affect daily activities.
1) subjects with low degree scoliosis generally do not indicate impairment of lung ventilation with the characteristics of restrictive disorders; 2) adults with settled low degree scoliosis characterized by lack of physical fitness, in the form of reductions in PWC170; 3) the presence of school-age low degree scoliosis predisposes to the occurrence of pain symptoms in adulthood.
Scott’s expertise in music that often animates parades, cartoons and Christmas albums is one of the factors that set him apart from peers that only work in the field of pop music recordings. “It’s a jingle sensibility,” he explains, likening his intuition to that of the people who coin catchy television/radio commercial spots. “I can write a good hook!”
“If I can feel an emotional journey in the music once I’ve completed it, I know I’ve done my job. But once I’ve finished something,” he concludes, “I’m off to the next thing.” Scott Erickson distinguishes himself from songwriters by identifying more with the title “composer for hire.” 90% of the songs he’s written have been placed.
A Unique Summer Outing Near Scottsdale Are you tired of the typical dinner and a movie date nights? Do you want to wow your partner with something pretty unusual? If you’re ready for next-level dating, you need to head to the Phoenix Bat Cave. Located near the Arizona Canal Trail in Paradise Valley, the cave…
Grimy Fun for Everyone at the Mighty Mud Mania For more than four decades, Chaparral Park has hosted a wonderfully dirty, family-friendly summertime event called Mighty Mud Mania. It’s essentially a mud bath, but it’s disguised in the form of obstacle courses designed for specific age groups. You and your entire family can join in on…
Wet Electric A Music Festival Unlike Any Other By the end of April, Arizona residents are ready for summer-type fun, and that includes cooling off at beaches, pools and water parks. If you’re already pulling out swimsuits and suntan lotion, Wet Electric is made for you. The event occurs April 29 at Big Surf Waterpark…
The Arizona Renaissance Festival is just around the corner. Are you the type who cannot get enough eating, drinking and merriment? If this describes your ideal life, you won’t want to miss this year’s Arizona Renaissance Festival. Held every weekend from Feb. 11 to April 2 2017 and located in beautiful Gold Canyon, the festival…
Bring Your Valentine To Scottsdale Arizona The best dates include mouthwatering, delectable food, and a Valentine’s date is no exception. If you and your Valentine want to share a memorable, romantic day that is loaded with goodies, head to the Street Eats Food Truck Fest at the Salt River Fields stadium in Scottsdale. This event…
January through March is often a dull time of year, but that doesn’t mean you have to sit home and stare at the walls. If you’re in the Scottsdale area, you can enjoy a free outdoor concert most Sundays from January to April. The event is called Sunday A’Fair, and it’s essentially a mini-festival of…
Photo Credit Go Stand Up Paddle AZ Staying cool is essential during the summer in Arizona. There are numerous ways to avoid the heat, but stand-up paddle boarding is at the top of the list. Because the sport has gained so much popularity, you’ll find schools and shops around the country that focus on stand-up surfing.…
The Clinical Specialist Pharmacist in theÂ Immune Effector Cell (IEC) program Â­Â­Â­Â­is responsible for providing clinical pharmacy services to patients followed by the IEC program. The pharmacist will work collaboratively with other disciplines to optimize the pharmaceutical care of these patients, including medication reconciliation, patient education, drug therapy monitoring, supportive care management, and medication/chemotherapy review. The pharmacist will also participate in the development of policies, procedures, teaching documents, education and/or monitoring tools, workflow design, and other initiatives that will improve and/or expand the program.
SKU: 1307290-1
Take only one dose per day (24 hours) - see overdose warning. Adults and children 12 yrs and over: One dose = two 25 mg LiquiCaps (50 mg) at bedtime if needed or as directed by a doctor. Store at 20-25 degrees C (68-77 degrees F). Avoid excessive heat above 40 degrees C (104 degrees F) and high humidity. Protect from light.
Do not use: for children under 12 years of age; with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin; with other drugs that cause drowsiness such as antihistamines and nighttime cold/flu products. Do not use with NyQuil. Ask a doctor before use if you have: a breathing problem such as asthma, emphysema or chronic bronchitis; glaucoma; difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland; heart disease. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers or any other sleep aid. When using this product: avoid alcoholic beverages and other drugs that cause drowsiness; drowsiness will occur; be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery. Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. Insomnia may be a symptom of serious underlying medical illness. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning: Taking more than directed can cause serious health problems. In case of overdose get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
