Book an appointment with the best hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Avail the benefits of the best hospital near you. Life Care Institute of Medical Sciences & Research is one of the best super multispeciality hospitals which is located at Stadium road, Ahmedabad right at the center of the medical tourism hub of Gujarat. At Life Care hospital all major medical and surgical services are available 24-hours a day, 365 days a year. It is counted in the top 10 hospitals in Ahmedabad city. Life Care Hospitals, as the center of excellence, is well equipped with state of the art laboratory and medical equipment. Our medical team comprises of highly qualified consultants, physicians, surgeons, anesthetists, medical technicians and well-trained nursing staff. We at Life Care hospital provide a complete range of latest diagnostic, medical and surgical facilities for the care of its patients. Our dedicated team of healthcare professionals is committed to giving each patient the best care. We provide the best Cardiac, ENT, Critical Care, Orthopaedic and Other Surgical Services in Ahmedabad.
265356 + Patients
180989 + ECG
89250 + Angiography
27450 + Angioplasty
9768 + Joint Replacement
99 + Cochlear Implant
Departments At Life Care Multispeciality Hospital
At Life Care we are committed in giving beyond the expectation treatment experience to all the patient. We have all the departments under one roof at Life Care Hospitals
The sugar rush | Dairy Industries International
Related organisations: Coca-Cola, dairy uk
Sugar is in the news quite a lot recently, as the world tries to get to grips with a global obesity epidemic and the rising cost of diabetes to national health services. It seems you can't turn a page in a newspaper without hearing about how Coca-Cola is reducing the sugar load in its products, or turn on the TV without an advertisement for lower sugar products.
However, all sugar is not the same, as Dairy UK has pointed out. The sugars found in milk, for example, are quite different to the added sugar found in some products. Free sugars are not total sugars.
Interestingly, the recent Public Health England Sugar Swaps campaign has maligned yogurts as being in the same category as sugar jellies, which is distinctly not the case. The yogurt offers a wealth of nutrition and health benefits, versus items such as jellies. It is silly and shortsighted to lump them in together.
Radiation Oncology | SwedishAmerican
Radiation therapy is a proven and effective way to treat many kinds of cancer in almost any part of the body. The Regional Cancer Center's Radiation Oncology Department offers state-of-the-art cancer treatment technology. For many patients, radiation is the only kind of treatment needed, and many are cancer-free after having radiation treatments alone or in combination with surgery, chemotherapy and immunotherapy.
Radiation therapy effectively treats cancer by using high-energy beams to pinpoint and destroy cancerous cells. Around 50 to 60 percent of cancer patients will receive some form of radiation during the course of their disease. Radiation can be used to cure or control cancer, and to reduce the severity of pain.
The first part of planning an individual's radiation treatment requires a simulation. This involves mapping the area that will be treated. Every attempt is made to ensure patient comfort during the simulation, which takes about 10 minutes. Patients are not required to hold their breath, and there is no sensation that results from the simulation. Some marks will be placed on the patient to determine where future radiation treatments will be aimed. Following the simulation, patients are given an appointment time to come back and begin their actual radiation treatments.
Mammosite Treatment for Breast Cancer
During mammosite treatment, a breast surgeon positions a balloon catheter into the lumpectomy cavity. To deliver the required amount of radiation, a tiny radioactive source is placed inside the balloon catheter by a computer-controlled machine. Placement is guided with CT images and treatment planning software.
The source is left in the balloon for less than 10 minutes. During this time the patient is receiving radiation to a targeted area around the lumpectomy cavity. This method of treatment reduces exposure to the whole breast, chest wall, heart and lungs.
Health Insurance Plans in Harwood, TX | Wirefly
Compare Health Insurance Rates in Harwood, TX
Health insurance is a type of insurance that helps cover costs of expensive health, surgical, and medical costs. Among the many different types of payment medical providers support, your health care insurance can help reimburse what you paid or directly pay the provider itself. One of the easiest ways to help compare health plans in Harwood, TX is to receive your own free online quote via Wirefly. This is an easy to use and helpful service that can make finding and signing up for health insurance simple.
Comparing Health Insurance Policies in Harwood, TX
An affordable option for individuals in Harwood, TX who only want health insurance for emergency situations would be catastrophic-only insurance. This is a good choice for those who rarely visit their doctor and only want health insurance if they are involved in a severe accident or have a sudden health issue that requires immediate medical assistance.
One thing to remember when comparing health insurance plans in Harwood, TX is if you have higher monthly premiums, you will also have better overall coverage. This is something to consider if you currently have a health condition such as heart disease or diabetes, and need quality, ongoing coverage.
Common Types of Health Insurance Plans in Harwood, TX
There are many types of health insurance covers to choose from in Harwood, TX. These plans may look like they offer the same coverage; however, their convenience and flexibility is very different. The main types include HMO, PPO, POS, HSA, HRA, FSA, and MSA. Determining the differences between these choices will help you choose an appropriate plan.
Health Maintenance Organization, or HMO. An HMO is a plan that restricts you to a particular healthcare provider. This means, whenever you have a health concern, you will only visit a particular physician for assistance. In cases where you need additional attention, this primary care doctor will be the one to refer you to a specialist. Health maintenance organization plans in Harwood, TX are cheap compared to other plans. The major downside of HMO plans is that the network of doctors you can choose from is limited because some physicians do not offer HMO plans. The upside of HMO is that out-of-pocket expenses are relatively low and reasonable. Furthermore, you do not have to pay any deductibles.
Point of Service, or POS. A POS plan combines the features of HMOs and PPOs. With POS coverage, you have a reasonable circle of medical practitioners from which you can choose a primary care doctor. Provided you remain within the circle of doctors in Harwood, TX, you will pay low copayments. There are also no deductibles in this plan. However, if you insist on seeing a physician outside the network of doctors, the deductibles and copayments are high.
Non-Conventional Health Insurance Plans. Some of the non-conventional health insurance plans in Harwood, TX, include "Medical Savings Account" (MSA), "Health Reimbursement Account" (HRA), "Health Savings Account" (HSA), and "Health Flexible Spending Arrangement" (FSA). All these plans work on the grounds that you or your employer has set aside some money in a savings account for all your medical expenses. The funds that have been set aside are used for paying doctor prescriptions, surgical treatments, doctor visits, and over-the-counter medicine. These plans provide a lot of freedom with regards to how you can use the money. Some plans even give you the option of rolling unused funds to the next year.
Basic Breakdown of Health Insurance Costs in Harwood, TX
Out of pocket costs are treated differently than deductibles. Health insurance providers require a minimum amount to be paid by a subscriber before they will begin to pay for services; this is what's referred to as the deductible. Out of pocket refers to the amount of money that must be paid by the subscriber before their health insurance will pay 100% of medical costs incurred. Both the out of pocket and deductible amounts paid reset each time the plan renews, which is generally annually, and are not eligible to roll over to the next year. While this is a general rule, there are some health insurance plans in Harwood, TX that allow an exception for deductibles paid in the previous year may count toward the deductible amount only for the first quarter of the new plan year.
Most health insurance companies that provide coverage in Harwood, TX will have an allowance for a maximum lifetime benefit under their plan. This amount is usually quite large and doesn't come into play for most subscribers and is meant to protect the insurance company from being responsible exorbitant medical expenses. Once this maximum amount is met, the insurance provider will not make any further payments for the subscriber.
If a subscriber already has a family physician or a specialist they see for treatment in the Harwood, TX area, it's important to check with a potential new insurance provider to ensure the physician is in the plan's network. The subscriber also must notify their physicians when coverage changes so the proper health insurance company can be billed for expenses.
Get a Health Insurance Quote in Harwood, TX Now
Everyone, including individuals and especially those with families, needs suitable health insurance coverage. While many factors have an effect on plans and their rates, it's quick and easy to get quotes in Harwood, TX on Wirefly just by entering a ZIP code.
Saving money is great, but it shouldn't be done at the expense of important coverages. Couples who plan to have children at some point should make sure they get plans with maternity coverage to avoid any difficulties with getting that coverage later. The most important thing to remember is that it's never smart to get rid of coverage just to save a buck. Monthly insurance premiums may not be cheap, but they pale in comparison to how much health care can cost when paying out of pocket. People looking for the best health insurance plans in Harwood, TX should use Wirefly to find the right plans and save money by getting free quotes from a variety of providers today.
Pendom Od: Uses, Price, Dosage, Side Effects, Substitute, Buy Online
Pendom Od
In stock alternatives of Pendom OD
Pendom Od Information
Pendom Od is a commercial drug that is prescribed in the form of Capsule. The alternative uses of Pendom Od have also been explained below.
Medical history of the patient along with age and gender determines the dosage of Pendom Od. Individual symptoms and route of administration also determines the right dosage. Refer to the dosage section for a detailed discussion.
Common side effects of Pendom Od include Headache, Diarrhoea. Some other side effects of Pendom Od have been listed ahead. These side effects of Pendom Od are usually temporary and subside with the completion of treatment. Consult your doctor if these side effects become worse or stay for a longer duration.
It is also important to note that Pendom Od has a Severe effect for pregnant women and Severe effect on lactating mothers. It is important to know if Pendom Od has any effect on the kidney, liver and heart. Information on such adverse effects, if any, has been given in the Pendom Od related warnings section.
Individuals suffering from medical conditions like Liver Disease, Osteoporosis, Kidney Disease must refrain from the use of Pendom Od since this can cause severe adverse effects.
Besides this, Pendom Od may also have severe interaction with some medicines. A complete list of these interactions is given below.
In addition to the above precautions for Pendom Od, it is important to know that it is not safe while driving, and is not habit-forming.
Pendom Od Benefits & Uses
Pendom Od Dosage & How to Take
Pendom Od Side Effects
Pendom Od Related Warnings
Severe Interaction of Pendom Od with Other Drugs
Pendom Od Contraindications
Frequently asked Questions about Pendom Od
Pendom Od Interactions with Food and Alcohol
Pendom Od is used to treat the following -
Based on research, the following side effects have been observed when Pendom Od is used -
Is the use of Pendom Od safe for pregnant women?
Pendom OD can cause severe side effects if taken during pregnancy, so, pregnant women should talk to their doctor before taking it.
Is the use of Pendom Od safe during breastfeeding?
Taking Pendom OD may lead to serious side effects if you are breastfeeding. Pendom OD should not be taken by breastfeeding women unless prescribed by the doctor.
What is the effect of Pendom Od on the Kidneys?
Pendom OD may cause harmful effects on kidney. if you feel its having any such effect, then stop taking this drug, and restart only on your doctor's advice.
What is the effect of Pendom Od on the Liver?
There may be an adverse effect on the liver after taking Pendom OD. If you observe any side effects on your body then stop taking this drug. Take this medicine again only if your doctor advises you to do so.
What is the effect of Pendom Od on the Heart?
Pendom OD has very mild side effects on the heart.
Pendom Od should not be taken with following medicines due to severe side effects it may cause to patients -
If you are suffering from any of the following diseases, you should not take Pendom Od unless your doctor advises you to do so -
Is this Pendom Od habit forming or addictive?
No, there is no any evidence that Pendom Od is addictive.
No, you should do not do anything that requires concentration and attention as the Pendom Od can make you feel drowsy.
Yes, but take Pendom Od only as per medical advice.
No, the use of Pendom Od in mental disorders is not effective.
Interaction between Food and Pendom Od
Due to the absence of research, it is difficult to say how Pendom Od and food will interact.
Interaction between Alcohol and Pendom Od
Information about the interaction of Pendom Od and alcohol is not currently available because this topic has not been researched yet.
Does Pendom OD cause constipation?
Yes, Pendom OD can cause constipation. It is a rare side effect of this drug. However, if you are experiencing severe constipation after taking this drug then inform your doctor and take precautionary methods such as eating fibrous foods to avoid constipation.
Can Pendom OD cause rashes or itching?
Yes, Pendom OD has been reported to cause rashes or itching but this occurs in a few cases only. It is a common side effect of this medicine. If you experience excessive itching then consult it with your doctor immediately.
What is Pendom OD?
Pendom OD is a brand name for domperidone. It is a prescription drug which belongs to the class of medication known as antiemetics (dopamine D2-receptor antagonist). It is mainly used for the treatment of nausea, vomiting, bloating and stomach fullness. It is also used to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by certain medication used to treat Parkinson's disease.
How long can I safely take Pendom OD?
Take Pendom OD as directed by your doctor. Do not take this medicine longer than prescribed to avoid unpleasant side effects.
Does Pendom OD cause dry mouth?
Yes, Pendom OD can cause dry mouth. It is a rare side effect of this drug. If you experience severe dry mouth after taking this drug, keep yourself hydrated with juices, shakes, and ample water.
Home » Rheumatoid arthritis and depression
Townsend Letter for Doctors & Patients;May2002, Issue 226, p38
Comments on the status of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and depression. Selection of patients for the study; History of depression in patients; Levels of pain when depressive symptoms persist.
Illness Self-Schemas in Depressed and Nondepressed Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients. Clemmey, Philip A.; Nicassio, Perry M. // Journal of Behavioral Medicine;Jun97, Vol. 20 Issue 3, p273
This study examined the hypothesized illness self-schema construct in persons with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Biases in self-description, information processing, and schema-consistent illness behavior were examined in depressed and nondepressed persons with RA and compared with those of...
Depressive symptoms in rheumatoid arthritis patients. Botequio Mella, Lucas Francisco; Bértolo, Manoel Barros; Dalgalarrondo, Paulo // Revista Brasileira de Psiquiatria;set2010, Vol. 32 Issue 3, p257
Objective: To determine the prevalence of depressive and anxiety symptoms in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (a chronic inflammatory disease) in comparison to a control group with osteoarthritis (a chronic non-inflammatory degenerative disease) and to identify the sociodemographic and...
Biology of subjectivity in chronic diseases. Dawes, Peter T.; Ryan, Sarah; Jorsh, Michael; Mattey, Derek L. // Rheumatology;Oct2013, Vol. 52 Issue 10, p1733
The article discusses the views of the authors on the study "The temporal relationship between depression and rheumatoid arthritis disease activity, treatment persistence and response: a systematic review." They emphasize that the meta-analysis between depression and such activity suggests a...
The frequency of smoking in fibromyalgia patients and its association with symptoms. Pamuk, Ömer Nuri; Dönmez, Salim; Çakır, Necati // Rheumatology International;Sep2009, Vol. 29 Issue 11, p1311
The objective of the study was to determine the frequency of smoking in fibromyalgia (FM) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and investigate its association with the symptoms of FM. We included age-matched 302 FM (289 F, 13 M), and 115 (105 F, 10 M) RA patients. All patients were questioned...
Romatoid Artrit, Depresif Bulgular ve Ä°nflamasyon. DURMAZ, Onur // Archives of Neuropsychiatry / Noropsikiatri Arsivi;Jun2014, Vol. 51 Issue 2, p186
THE Depression Connection. C. N. P. // Arthritis Today;Jul/Aug2011, Vol. 25 Issue 4, p36
The article focuses on the prevalence of depression in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. It relates the study published in the February 2011 issue of the journal "Arthritis Care and Research," which shows the pervasiveness of depression to RA patients having low socioeconomic status. Moreover,...
Rheumatoid arthritis. Ally, Mahmood; Hodkinson, Bridget // South African Family Practice;2014, Vol. 56 Issue 3, p166
Immune-mediated inflammatory disorders include a clinically diverse group of conditions that share similar pathogenic mechanisms. Conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriasis, spondyloarthropathy, inflammatory bowel disease and connective-tissue disease are characterised by immune...
Depression and Suicide Publication Analysis, Using Density Equalizing Mapping and Output Benchmarking. Vogelzang, B. H.; Scutaru, C.; Mache, S.; Vitzthum, K.; Quarcoo, David; Groneberg, D. A. // Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine;Jan-Jun2011, Vol. 33 Issue 1, p59
Background: Depression is a major cause of suicide worldwide. This association has been reflected by numerous scientific publications reporting about studies to this theme. There is currently no overall evaluation of the global research activities in this field. Aim: The aim of the current study...
What are the benefits of wheatgrass for cholesterol and high blood pressure - Things You Didn't Know
Many risks: Many risks of uncontrolled high blood pressure including stroke, kidney disease. Most of the medications used are generic and cost very little (can be on the $4/month list of most pharmacies). You should talk with your doctor about generic medications. ...Read more
The risk factors for getting High blood pressure include:: Smoking, Getting no exercise, Obesity, High cholesterol, Alcohol consumption, Metabolic syndrome, Diabetes, Hyperuricemia, Sleep apnea. ...Read more
Improved Health: Taking mediciations to control your diabetes, hypertension, and cholesterol can help to lower your risk for cardiovascular events such as heart attacks. In combination, they may also help to lower inflammation. Regular exercise is also a top "medicine" to help with all 3 of those issues. ...Read more
House Calls program serves Southern Nevada's aging population | Las Vegas Review-Journal
In HealthCare Partners' House Calls program, health care professionals regularly visit homes to treat patients who were released from hospitals with conditions that make it difficult for them to get to doctors' offices.
Roosevelt Bennett receives care from nurse practitioners with Healthcare Partners of Nevada in his Henderson home Wednesday, April 5, 2017. (Elizabeth Brumley Las Vegas Review-Journal) @EliPagePhoto
Nakeisha Curry, associate medical director of house calls for Healthcare Partners of Nevada, in client Roosevelt Bennett's home in Henderson, Wednesday, April 5, 2017. (Elizabeth Brumley Las Vegas Review-Journal) @EliPagePhoto
Roosevelt Bennett, center, receives care from nurse practitioner Judith Trevisano, left, and nurse care manager Roger McCreary, with Healthcare Partners of Nevada in Bennett's Henderson home Wednesday, April 5, 2017. (Elizabeth Brumley Las Vegas Review-Journal) @EliPagePhoto
Healthcare Partners of Nevada Nurse practitioner Judith Trevisano listens to Roosevelt Bennett heartbeat in his Henderson home Wednesday, April 5, 2017. (Elizabeth Brumley Las Vegas Review-Journal) @EliPagePhoto
Healthcare Partners of Nevada Nurse practitioner Judith Trevisano checks the amount of oxygen in Roosevelt Bennett's blood in Bennett's Henderson home Wednesday, April 5, 2017. (Elizabeth Brumley Las Vegas Review-Journal) @EliPagePhoto
Roosevelt Bennett, left, receives care from nurse practitioners with Healthcare Partners of Nevada with his wife Brenda Bennett in their Henderson home Wednesday, April 5, 2017. (Elizabeth Brumley Las Vegas Review-Journal) @EliPagePhoto
Night after night he lay gasping for breath, disgusted and embarrassed yet sure he was keeping himself from suffocating.
"Urinating on yourself is terrible," the retired utility company lineman said recently as he recalled a time in his life that now makes him grimace. "But I did what I thought I had to do to stay alive."
But today Bennett, who was admitted to the hospital on a costly emergency basis five times in 2016 — his decline was so dramatic some doctors thought he had only months to live — greets visitors to his Henderson home with a smile and talks about how wonderful it is to walk his dog and wash his car.
"They gave me my life back," Bennett said of the three health care professionals in his living room: nurse practitioner Judie Trevisano, registered nurse Roger McCreary and Dr. Nakeisha Curry. "They treated me at home, showed me how I could live."
The nurse is here to see you
Trevisano, McCreary and Curry are part of HealthCare Partners' House Calls program, where health care professionals regularly visit homes to treat patients who, as with Bennett, were released from hospitals with conditions that make it difficult for them to get to primary care doctors' offices for appointments.
During this 45-minute House Calls visit, the team finds that prescribed medicines continue working well for Bennett, who also has diabetes. Though COPD is not fully reversible, it can typically be managed.
"I was able to teach him the purpose of the medications and how to use them," said Trevisano, who's been treating Bennett for six months. "Once we did that, he was better able to open up the airways into his lungs. I also prescribed an anti-anxiety drug so he could function better."
House Calls cuts hospitalization costs, but the program was not developed for that reason, Curry said. "It was done because it was the right thing for patients," she said. "It helps them with their quality of life."
The initial House Calls visit by a nurse practitioner and nurse takes about two hours. They not only examine patients and hear their concerns, they also inspect the house for problems that could affect treatment, such as fall risks or ventilation and water problems. A social worker might be called in if the patient needs help, say, in getting food.
Curry said the Southern Nevada program has seven treatment zones, with patients referred to House Calls either by their primary care doctors or by hospitals where they've been treated. Her 18-member team includes three nurses, a social worker, five medical assistants, a manager and seven nurse practitioners.
As often as twice a week, one or two members of the team see a patient at home until he or she is strong enough to stay out of hospitals or urgent care centers and keep doctor's appointments. Most patients need home visits for a couple of months, but some stay in the program for up to a year.
"Mr. Bennett was referred to us after his last hospital stay in October and hasn't been in the hospital since," Curry said.
Patients at highest risk for being admitted to the hospital are those recently discharged, Curry noted, particularly if they don't have someone to pick up medications, make follow-up appointments or heed signs of worsening conditions.
Emergency visits costly
Bennett wasn't healthy enough for his wife, Brenda, to take him to scheduled visits. "He had a hospital only a mile from his home, but his wife couldn't get him in the car to even take him there," Curry said. "So dialed 911 when he had a hard time breathing and racked up $800 in ambulance fees. Those who cared for him thought it was time for him to get ready for hospice, that he had only a few months to live."
Bennett and other House Calls patients — 700 men and women since the program began last year in Las Vegas — are all members of Medicare Advantage insurance plans that have contracts with HealthCare Partners, one of the largest medical practices in the U.S. with more than 700,000 patients.
House Calls, which currently has more than 300 active patients, comes at no extra cost.
Susan VanBeuge, a nurse practitioner and an associate professor at UNLV's School of Nursing, said she expects the House Calls program will be replicated as the baby boomer generation ages.
"With our aging population, it's a thoughtful way of delivering care," she said. "For instance, many seniors have mobility problems. Our public transportation isn't easy for many people to negotiate."
Bennett is a true believer.
"I love it. They gave me medications that actually work for me and showed me how to use them. I'm no longer living in fear."
What makes House Calls unique?
Standard home health care programs send aides, therapists or skilled nursing to patients' homes to help them recover from illness or injury. Staff must seek approval for prescriptions and treatment from primary care providers, which can take days or weeks.
House Calls professionals prescribe medication and treatments just as primary care providers do. Local pharmacies deliver prescriptions, or patients can get 90-day supplies by mail.
ABT-199 BH-3 Mimetic Enters Phase Ia Trial For Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia | Asian Scientist Magazine | Science, Technology and Medicine News Updates From Asia
ABT-199 BH-3 Mimetic Enters Phase Ia Trial For Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
By Grace Liao | Tech & PharmaAugust 12, 2011
A molecule discovered 20 years ago at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Australia is now entering clinical trials to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
AsianScientist (Aug. 12, 2011) – A scientific discovery made 20 years ago at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute (WEHI) in Melbourne, Australia has led to the development of a potential new anti-cancer agent that is now entering clinical trials to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common type of leukemia.
In a worldwide Phase Ia clinical trial coordinated by Cancer Trials Australia, patients with CLL have begun to receive the agent, ABT-199, a so-called BH3-mimetic drug designed to block the function of the Bcl-2 protein. The original discovery that Bcl-2 extends the life of leukemia cells was made by Profs. David Vaux, Suzanne Cory, and Jerry Adams at WEHI. Subsequent collaborations with other institute scientists have contributed to the development of a new class of drugs called BH3-mimetics that block Bcl-2 to rapidly remove leukemia cells.
ABT-199 was discovered in the joint research collaboration and designed to selectively inhibit Bcl-2, co-led by Prof. David Huang. The agent has been jointly developed for clinical use by two companies, Abbott and Genentech, a member of the Roche Group.
"The Phase Ia clinical trial is designed to demonstrate the safest dose of ABT-199," explained Professor Andrew Roberts, head of clinical translation at WEHI. According to Roberts, the agent will be tested in a small group of patients with CLL who have not responded satisfactorily to other treatments.
"If the safety profile of ABT-199 supports further study," he added, "ABT-199 could be available for a larger Phase II clinical trial to determine whether it is effective for treating CLL in the next one to two years."
The head of business development at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, Dr. Julian Clark, described the collaboration with Abbott and Genentech as unique. "The combination of large biotech and pharmaceutical companies with an academic research institute is regarded as the industry benchmark," he said. "We anticipate that other compounds discovered at the institute will be able to enter clinical trials through similar collaborative efforts."
Source: The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research.
Smaller Babies Who Take Omega-3 May Have Lower Heart Disease Risk, StudyThe Mystery Of The Mutant Mice That Never Got FatBacteria Develop Resistance To Antimicrobial Nanosilver, StudyBoehringer Ingelheim Opens R&D Lab In ChinaMicroparticles To Help Treat Heart Attacks
Tags: Australia, Australian Cancer Research Foundation, Cancer Council Victoria, Cancer Trials Australia, Leukaemia Foundation of Australia, Leukemia, Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, National Health and Medical Research Council Australia, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Victorian Government
Research Update: JAND Volume 120 Issue 6 (June 2020) - A+ RD
Research Update: JAND Volume 120 Issue 6 (June 2020)
Research Updates / By theaplusrd
By Rachael Manasseh
Keeping up with new research can feel overwhelming. So here at A+ RD, we provide you with summaries and reflections on the latest research in the field of nutrition. Stay tuned for our continuing Research Update series!
(Pro tip: if you're a member of the Academy, you get access to all editions of the JAND!)
Longer Participation in WIC is Associated with Better Diet Quality in 24-month old Children
Authors: Nancy S.Weinfield, Christine Borger, Lauren E. Au, Shannon E.Whaley Danielle Berman, Lorrene D.Ritchie
Research question: "Is longer duration of participation in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) associated with better diet quality in 24-month-old children?"
Study design: A national observational study of mothers with 24 month old children who participated in WIC from 2013 to 2016.
Methods: Diet information was collected through 24-hour recalls and assessed using Healthy Eating Index 2015 scores.
Results: Children that participated longer in WIC were found to have significantly higher scores than those that left the program.
Conclusion: Children who participate in WIC for longer during the first two years of life seem to have more health benefits than those who left the program earlier
Reflections: How does this study support the need for funding for WIC? How does this research affect your understanding of reasons to refer a family to WIC? How can clinicians encourage families to fully utilize their WIC benefits? What obstacles might get in their way?
Authors: Lyndsay A. Avalos, Bette Caan, Nerissa Nance, Yeyi Zhu, De-Kun Li, Charles Quesenberry, Rebecca J.Hyde, Monique M. Hedderson
Research question: "Is prenatal depression associated with diet quality during pregnancy as measured with the Healthy Eating Index 2010 (HEI-2010) and does this relationship differ by race/ethnicity? Are there differences in the 12 HEI-2010 dietary components for women with prenatal depression compared with women without prenatal depression?"
Study design: Cross sectional analysis of a cohort study of women who were receiving prenatal care between Oct 2011 and April 2013
Methods: Participants were sent food frequency questionnaires regarding their dietary intake during pregnancy, diet quality was analyzed by using Healthy Eating Index 2010 scores.
Results: Women who had prenatal depression were more likely to consume foods high in fat and added sugars, and thus less likely to consume nutrient-dense foods such as whole fruits and beans during pregnancy. In particular, these results were significant among Hispanic women that participated in the study.
Conclusion: Considerations for prenatal nutrition counseling include education on how to limit energy dense food and encouraging an increased intake of fruits, green veg, and beans. In addition, diet recommendations should be culturally relevant to individuals. More research is needed to determine if prenatal depression directly influences diet, or if poor diet quality leads to the development of depression during pregnancy.
Reflections: The "directionality" of this relationship is yet to be determined (see "Conclusion") – how would you change your application of this knowledge depending on the direction? Additionally, how would you incorporate awareness of mental health into your patient counseling?
Authors: Cheng Wang, Chu-wen Ling, Ding Ding, Yi-hong Li, Wen-ting Cao, Xin-yi Tang, Yu-ming Chen
Research question: "Are serum carotenoids associated with body fat, and do these associations differ by different types of obesity (general vs central)?"
Study design: a cross-sectional and prospective study of Chinese adults ages 40-75 that were recruited from 2008 to 2013.
Methods: anthropometric data and serum carotenoid levels were collected from the study population
Results: Serum carotenoids were found to be inversely associated with lower adiposity, specifically in the abdominal area. Beta-carotene in particular was found to have the most beneficial effects on body fat distribution in this study.
Conclusion: more randomized trials needed to further explore relationship between carotenoids and fat distribution in the body
Reflections: Why do the authors call for randomized-controlled trials specifically? How does this research, though preliminary, reinforce the benefits of fruits and vegetables for preventing obesity?
Authors: Andrea Cristina Sánchez-Quesada, Itziar Gardeazábal, Miguel Ángel Martínez-González, Alfredo Gea, Estefanía Toledo
Research question: "Are subclasses and individual compounds of phenolic acids associated with breast cancer risk?"
Study design: cohort of 10,812 middle aged women enrolled in the Seguimiento Universidad de Navarra (SUN) Project
Methods: participants were given food frequency questionnaires at the start of the study and after 10 years of follow up.
Results: Among this cohort, there was an inverse correlation between intake of hydroxycinnamic acids (notably chlorogenic acids) and breast cancer incidence. The main sources of hydroxycinnamic acids in the diet were from coffee, fruit, and vegetables.
Conclusion: More research is needed as this study is the first of its kind to explore the role of different subclasses of phenolic acids in breast cancer prevention.
Reflection: Many patients and clients may want to know how to prevent cancer because they are worried about a family history. What other research can you find that supports the usefulness of fruits, vegetables, or coffee in reducing risk? On the other hand, nutrition research related to cancer prevention is often sensationalized in the media – how could this article be sensationalized? What would you say if asked to comment on this in the media?
Authors: Miriam Isabel Souza dos Santos Simon, Roberta Dalle Molle, Flávia Moraes Silva, Thais Wabner Rodrigues, Marceli Feldmann, Gabriele Carra Forte, Paulo José Cauduro Marostica
Research question: "Do oral antioxidant micronutrients and essential fatty acids supplementation improve nutritional status, pulmonary function, inflammatory markers, and the quality of life of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF)?"
This was a review of past studies that have examined the role of antioxidant and essential fatty acid (EFA) supplementation in the management of cystic fibrosis symptoms.
While some of the studies showed improved lung function and nutritional status, the results are not consistent enough to recommend antioxidant and EFA supplementation as part of CF management.
Reflection: Conditions like cystic fibrosis can seriously affect a patient's life, so patients may be more inclined to try novel forms of management. How would you analyze the potential risks and benefits of a treatment and counsel a patient who really wants to try it?
Authors: Ursula White, Courtney M.Peterson, Robbie A. Beyl, Corby K.Martin, Eric Ravussin
Research question: "Does 12 weeks of daily type 2 resistant starch (RS2) supplementation affect appetite perception, food intake, and appetite-related gut hormones in adults with prediabetes, relative to the placebo control (CTL) group?"
Study design: Randomized controlled trial of 59 adults with prediabetes over 12 weeks
Methods: Participants were given either high-amylose maize/RS2 (variable) or amylopectin (control).
Results: Those that were given high-amylose maize did not have significant differences in satiety, appetite, or energy/macronutrient compared to those that were given amylopectin.
Conclusion: more research is needed to better understand the effects of high-amylose maize in appetite and satiety for prediabetic patients
Reflection: Take a look at the methods of this study. How could the researchers have been more thorough in their understanding of the participants' diets beyond the addition of the fiber?
Authors: Ioanna Kechribari, Meropi D.Kontogianni, Michael Georgoulis, Kallirroi Lamprou, Irene Mourati, Emmanuel Vagiakis, Nikos Yiannakouris
Research question: "Is red meat consumption associated with apnea and hypopnea indices in patients with obstructive sleep apnea evaluated by polysomnography?"
Study design: This was a cross-sectional study of 243 patients diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea.
Methods: participants were evaluated for physical activity, sleep patterns, and diet quality though FFQ and 24 hour dietary recalls
Results: Patients that consumed more red meat were more likely to have higher apnea and hypopnea values
Conclusion: Results were consistent with past studies in the literature, indicating a potential relationship between red meat consumption and obstructive sleep apnea. The authors noted that sleep deprivation and tiredness contribute to craving high-fat, energy-dense food as well.
Reflection: How does this study fit into your understanding of the health risks associated with high red meat consumption.
Food System Sustainability: An Academy Advocacy Priority
Authors: Jeanne Blankenship, Robyn Smith Brown
Over the past few years, the Academy has advocated for a greater focus on sustainability in the field of nutrition. Some of these efforts include:
Reauthorizing the Farm Bill in 2018, which provided more support for sustainable agricultural methods that conserve the environment and reduce waste during food production,
Considering the role of food sustainability in the revision of future Dietary Guidelines for Americans,
Providing more education on food safety and food date labels in order to prevent excessive amounts of food waste in landfills,
Renovating school kitchens with more efficient equipment so that schools can provide healthy lunches in a more affordable and sustainable manner,
Supporting the Farm to School initiative, which provides schools with fresh produce while supporting local farms with nutrition education,
Expanding peer mentoring for breastfeeding in WIC to help reduce waste from infant formula packaging while also improving breastfeeding rates,
And implementing food service guidelines for federal facilities to encourage local food sourcing, waste reduction, and improved cleaning in the food service industry.
Reflection: Which of these policy initiatives interests you? Which do you know the least about?
Cultivating Sustainable, Resilient, and Healthy Food and Water Systems: A Nutrition-Focused Framework for Action
Authors: Marie L.Spiker, Amy Knoblock-Hahn, Katie Brown, Janice Giddens, Amanda S.Hege Kevin Sauer, Diane M.Enos, Alison Steiber
The Academy has developed a plan to support food and water sustainability through five "entry points" :
Improve Food and Nutrition Security and Water Security
Through these points, nutrition professionals can address issues regarding sustainability in their own education and practice. One option is to include education on food and water systems in the curriculum for future dietetic students. Another is to have RDNs and NDTRs as part of interdisciplinary teams when conducting food system and sustainability research. RDNs can also help develop sustainability programs in their own practice via hospital gardens, composting, and/or food service systems. More broadly, nutrition professionals can be advocates for sustainability by supporting public policies that help preserve food and water systems.
Reflection: How can you incorporate sustainability into your career interests?
Advancements in Personalized Nutrition Technologies: Guiding Principles for Registered Dietitian Nutritionists
Authors: Mary Rozga, Marie E. Latulippe, Alison Steiber
Personalized nutrition (PN) is a new and rapidly growing field that is becoming more relevant in nutrition counseling. PN technologies use genomic data to predict an individual's metabolism and response to certain foods. However, PN may not be appropriate for everyone, so each patient should be assessed before implementing these methods. Additionally, PN technologies need to be evidenced-based in order to ensure safety and accuracy. Future dietetic programs will most likely include education on PN as this field continues to expand.
Reflection: How would advancements in personalized nutrition affect the fields you're interested in?
Coronavirus resources for nutrition professionals
www.eatrightpro.org/coronavirus
International Congress of Dietetic Professionals will be held on the African continent for the first time in South Africa from Sept 15-18, 2020
