2 0 2 2  A N N U A L  R E P O R T
4
Throughout our history, we’ve grounded 
ourselves in the principles and experiences 
that inform how we do business — and 
charted where we go next. We have a tried 
and true business model that has served our 
shareholders, customers, and employees 
well for 110 years.
C O N T E N T S
04
08
09
10
12
14
16
17
18
Letter to Shareholders
Bancshares Board of Directors
2022 Year in Review
Bank Locations
110 Years of Guaranty
Stock Price, EPS, & Dividends Chart
Financial Highlights
Growth Trends
Bank Board of Directors
Guaranty Bancshares realized strong financial 
results during the year. Total loans for the Company 
grew $470.1 million during the year, to a record high 
of $2.4 billion. Total deposits ended the year with 
growth of $10.3 million and, likewise, a new record 
total of $2.7 billion. One of our primary goals for 
2022 was to exceed the previous year’s net income, 
which was a tall order given that 2021 included over 
$7.8 million in PPP-related extraordinary income 
and a reverse provision to our loan loss reserves of 
$1.7 million. I’m pleased to say we achieved this goal.
The Company generated net income of $40.4 
million, compared to $39.8 million in the prior year, 
a $641,000 or a 1.6% increase. We accomplished this 
result even after taking a $3.4 million provision for 
potential future loan losses during the last quarter 
of the year. We felt this provision, while no credit 
losses were imminent or identified, was prudent 
given the forecast of a possible recession in 2023.
It was a tough year for the stock market in 
2022, and our stock price was no exception. While 
we certainly added significant intrinsic value to 
our Company, our total return for the year was 
disappointing at -5.5%, including the $0.88 per 
share dividend. This compares to a total return on 
the NASDAQ of -32.5%, S&P 500 of -18.1%, and our 
benchmark S&P Small Cap Banks Index of -11.8%. 
While it’s nice to be down less than other indexes, it 
doesn’t change the economics for our shareholders. 
However, we remain poised to repurchase shares at 
The past year was eventful, to say the least, and many positive developments have continued 
to drive our Company’s growth and progress. However, as we entered the first quarter of 2023, we 
witnessed two bank failures, concerns about the health of the overall banking system and continued 
discussions of a recession. In the midst of these economic uncertainties and challenges, we remain 
committed to delivering value to our shareholders while fairly and consistently serving our customers 
and clients, as we have for 110 years. I will comment on the banking industry issues further into my 
letter, provide data that highlights how Guaranty is different from the banks that have had trouble 
and will explain the various strengths of our Company. But before that, I will start by reporting on the 
financial results and achievements of 2022.
D E A R  F E L L O W  S H A R E H O L D E R S ,
4
discounted prices when opportunities are favorable 
for shareholders. In 2022, we repurchased 2% of our 
common shares outstanding. These transactions 
will continue to be very accretive to our remaining 
shareholders in the coming years, and we maintain 
excess capital to repeat this strategy when the 
opportunity is right.
We all witnessed interest rates soar in 2022 as 
the Fed made significant policy changes to key 
interest rates in an effort to combat inflation. The 
Fed increased interest rates seven times during the 
year for a total of 425 basis points or 4.25%. The 
velocity of this increase was unprecedented in 
recent history. The speed of these rate increases 
over the year created several challenges for 
managing the balance sheet of a bank and created 
significant 
unrealized 
losses 
on 
government 
securities held in banks. The Fed’s rapid monetary 
policy changes also created significant liquidity 
and funding challenges for many banks, primarily 
due to these unreal