 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SWISS WATER DECAFFEINATED COFFEE INC. 
 
2022 ANNUAL REPORT  
 
 
SWISS WATER DECAFFEINATED COFFEE INC.  
Management Discussion and Analysis  
For the year ended December 31, 2022 
 
1 | P a g e  o f  t h e  M D & A  
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
This Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) of Swiss Water Decaffeinated Coffee Inc. (“Swiss 
Water” or the “Company”), dated as of March 16, 2023, provides a review of the financial results for the 
quarter and year ended December 31, 2022 relative to the comparable periods of 2021.  The quarter period 
represents the fourth quarter (“Q4”) of our 2022 fiscal year. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with 
Swiss Water’s audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2022, and in 
conjunction with the Annual Information Form (“AIF”), which are available on www.sedar.com. 
All financial information is presented in Canadian dollars, unless otherwise specified. 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This MD&A contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the future success of our 
business and market opportunities. Forward-looking statements typically contain words such as “believes”, 
“expects”, “anticipates”, “continue”, “could”, “indicates”, “plans”, “will”, “intends”, “may”, “projects”, 
“schedule”, “would” or similar expressions suggesting future outcomes or events, although not all forward-
looking statements contain these identifying words.  Examples of such statements include, but are not limited 
to, statements concerning: (i) expectations regarding Swiss Water’s future success in various geographic 
markets; (ii) future financial results, including anticipated future sales and processing volumes; (iii) future 
dividends; (iv) the expected actions of the third parties described herein; (v) factors affecting the coffee 
market including supplies and commodity pricing; (vi) the expected cost to complete production line currently 
under construction; and (vii) the business and financial outlook of Swiss Water.  In addition, this MD&A 
contains financial outlook information that is intended to provide general guidance for readers based on our 
current estimates, which are based on numerous assumptions and may prove to be incorrect. Therefore, such 
financial outlook information should not be relied upon by readers. These statements are neither promises 
nor guarantees but involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, 
level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of 
activity, performance or achievements expressed in or implied by these statements.  These risks include, but 
are not limited to, risks related to processing volumes and sales growth, operating results, supply of coffee, 
supply of utilities, general industry conditions, commodity price risks, technology, competition, foreign 
exchange rates, interest rate risks, construction timing, inflation, costs and financing of capital projects, 
general economic conditions and those factors described herein under the heading ‘Risks & Uncertainties’. 
The forward-looking statements contained herein are also based on assumptions that we believe are current 
and reasonable, including but not limited to, assumptions regarding: (i) trends in certain market segments 
and the economic climate generally; (ii) the financial strength of our customers; (iii) the value of the Canadian 
dollar versus the US dollar (“US$”); (iv) the expected financial and operating performance of Swiss Water 
going forward; (v) the availability and expected terms and conditions of debt facilities; (vi) the expected level 
of dividends payable to shareholders; (vii) the potential impact of pandemics (viii) the potential impact of any 
war and terrorist activity. We cannot assure readers that the actual results will be consistent with the 
statements contained in this MD&A. The fo