 
 
ACN 614 854 045 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL REPORT 
30 JUNE 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“veritas et aequitas” 
Benjamin Hornigold Ltd 
Corporate Directory 
30 June 2022 
 
Page | 1 
Directors 
 
 
Mr Michael Glennon 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman  
Mr Sulieman Ravell 
Non-Executive Director  
Mr Gary Miller 
Non-Executive Director  
 
 
Company Secretary 
 
Mr Michael Glennon  
 
 
 
Registered Office 
Auditor 
Level 10 
171 Clarence Street  
Sydney NSW 2000 
Pitcher Partners 
Level 38 
345 Queen Street 
Brisbane QLD 4000 
 
 
Stock Exchange Listing 
Share Registry 
Australian Securities Exchange code: BHD 
Link Market Services 
Level 21  
10 Eagle Street  
Brisbane QLD 4000 
 
 
Website address 
Email address 
www.bhdlimited.com.au  
cosec@bhdlimited.com.au 
Benjamin Hornigold Ltd 
Directors’ Letter 
30 June 2022 
 
Page | 1 
Dear Shareholders 
 
The 2022 financial year was a challenging year for global markets.  The BHD portfolio was impacted by the 
general instability in the market driven by inflation concerns, tensions in Ukraine and the flow on effects from 
these events to markets globally.  Equity markets were displaying signs of overvaluation, especially in the 
tech and unlisted space which was probably a reflection more of overvaluation driven by unsustainably low 
interest rates following on from Covid-19 measures put in place by Central Banks to minimise the damage to 
their economies as the world went into lockdown.  That overreaction forced asset prices higher and at the 
first sign of a shift back to interest rate normalisation we are experiencing a winding back of asset prices.  The 
upside of this pullback in asset prices is that we see more value in the equity market and the potential for 
strong returns with many companies now at oversold levels.   
 
We have focused on investing in lower-risk situations as a means to generate returns while limiting downside, 
though these investments were not immune to a global sell-off in risk assets and still have risk and correlation 
with equity markets. Over the year BHD’s investment portfolio generated a gross return of (-5.97%) gross of 
dividends and franking.  This compares with the S&P/ASX 200 Accumulation Index return of (-6.47%) and the 
S&P/ASX Small Ordinaries Accumulation Index return of (-19.5%). 
 
We expect to continue with the same strategy, preserving capital and at the same time providing us with 
sufficient capital to fund ongoing legal matters while pursuing recovery of loans owed to the company.  While 
these loans have been impaired, they still remain outstanding and your Directors are of the opinion that we 
will recover additional funds for investors in pursuing these debts. 
 
In regards to the outcome of the various legal matters before the company, the process has been significantly 
slower than we anticipated as we await the outcome of various other actions being undertaken by 
Administrators, ASIC and Insurance Companies. Notably, the recent judgement to wind up Henry Morgan Ltd 
provided significant findings from the Federal Court and likely to provide tailwinds for our claims. 
 
The Company experienced some small wins in the financial in relation to clawing back funds for shareholders.  
We received a small insurance payout over the period over $116k. 
 
As a final point, your Directors have all backed the company, now owning over 30% of the issued capital. We 
have returned the shares to trading on the ASX, providing liquidity for shareholders who wish to sell and still 
remain committed to maximising the potential for shareholders from our impaired loans and other claims. 
 
 
Stay safe, stay well 
 
Gary, Michael & Sulieman 
Benjamin Hornigold Ltd 
Directors Report 
For the year ended 30 June 2022  
 
Page | 2 
Introduction  
The Directors present their report of Benjamin Hornigold Limited (referred to hereafter as the ‘Company’ 
or ‘BHD’) for the year ended 30 June 2022, together with the financial statements, and the a