Table of Contents
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
 
 
 
x
Annual Report Pursuant To Section 13 or 15(d) Of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022.
Or
 
 
 
o
Transition Report Pursuant To Section 13 or 15(d) Of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the transition period from ______________ to ______________.
 
Commission file number: 000-50275
 
BCB BANCORP, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
New Jersey
 
26-0065262
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 
 
 
104-110 Avenue C, Bayonne, New Jersey
 
07002
(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  1-(800)-680-6872
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  
 
 
 
 
Title of each class
 
Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, no par value
 
The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC
 
Trading Symbol
BCBP
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
YES  o    NO  x
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
YES  o    NO  x
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
YES  x    NO  o
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that 
the Registrant was required to submit such files).
YES  x    NO  o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth  company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” 
“accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.:
 
 
 
 
Large accelerated filer 
Accelerated filer  x
Non-accelerated filer  o
Smaller reporting company x   Emerging Growth company  o
 
 
If any emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 
13(a) of the Exchange Act o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
(15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. x
 
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial 
statements. o
 
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery 
period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  YES  ¨    NO  x
 
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the Registrant, computed by reference to the last sale price on June 30, 2022, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market, was 
ap