1-800-FLOWERS.COM, INC. 
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 
 
Dear Fellow Shareholders, 
As the world began to transition to a post-COVID environment through fiscal 2022, we along with many 
other businesses faced new and unprecedented challenges in this ever-changing landscape, including a 
seismic shift in consumer behavior as they responded to significant inflation that impacted both their 
discretionary and non-discretionary purchases.  Nonetheless, as a result of the strategic investments 
that we have made over the last several years, our company grew revenues by 4 percent in fiscal 2022, 
which was on top of the more than 40 percent growth that we experienced in the prior year.   
Our revenue growth demonstrates the scalability of our e-commerce platform and our ability to retain 
and build on the gains we achieved over the past two years. Most notably, our revenue is now more 
than 75 percent higher than it was during the pre-pandemic levels of 2019 and we have essentially 
doubled the size of our company over the past several years. This reflects the healthy growth that we 
have seen in our customer file, our expanded product offerings and our ever-increasing focus on 
customer engagement through a combination of highly relevant content and unique experiences. 
While we were able to grow our customer base and revenue in fiscal 2022 incremental to the significant 
growth we experienced in the prior year, our profits were pressured by the significant macro inflationary 
headwinds on our cost structure.  We generated $99 million of adjusted EBITDA for the fiscal year as our 
revenue growth was offset by the significant increase in product and operating costs. In the years ahead, 
we are confident that our bottom-line performance will reflect the significant top line growth we have 
experienced.  Our initiatives to improve operational efficiencies through automation and logistics 
optimization, as well as a reversion to the mean of some of our cost structure, such as lower shipping 
container and fuel costs, are already beginning to be realized.   
As we look ahead, it’s just as important to take a moment and reflect on some of the significant changes 
that have occurred with our business and the economy over the last several years and determine which 
we expect to be more transitory vs permanent in nature.  
Our business and the broader economy have gone through several significant stages over the past few 
years. Prior to the pandemic, we made the decision to increase our investments in marketing, 
particularly in our flagship 1-800-Flowers and Harry & David brands, to accelerate revenue growth. This 
effort enabled us to accelerate our revenue growth rate from the low single-digit range in fiscal 2018 to 
double-digits during the latter half of fiscal 2020.  Additionally, we accelerated the growth of our most 
valuable asset, our customer file and our Celebrations Passport loyalty program during this period.  
With the advent of the COVID pandemic in the Spring of 2020 and the introduction of lockdowns, social 
distancing and the shift to remote work, we experienced an unprecedented surge in demand as 
customers looked to stay connected with the important people in their lives.  The resourcefulness and 
unwavering commitment of our team, coupled with the investments that we made in our business 
platform positioned us well to respond to this extraordinary environment.  This surge not only benefited 
our top and bottom-line results, but most importantly, grew our customer file to record levels. 
As the pandemic began to wane, we once again saw dramatic and sudden shifts in the macro economy 
and consumer behavior.  On one hand, we witnessed increased travel, dining out, group celebrations, 
along with other pent-up activities.  And on the other, we saw rapidly increasing inflation that affected 
customer demand, unprecedented disruptions in the global supply chain, geopolitical turmoil, and an 
extremely tight labor market – all o