2022  
Annual Report
MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
More than a decade ago, Aptiv recognized that demands 
for a safer, greener and more connected world would 
reshape the future of the automotive industry, and since 
that time we have continued to reﬁne and execute our 
strategy to capitalize on these megatrends. While the 
recent pandemic and supply chain challenges tested our 
resilience, our ability to meet customer demands and 
achieve record new bookings conﬁrmed the strength of 
our portfolio, the commitment of our global workforce 
and the value of our mission.
Today, the megatrends are accelerating, driven by the 
growing appeal of feature-rich, highly electriﬁed vehicles. 
Our ability to enable these advanced features at a price 
consumers can afford is a testament to our capabilities. 
We are uniquely positioned as the industry’s only full-
system solutions provider, which enables us to optimize 
the performance and cost of the solutions we develop. 
Each day, our products help customers solve their 
toughest challenges, support the sustainability of our 
planet and deliver long-term value for our shareholders. 
While we are proud of the resilient and innovative 
company that we have built, we are even more excited 
about how we are positioned for the future. 
DEMAND ACCELERATING FOR ELECTRIFIED, 
FEATURE-RICH VEHICLES
During 2022, battery electric vehicles (BEVs) accounted 
for approximately 10 percent of new-vehicle production, 
reﬂecting continued strong growth driven by more 
stringent government regulations and increasing 
consumer demand. As a result, we expect the market for 
high-voltage electriﬁcation to increase by more than  
20 percent annually between now and 2030.
The demand for higher levels of vehicle safety also 
increased, which is reﬂected in almost 20 percent of 
new vehicles built including Level 2 or higher advanced 
driver-assistance systems (ADAS). Multiple OEMs have 
now launched hands-free driving applications, many 
of which are enabled by Aptiv solutions that deliver 
greater levels of efﬁciency, ﬂexibility and robustness 
across the broadest possible range of driving scenarios.
2022 also saw a step-function increase in OEMs 
beginning the transition to next-generation hardware 
and software architectures. By 2030, we expect that 
nearly 1 out of every 4 vehicles produced will use a 
highly centralized, software-deﬁned architecture 
approach similar to the one Aptiv has been developing.
A CLEAR PATH FORWARD
Aptiv is leading the transformation in advanced 
vehicle architectures. This effort has been informed 
by the experience of launching more than 200 BEV 
architecture platforms and 60 high-complexity,  
software-intensive programs across more than  
20 OEMs — all while maintaining exceptional levels  
of quality and delivery.
Our Smart Vehicle Architecture™ (SVA™) solution, 
introduced in 2017, comprises hardware and software 
building blocks designed to efﬁciently enable new 
software-deﬁned functionality. We have worked with 
multiple global OEMs on advanced development 
programs. In doing so, we have leveraged our expertise 
in both the “brain” (software and compute) and 
the “nervous system” (power and data distribution) of 
the vehicle to serve as a trusted technology partner. 
This resulted in more than $4 billion in new SVA™ 
business awards during 2022 — up signiﬁcantly from 
less than $1 billion total when we entered the year. We 
continue to be recognized for our innovation. In 2022, 
we won our 25th Automotive News PACE Award for the 
central vehicle controller, a key component of SVA™.
At the same time, Aptiv’s high-voltage solutions are 
reducing weight and mass while also improving range 
and enabling faster charging — critical factors for 
BEV adoption. We have a comprehensive high-voltage 
portfolio, which we expanded during 2022 to include 
integrated power electronics. This solution combines six 
devices into one while also hosting battery management 
system software, and