2022 annual report
bridgewater bancshares, inc. 
Bridgewater Bancshares Inc.
, 
Bridgewater Bancshares, Inc. is a St. Louis Park, Minnesota-based 
financial holding company. Bridgewater’s banking subsidiary, 
Bridgewater Bank, is a premier, full-service Twin Cities bank 
dedicated to serving the diverse needs of commercial real estate 
investors, entrepreneurs, business clients and successful individuals.
BRIDGEWATER BANCSHARES, INC. 
WHO WE ARE
2022 AT A GLANCE
Ticker: BWB (Nasdaq)
Assets: $4.3 billion
Branches: 7
FTE Employees: 246
PPNR ROA: 2.06%
Loan Growth: 26.6%
Efficiency Ratio: 41.5%
NPAs/Assets: 0.01%
Tangible Book Value Per Share Growth: 6.5%
CORE VALUES
Unconventional 
 
Our clients notice a difference. 
Responsive
Under promise. Over deliver. 
Dedicated
Don’t stop until you get it done. 
Growth
If you aren’t moving forward, where are you going?
Accuracy
It’s more than just an expectation.
2022 AWARDS & RECOGNITION 
Star Tribune Top Workplaces | American Banker Best Banks to Work For | Twin Cities Business Best 
Business Bank | Finance & Commerce Reader Rankings Best Business Bank + Small Business Bank + 
Commercial Mortgage Lender | Piper Sandler Sm-All Stars Class of 2022 | Raymond James Community 
Bankers Cup | S&P Global Market Intelligence Fifth Best-Performing Community Bank
TABLE OF CONTENTS
3 Shareholder Letter
7 Environmental, Social & Governance
8 Financial Summary
    2022 Form 10-K
 Directors & Leadership 
 Shareholder Information
Represents a non-GAAP financial measure. See “GAAP Reconciliation and Management Explanation of Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures” in the accompanying 2022 Form 10-K for further details.
1
1
1
1
Bridgewater 
Bancshares, Inc. 
Jerry Baack
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS, 
Since our initial public offering in 2018, 
Bridgewater Bancshares, Inc. has delivered 
consistently strong financial results driven 
by a business model that has remained vir-
tually the same since we founded the bank. 
Last year was no different as we again saw 
robust loan growth, a high level of efficiency, 
superb asset quality and a corporate culture 
that continues to differentiate us in the mar-
ket. With a strong team in place and a proven 
strategy, we are poised to continue providing 
responsive service to our clients while gain-
ing market share. As we enter 2023 in a more 
uncertain economic environment, our team is 
taking a thoughtful approach to manage the 
balance sheet, optimize profitability and drive 
shareholder value over the long-term. 
A LOOK BACK AT 2022
2022 was again highlighted by the continued 
growth of the bank, not only in terms of the 
size of the balance sheet, which grew to $4.3 
billion, but also in terms of the investments 
made in our people, technology and the scal-
ability of the business. With the ongoing exe-
cution of our business model, we saw revenue 
increase by 18.5 percent and another year of 
overall record earnings. Our successes also 
resulted in tangible book value growth of 
6.5 percent, a key metric in how we measure 
shareholder value. This was especially impres-
sive in 2022 as rising interest rates negative-
ly impacted the value of securities portfolios 
across the industry and led to tangible book 
value dilution for many banks.  
Bridgewater’s ability to consistently generate 
robust loan growth has been a key differenti-
ator over the years. This continued into 2022 
as we saw total loan growth of 26.6 percent 
with growth spread across all of our portfo-
lios, led by multifamily and commercial real 
estate. Loan demand began to decline late 
in the year due to fewer deals penciling out 
as interest rates increased; however, with our 
3
deepening brand presence in the Twin Cities 
and the strong relationships we have built, we 
continued to win deals with high quality cli-
ents and projects.
Deposit growth was also strong with balances 
up 16 percent during the year. While our team 
has done a good job of generating stro