2022 Annual Report &
2023 Annual General and
Special Meeting Proxy
Statement
Dear Shareholders, 
2022 was a challenging year for DiaMedica, facing the headwinds of enrolling a clinical trial during 
a global pandemic combined with an unexpected voluntary pause in our ReMEDy2 Phase 2b/3 trial 
to further refine our dosing regimen of DM199. Despite these hurdles, I am pleased to report that the 
DiaMedica team has risen to the challenge to address these issues.  We remain steadfastly focused to 
bring DM199 to acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients – a leading cause of long-term disability and 
impairment in adults - and to provide the first new pharmaceutical therapy for AIS in more than 25 
years. 
Let us recap the key challenges we encountered related to our ReMEDy2 trial and the steps we have 
taken to resume full clinical trial activities. 
First, in early 2022, we were beginning to gain momentum in engaging clinical study sites and trial 
enrollment, both were drastically hindered by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. We were able 
to identify key operational bottlenecks and deploy additional resources to support our clinical teams 
to make it simpler for investigators and qualified patients to participate in the ReMEDy2 trial. Today, 
thankfully, we believe that the constraints that were created due to the COVID-19 crisis have 
markedly abated and we anticipate timelier study site engagement and patient enrollment when the 
ReMEDy2 trial resumes. 
Secondly, during the conduct of ReMEDy2 trial, three study participants were reported to experience 
a sudden drop in blood pressure, or hypotension, when the intravenous (IV) dose of DM199 was 
administered. Though DM199 is known to have blood pressure lowering effects, these episodes of 
sudden hypotension had not been observed in any prior clinical trial of DM199. The blood pressure 
of these participants recovered rapidly after the IV administration was discontinued, and the 
participants suffered no injuries; however, we had to further understand the cause of the unexpected 
hypotension. Therefore, in May 2022, we chose to voluntarily halt enrollment in the study until we 
could investigate the cause. After reporting these adverse events to the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), the FDA agreed with our decision to halt enrollment and issued a clinical 
hold for our ReMEDy2 trial. We have been in ongoing communication with the FDA to align with a 
comprehensive analysis plan.  I am pleased to report that we have recently completed the analysis 
and have identified the key issues that we believe will satisfy the FDA’s requirements and allow us to 
refine the dosing procedures. A final report to the FDA will be submitted along with a request to lift 
the clinical hold. 
While 2022 was challenging on the clinical front, we made significant strides in broadening the 
experience and capabilities of our management team. Kirsten Gruis, M.D. joined DiaMedica as our 
Chief Medical Officer, Dominic Cundari joined as our Chief Commercial Officer and Julie Daves 
joined as our Senior Vice President, Clinical Development Operations. Kirsten has over 20 years of 
experience in clinical medicine and drug development at both small and large biopharmaceutical 
companies, including as Head of the Neuromuscular Franchise at Roche.  Dom has over 30 years of 
experience at Genentech, where he led the product launch of ACTIVASE® (tissue plasminogen 
activator, or tPA) for acute ischemic stroke. Julie is a recognized leader in managing global clinical 
studies with over two decades of clinical development operations experience across a wide breadth of 
pharmaceutical therapeutic areas, including Phase 3 pivotal programs. 
We also added key regulatory expertise to our Board of Directors. In March 2023, Tanya Lewis, a 
recognized leader in the biopharma industry, with over 25 years of experience in global drug 
development, having played a key role in the approval of multiple new drugs, join