 
  
1 
Dear shareholders, colleagues, customers, and partners:  
We are living through a period of historic economic, societal, and geopolitical change. The world in 2022 looks nothing like 
the world in 2019. As I write this, inflation is at a 40-year high, supply chains are stretched, and the war in Ukraine is 
ongoing. At the same time, we are entering a technological era with the potential to power awesome advancements 
across every sector of our economy and society. As the world’s largest software company, this places us at a historic 
intersection of opportunity and responsibility to the world around us.  
Our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more has never been more 
urgent or more necessary. For all the uncertainty in the world, one thing is clear: People and organizations in every 
industry are increasingly looking to digital technology to overcome today’s challenges and emerge stronger. And no 
company is better positioned to help them than Microsoft.  
Every day this past fiscal year I have had the privilege to witness our customers use our platforms and tools to connect 
what technology can do with what the world needs it to do.  
Here are just a few examples:  
• 
Ferrovial, which builds and manages some of the world’s busiest airports and highways, is using our cloud 
infrastructure to build safer roads as it prepares for a future of autonomous transportation.  
• 
Peace Parks Foundation, a nonprofit helping protect natural ecosystems in Southern Africa, is using Microsoft 
Dynamics 365 and Power BI to secure essential funding, as well as our Azure AI and IoT solutions to help 
rangers scale their park maintenance and wildlife crime prevention work.  
• 
One of the world’s largest robotics companies, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, is using the breadth of our tools—
from Azure IoT and HoloLens—to create an industrial metaverse solution that brings its distributed workforce 
together with its network of connected equipment to improve productivity and keep employees safe.  
• 
Globo, the biggest media and TV company in Brazil, is using Power Platform to empower its employees to 
build their own solutions for everything from booking sets to setting schedules.  
• 
And Ørsted, which produces a quarter of the world’s wind energy, is using the Microsoft Intelligent Data 
Platform to turn data from its offshore turbines into insights for predictive maintenance.  
Amid this dynamic environment, we delivered record results in fiscal year 2022: We reported $198 billion in revenue and 
$83 billion in operating income. And the Microsoft Cloud surpassed $100 billion in annualized revenue for the first time.  
OUR RESPONSIBILITY  
As a corporation, our purpose and actions must be aligned with addressing the world’s problems, not creating new ones. 
At our very core, we need to deliver innovation that helps drive broad economic growth. We, as a company, will do well 
when the world around us does well.  
That’s what I believe will lead to widespread human progress and ultimately improve the lives of everyone. There is no 
more powerful input than digital technology to drive the world’s economic output. This is the core thesis for our being as a 
company, but it’s not enough. As we drive global economic growth, we must also commit to creating a more inclusive, 
equitable, sustainable, and trusted future.  
Support inclusive economic growth  
We must ensure the growth we drive reaches every person, organization, community, and country. This starts with 
increasing access to digital skills. This year alone, more than 23 million people accessed digital skills training as part of 
our global skills initiative.  
2 
  
But skills alone aren’t enough—we need to help people better prepare for and connect to jobs. That’s why we’ve 
committed to equip 10 million people from underserved communities with skills for jobs in the digital economy by 2025.  
One area of digital skills has become especi