 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infinera Corporation 
2023 Proxy Statement 
and  
2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K 
Dear Stockholders,
I am extremely pleased with our performance in 2022, especially in light of the macroeconomic impacts we faced 
throughout the year, from a lingering pandemic and persistent supply chain challenges to rising inflation and a conflict in 
Europe. Despite these headwinds, we delivered above-market growth, gained market share, improved our balance sheet 
and continued to expand profitability for the third consecutive year. The result was a year of significant achievements:
•
Delivered strong financial performance — in 2022, we grew company revenue by 10%, and within our stated 
objective of 8-12% growth, with product revenue growth of 15%. We set a record for revenue and increased 
operating margin by 230 basis points, positioning us well to achieve our long-term business model.
•
Drove substantial portfolio momentum and innovation — during the year, we ramped our flagship ICE6-based 
products to 28% of product revenue and ended the year with over 70 ICE6 customers, ranging from global service 
providers to internet content providers. We continued to build on our metro portfolio momentum, growing revenue 
for the flagship GX metro product by approximately 28% in the year. We also recently announced the availability of 
our ICE-X 100G and 400G-based pluggables and components, our next-generation 1.2 Terabit embedded optical 
engine, and the development of our 800G pluggable.
•
Improved customer experience — while aligning the organization to deliver increased value to our customers, we 
improved upon key metrics that reflect our commitment to delivering a superior customer experience and unlocking 
the value of true customer centricity.
Our performance in 2022 demonstrates that we are making solid progress with our strategy and our portfolio is 
resonating with our global customers. Our vertical integration capabilities and differentiation have resulted in greater security 
and control over our supply chain, enabling us to deliver our solutions to our customers with what we believe are competitive 
lead times. 
Our accomplishments this past year further underscore the dedication and talent of an exceptional global team that I 
am honored to lead, and the power of a culture we continue to strengthen through our commitment to diversity, inclusion, 
social responsibility, innovation and execution excellence. Our people remain our greatest asset and the heart of our 
success, and we continue to focus on their safety, well-being and career development and advancement as we drive the 
business forward.
We leverage our U.S.-based semiconductor fabrication plant and in-house packaging capabilities to provide our 
customers with a critical and secure source of U.S.-produced optical semiconductors and to consistently pioneer critical 
technology advancements in critical infrastructure. This helps our customers around the world successfully realize 
unprecedented levels of network efficiency, scalability and automation that empower these and other critical end-user 
applications. With a strategy to drive stockholder value in the years ahead, our progress in 2022 represents a tangible proof 
point that we are on the right trajectory to gain market share, continue to innovate to the delight of our customers and 
achieve our long-term business objectives.
We remain confident in our ability to create sustainable, long-term value for our stockholders, customers, partners, and 
employees as we advance our mission of delivering industry-leading innovation in open optical systems and coherent optical 
subsystems.
Your voting support of the proposals described in the accompanying proxy statement would be deeply appreciated as 
we work together to increase the value of your investment in Infinera. We thank you for your continued commitment to 
Infinera and belief in our team. 
Sincerely, 
David W. Heard
Chief Executive Officer
I