Ready
and
Resilient
2022 Annual Report
Aluminum is a critical material for the world’s 
economies, and we believe its importance will 
only increase as societies transition to sustainable 
solutions that demand light-weight, strong 
materials that can help reduce carbon emissions. 
Alcoa is well positioned for the future with our 
continuing focus on our purpose, vision, and 
values, which enables our strength and resilience 
to navigate through market cycles.
What we believe
2
Our Values: 
Act with Integrity  
Operate with Excellence  
Care for People 
Lead with Courage
Our values are clear and concise, setting the  
expectation for how we endeavor to operate  
around the globe, in every aspect of our  
business and in every market. 
Our Vision: 
To Reinvent the Aluminum  
Industry for a Sustainable Future
Our vision inspires our work—it influences  
how we produce products, develop new  
processes, interact with suppliers, customers,  
and communities. This vision also helps inspire  
our work on a roadmap of breakthrough  
technologies that have the potential to  
differentiate Alcoa and decarbonize the  
upstream aluminum value chain.
Our Purpose: 
To Turn Raw Potential  
into Real Progress
Our purpose informs every goal we set,  
decision we make, action we take, and  
strategy we implement. It supports our  
goal to unlock the true potential of our  
people, products, and processes to create 
value and move our Company and  
industry forward.
Alcoa 2022 Annual Report  |  3
Reduce 
Complexity
Operating with a lean,  
cost-focused approach
Actively managing our  
portfolio of assets to drive  
profitability through all phases  
of the commodity cycle 
Drive 
Returns
Driving margin-focused  
growth via our differentiated, 
value-add products
Improving commercial  
capabilities, leveraging  
quality, technical excellence,  
and delivery performance
Investing in targeted  
growth opportunities
Advance 
Sustainably
Championing environmental,  
social and governance  
processes across our operations 
Creating value and maintaining  
a strong balance sheet 
Developing breakthrough  
technologies that have the  
potential to decarbonize the  
aluminum value chain
Three strategic priorities drive our company forward and  
enable long-term value today and in the future
Strategic Priorities
Dear Stockholders,
The year 2022 was defined by volatility, both for 
Alcoa Corporation and the global commodity 
industry. The first half of the year saw historically  
high aluminum prices. But then global instability—
partly driven by the war in Ukraine and the resulting 
European energy crisis—upended markets in the 
second half of the year.
The year and its study in contrasts gave us another 
opportunity to demonstrate the strength and 
resiliency of our business. 
Across Alcoa, we have worked diligently to build a 
stronger foundation, and our work has made us a more 
agile and resilient business for the various phases of 
the commodity cycle. We are focused on delivering 
value today while continuing to focus on tomorrow.
Responding to short-term challenges
Issues stemming from the widespread global 
instability in 2022 shocked the aluminum market, 
but we acted swiftly. We reduced some production 
capacity—when and where conditions warranted. 
For example, to mitigate exorbitant energy costs, we 
curtailed one-third of our production capacity at our 
smelter in Lista, Norway and worked to sign a more 
competitive energy agreement for the future. 
Similarly, we also reduced the output at our alumina 
refinery in San Ciprián, Spain, due to high costs of 
natural gas. We also safely completed the curtailment 
of the smelter there in January of 2022, per the terms 
of an agreement signed in December of 2021. Since 
the curtailment, we have obtained two new wind-
based power purchase agreements that can supply 
up to three-fourths of the electricity at the smelter’s 
full capacity, assuming final permitting needed for 
construction. A progress