2022 Annual Report
MainStreet Bancshares, Inc.
May 2023
Dear Shareholder,
At MainStreet Bank, we’ve always operated with three core principles: 1) focus on what we do best, which
means don’t try to be all things to all people; 2) lead with high-quality service, not price; and 3) conservatively
anticipate and prepare for market changes.
The saying goes that when you try to be all things to all people, you end up being nothing to nobody. We are like
a high-end restaurant with a limited menu. The large banks are more akin to a corporate chain restaurant, which
can overwhelm you with selections – but when the menu is 32 pages long, the food has probably been frozen.
Since we are focused on what we do best, it is easy to compete with quality service over price. When you
compete on price, it is a race to the bottom for loan rates and a race to the top for deposit rates. Every successful
person I know is willing to pay a little more for consistent quality service.
Anticipating and preparing for opportunities in our niche market is its own exciting challenge. When rates started
coming down again in 2019, reaching historic lows in 2020, we knew that rates could either stay the same or go
up, but they couldn’t really go lower. We focused on shifting our balance sheet to favor a rising rate environment.
The rest, as they say, is history. The Federal Reserve raised interest rates 4.25 percent during 2022. I’m happy to
report that the balance sheet shifts we made leading up to 2022 positioned us for what became our best year ever!
We have another project with a longer lead-time that has yet to make its mark. Back in 2018, we started thinking
about the effect new technologies have on changing how people manage their money. We also thought a lot
about how community banks will retain their share of deposits with all the new choices coming on-line to help
consumers manage their money.
Without losing sight of what we do best, we focused on our Banking as a Service (BaaS) experience to design a
state-of-the-art embedded banking solution for our technology-savvy community. Our product – Avenuä – is
nearly ready for launch. Our goal for Avenuä is to generate low-cost deposits and fee income. We are full of
optimism for this solution and once it is fully launched, we look forward to sharing the results of our hard work
and efforts.
This is an exciting time to be in community banking – even more so as we continue to develop ourselves in the
financial technology space. This year we added one more core principle to the mix – stay relevant.
Thank you for your ongoing support. We are doing our best to create value and opportunity in our Company.
Sincerely,
Jeff W. Dick
Chairman & CEO
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
☒
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022
OR
☐
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM
TO
Commission File Number 001-38817
MainStreet Bancshares, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
Virginia
81-2871064
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
10089 Fairfax Boulevard
Fairfax, VA
22030
(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (703) 481-4567
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class
Trading
Symbol(s)
Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock
MNSB
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
Depositary Shares (each representing a 1/40th
interest in a share of 7.50% Series A Fixed-Rate Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock)
MNSBP
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. ye