2022 ANNUAL REPORT
Building a Distinct, 
Growing and Durable 
Global Wall Street Firm
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
From 2009 through 2021, the world was awash with incredibly cheap  
(in some cases, nearly free) capital, as friendly stimulus became the antidote 
to every financial problem rearing its ugly head. Even recent geopolitical 
trauma and a global pandemic were no match for the central bank 
printing presses of nations around the globe. Modest unemployment and 
non-existent inflation somehow cohabitated in harmony. In 2021, the 
environment was “near perfection” for Jefferies, as well as for many of our 
clients. With 2022 behind us, the dreamy days of easy money and nonstop 
“risk on” as a guiding mantra have passed into the history books. 
Before we get too melancholy, there are more than a few reasons for us to 
be optimistic, despite the industry-wide slowdown in 2022 and the litany 
of other crosscurrents we are still facing. At the top of our list is our belief 
that capital formation is not dead, it is just resting. It is incredibly difficult 
to price risk and capital when interest rate increases have no end in sight. 
This uncertainty makes everything freeze up and that is what happened in 
2022, with this freeze eventually working its way into the M&A market. 
The good news is that the pace and slope of interest rate increases appear 
to be declining, which implies, unless something unusual happens, we are 
closer to the thawing of the capital markets than the initial deep freeze. 
Investors understand this and will begin acting in anticipation of the new 
interest rate regime. As long as the stabilized rates aren’t unduly excessive 
(and thus far, it appears they will be navigable), the world will go back to 
pricing risk, as well as pursuing new capital formation and increased M&A. 
We have no crystal ball and don’t know if this will start at some point in 
2023 or 2024, but we are confident it is only a matter of time—it always is. 
Jefferies could not be better positioned for this eventuality. 
We have spent the last five years focusing on two goals: First, to do 
everything in our power to position Jefferies as the best full service 
global investment banking firm. Second, to optimize and monetize 
our legacy merchant banking portfolio and return to our shareholders 
any excess capital. In 2022, we finally crossed over to become a 
straightforward, highly focused and readily understandable pure-play 
investment banking firm. 
JANUARY 9, 2023
Capital formation  
is not dead, it is  
just resting. ...  
As long as the 
stabilized rates aren’t 
unduly excessive  
(and thus far, it 
appears they will 
be navigable), the 
world will go back 
to pricing risk, as 
well as pursuing new 
capital formation and 
increased M&A. ... 
Jefferies could not be 
better positioned for 
this eventuality.
JEFFERIES 2022 ANNUAL REPORT
2
#6
IN BOTH M&A AND  
ECM GLOBALLY
#7
GLOBALLY IN COMBINED 
M&A, ECM AND 
LEVERAGED FINANCE
$5.0 
Billion
CAPITAL RETURNED  
TO SHAREHOLDERS OVER  
THE LAST FIVE YEARS 
$1.1 
Billion
CAPITAL RETURNED TO 
SHAREHOLDERS IN 2022 
Ironically, 2022 also was the year that two of Jefferies’ most important 
businesses—IPOs and leveraged finance—were substantially closed 
due to unique market conditions. It is easy to think that this confluence 
of events is beyond frustrating and would cause us to question our 
original assumptions and strategic direction. For us, this could not be 
further from the truth. While part of our team was successfully wrapping 
up some additional legacy asset sales, preparing a major spin-off to 
shareholders and collapsing our holding company structure, the vast 
majority of our team did such a solid job that Jefferies’ overall results 
in 2022 were incredibly respectable. Not only were we able to deliver a 
10.3% return on adjusted tangible equity in a “really tough year,” but more 
importantly, we continued to build upon the significant investments in 
people and infrastruct