2022 Annual Report
Dear Fellow Shareholder, 
 
We are pleased to provide you an update on the progress of your investments in ACRES 
Commercial Realty Corp. (“ACR” or the “Company”). During the past year, our manager has 
continued to make progress on the core tenets of its responsibilities to manage the existing assets 
in the portfolio, originate new loan assets, facilitate the financing of the assets, and control costs 
to drive earnings and increase book value per share. We are pleased to report that substantial 
progress has been made on all fronts and we remain focused on these mandates going forward.   
The ACRES team continued to diligently manage our assets and provide exceptional service for 
our borrowers. We worked proactively with these borrowers to address their needs so that they 
could maintain payments on their loans. These efforts have resulted in a high-quality, stabilized 
book to build on.  
We are proud of the success we achieved in 2022 and are optimistic in our ability to deliver 
shareholder value over the long term. 
 
Selective Growth & Attractive Financing Vehicles 
During 2022, we selectively grew the Company’s loan portfolio by leveraging ACRES’s 
complementary lending pipeline and network of sponsor relationships. We are pleased to note that 
we closed over $610 million of commercial real estate first-mortgage commitments in 2022.  
Additionally, we carefully pursued opportunities to make direct equity investments in real estate 
in 2022, ultimately acquiring two properties for a total of $51.6 million. We expect that these 
investments may yield enhanced returns in the long term that, we will be able to substantially 
shield from taxes due to the existence of ACR’s considerable tax assets and ultimately reinvest 
into the loan origination pipeline. 
We recognize that building on this momentum is essential. Therefore, the ACRES team is vigilant 
in identifying and executing on opportunities to grow asset-specific financing with duration at 
attractive coupon rates that can raise our capacity to originate loans. In addition, we have the 
reinvestment window available on our two ACR securitizations through May 2023 and December 
2023. The bulk of the Company’s current portfolio was originated in 2021 and 2022, comprising 
84% of the current par balance and have initial maturities of 2024 or later and extended maturities 
of 2026 or later. 
 
Portfolio Stability 
The ACRES asset management team prides itself on its ability to tailor solutions that will keep 
borrowers on track despite challenges that may arise. Current volatility and uncertainty in the 
market have proved to be such challenges, but ones we’ve been able to manage as a result of our 
proactive asset management approach.  
Thanks to our asset management team, we’ve reduced our watch list to 5% of the loan portfolio at 
the end of 2022, down from 8% at the end of 2021. In January 2023, one watch list loan, a hotel 
portfolio in the southwest region with a par value of $56.5 million was paid off in full, which 
reduced the value of our watch list loans in half as compared to year end 2022.   
As of December 31, 2022, 95% of the loan portfolio was performing in line or near underwritten 
expectations and a significant majority of loans were current on contractual payments, which is an 
improvement from 92% at December 31, 2021. 
As of December 31, 2022, 100% of our loan portfolio by carrying value earned a floating rate of 
interest and was financed entirely with liabilities that both pay interest at floating rates. 
Additionally, 89% of the par value of our floating-rate loan portfolio was covered by borrower-
owned interest rate caps that provided additional credit protection to the Company in the current 
rising interest rate environment. 
 
Capital Markets Flexibility 
We worked closely with our lenders and executed as planned to provide the Company maximum 
flexibility given the challenging business environment in 2022.   
We finaliz