2023 PROXY STATEMENT
|
2022 ANNUAL REPORT
CONTENTS
Proxy Statement
Forward-Looking Statements
Stock Performance
Investment Summary
Financial Information
Corporate Data
Environmental Statement
LIBERTY BROADBAND CORPORATION
12300 Liberty Boulevard
Englewood, Colorado 80112
(720) 875-5700
DEAR FELLOW STOCKHOLDER:
You are cordially invited to attend the 2023 annual meeting of stockholders of
Liberty Broadband Corporation (Liberty Broadband) to be held at 8:30 a.m.,
Mountain time, on June 6, 2023. The annual meeting will be held via the Internet
and will be a completely virtual meeting of stockholders. You may attend the
meeting, submit questions and vote your shares electronically during the meeting
via the Internet by visiting www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/LBRD2023. To
enter the annual meeting, you will need the 16-digit control number that is printed
on your Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or proxy card. We
recommend logging in at least fifteen minutes before the meeting to ensure that
you are logged in when the meeting starts. Online check-in will start shortly before
the meeting on June 6, 2023.
At the annual meeting, you will be asked to consider and vote on the proposals
described in the accompanying notice of annual meeting and proxy statement, as
well as on such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
Your vote is important, regardless of the number of shares you own. Whether or
not you plan to attend the annual meeting, please read the enclosed proxy
materials and then promptly vote via the Internet or telephone or by completing,
signing and returning the proxy card if you received a paper copy of the proxy
materials by mail. Doing so will not prevent you from later revoking your proxy or
changing your vote at the meeting.
Thank you for your cooperation and continued support and interest in Liberty
Broadband.
Very truly yours,
Gregory B. Maffei
President and Chief Executive Officer
April 21, 2023
The Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials is first being mailed on or
about April 25, 2023, and the proxy materials relating to the annual meeting will
first be made available on or about the same date.
NOTICE OF 2023 ANNUAL MEETING OF
STOCKHOLDERS
Notice is hereby given of the annual meeting of stockholders of Liberty Broadband Corporation (Liberty Broadband). The
annual meeting will be held via the Internet and will be a completely virtual meeting of stockholders.
MEETING DATE & TIME
VIRTUAL MEETING LOCATION
RECORD DATE
June 6, 2023,
at 8:30 am MT
You may attend the meeting, submit questions and vote your
shares electronically during the meeting via the Internet by
visiting www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/LBRD2023
5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on April 10,
2023
To enter the annual meeting, you will need the 16-digit control number that is printed on your Notice of Internet Availability of
Proxy Materials or proxy card. We recommend logging in at least fifteen minutes before the meeting to ensure that you are logged
in when the meeting starts. Online check-in will start shortly before the meeting on June 6, 2023.
At the annual meeting, you will be asked to consider and vote on the following proposals. Our Board of Directors (Board or
Board of Directors) has unanimously approved each proposal for inclusion in the proxy materials.
PROPOSAL
BOARD
RECOMMENDATION
PAGES
1
A proposal (which we refer to as the election of directors proposal) to elect Gregg L.
Engles, John C. Malone and John E. Welsh III to continue serving as Class III members of
our Board until the 2026 annual meeting of stockholders or their earlier resignation or
removal.
FOR each director
nominee
14-22
2
A proposal (which we refer to as the auditors ratification proposal) to ratify the selection
of KPMG LLP as our independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2023.
FOR
34-35
You may also be asked to consider and vote on such other business as may properly come before the annual meeting.
We describ