 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 
 
NOTICE OF MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT 
FOR THE 2023 ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 
2022 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CoreCard Corporation 
 
To the Shareholders of CoreCard Corporation, 
 
It was an interesting year for shareholders of the company as they have followed the path of the CCRD share price. Normally, I 
don’t even talk about stock prices as they are not in the realm of what management can control but the last couple of years has 
been, to say the least, interesting. It seems like for a while we had collective hallucination that money was always free, and we 
lived in a world with endless liquidity. Valuation of companies formerly relied on PE (Profit/Earning) but in this era companies get 
higher values without any E (Earnings). Stock prices, including ours, did not reflect any historical reality. We would say the same 
when the stock was extraordinarily high ($50+) as when it was very low (~$20).  As someone said, free money is like a virus that 
turns the brain to mush!  
 
Our stock performance was excellent the past year in comparison with the other modern fintech companies. While disappointed 
at moments in time with how we are valued, it is good to know that our financial performance is recognized and valued as we 
have an important E when looking at PE! 
 
We are old school and still believe discounted cash flow is an important measure of value along with appropriate adjustments. 
We do not risk capital gratuitously and we build for endurance while avoiding that which may be the current fleeting trend of the 
month. The customer is always first and slightly ahead of shareholders and employees because we believe to do otherwise 
would destroy value for all. We strive to make ourselves indispensable to our customers while keeping a long-term focus. 
Indispensable means they absolutely want to do business with us because of the premium capabilities they see in CoreCard and 
not because they have no other choices. 
 
We also believe management should be held accountable for setting reasonable expectations and doing what they said they 
would do. And stock price should take that into account. Trust is important for shareholders, customers, and employees. We 
strive to hit the mark with all three.   
 
Last year we achieved a new high in revenues and earnings and we have started the new year strong as expected but without 
another large chunk of license revenue (also as expected). We continue on the “journey” that I spoke about in the letter last year 
and see our revenue from sources other than our largest customer continuing to grow. This will help with potential shareholders 
who focus on the risk of customer concentration. 
 
I know our foundation is solid and strong and often say we are building the company brick by brick. That may seem contradictory 
this year as we know we will have less license revenue so it is highly unlikely we will achieve the same revenues and earnings in 
2023 as achieved in 2022.  But in reality, all of our business is expected to grow other than the license revenue. Perhaps keeping 
the “brick by brick” analogy, we are putting a door or window in the building instead of another brick. 
 
While I am not going to walk down the path of many larger CEO letters where they opine on the macro markets and make 
predictions (often wrong or meaningless), I will say the banking turmoil experienced in the first quarter 2023 can possibly have 
some impact on your company. It would be easy to predict the executive in charge of their bank card programs reporting that 
they have decided to move from a legacy processor to a more modern processor (CoreCard) and the bank board of directors 
saying “NO - don’t rock the boat. We don’t want any attention!” But, if it happens, it will also pass as the macro environment 
changes. 
 
One of the bits of advice I give start-ups (I have worked with Georgia Tech and many others over the yea