Mission Statement and Key Aspects – BD4BO
Improve health outcomes and healthcare systems in Europe by maximising the potential of Big Data.
Key aspects of the BD4BO Programme:
•Ambitious: Leverage Big Data's power for healthcare systems, including improved access, analysis and harmonisation of Big Data.
•Transformational: Big Data has the potential to transform healthcare across the entire pathway for every stakeholder, with the ultimate outcome of improved patient care and value.
•Collaborative: BD4BO provides a framework for PPPs to combine and expand new/existing data sources, build analytic capabilities and establish common standards.
•Disease-specific: cardiovascular diseases, haematological malignancies, Alzheimer's disease and prostate cancer.
•Patient-centric: Patients play a key role as consortium members and contributors, and are the ultimate beneficiaries of improved outcomes delivered by BD4BO.
Shooting the Messenger: The Case of ADHD - Springer
Journal of Contemporary PsychotherapyOn the Cutting Edge of Modern Developments in Psychotherapy© The Author(s) 201310.1007/s10879-013-9244-x
Gretchen LeFever Watson1 , Andrea Powell Arcona1 , David O. Antonuccio2 and David Healy3
Safety and Learning Solutions, Norfolk, VA, USA
University of Nevada School of Medicine, Las Vegas, NV, USA
Cardiff University, Bangor, Wales, UK
Gretchen LeFever Watson (Corresponding author)
Email: gblefever@gmail.com
Email: gwatsonphd@gmail.com
Andrea Powell Arcona
Email: aarcona@tcc.edu
Email: dantonuccio@medicine.nevada.edu
Email: david.healy54@googlemail.com
ADHD Overdiagnosis Behavioral intervention Prescription drug abuse Conflict of interest Academic freedom Key opinion leader Child development Public health psychology
In the course of this work, LeFever was repeatedly attacked for reporting high rates of ADHD diagnosis and treatment. One of the attacks came in the form of an anonymous allegation of scientific misconduct and resulted in the premature termination of LeFever's work, including her part of a multi-site, multi-million dollar study funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) (Lenzer 2005a , b ). The anonymous letter alleged that LeFever had falsely reported high rates of ADHD diagnosis to suit her own personal anti-medication agenda. Besides the outright fallaciousness of the anonymous charge, there was then—and is now—ample evidence to support LeFever's findings regarding high rates of ADHD diagnosis and drug treatment. Nonetheless, the ad hominem attacks had a damaging impact.
The long-standing ADHD debate had experienced a period of relative quiet until LeFever and colleagues documented high rates of ADHD drug treatment in the mid-1990s. They found that 8–10 % of children in southeastern Virginia, including 17 % of white boys, were being medicated in school for ADHD (LeFever et al. 1999 ). In one district, 63 % of children who were young for their grade were medicated for ADHD—suggesting a widespread failure to distinguish between disorder and developmentally normal variation. These findings were based on a large-scale and rigorous epidemiologic study of 29,734 children and were published in a prestigious journal—the American Journal of Public Health (AJPH) (LeFever et al. 1999 ). The study drew national and international media attention. LeFever and colleagues conducted a follow-up study that was expanded to include rates of ADHD diagnosis and drug treatment that were not captured by school nurse records (LeFever et al. 2002 ).
Whether relying on school nurse records or parent report, approximately 9 % of students received a dose of ADHD medication in school during regular school hours (LeFever et al. 2002 ). However, twice as many children had ADHD according to parent report compared to school nurse records—namely, 17 % of all students in grades two through five and 19 % in grades one through five (LeFever et al. 2003 ). Among the 17 % of students whose parents said they had ADHD, 84 % had also taken medication for the disorder. Over one-quarter of these students were taking two or more types of psychotropic drugs simultaneously—the most common drug combination involved a psychostimulant like Ritalin or Adderall and an antidepressant like Prozac. Rates were three times as high among boys compared to girls, and twice as high among white children compared to black children. As such, 33 % of white boys (grades 2–5) were purported to have ADHD.
Despite high rates of drug treatment among children identified as having ADHD, their educational outcomes were poor. The students who with reported ADHD were 3–7 times more likely than their peers to experience adverse educational outcomes as defined by repeating a grade, needing special education services, and being expelled and/or suspended. Outcomes were significantly worse among students who had been medicated for ADHD compared to those with ADHD and never medicated for the condition (LeFever et al. 2002 ). As provocative as these findings might seem, it was ultimately LeFever's reporting of high rates of drug treatment that were called into question.
The School Health Initiative for Education (SHINE) was a regional coalition that LeFever formed in partnership with diverse providers, policy makers, parents, and other community members (LeFever et al. 1999 ). Through regular meetings that were open to the public, the coalition facilitated and conducted parent, teacher, and provider surveys, focus groups, key informant interviews, and analysis of new and extant databases. Based on an extensive community needs assessment, the coalition identified four major gaps in ADHD care: (1) systematic behavior management, (2) school-provider communication, (3) teacher training and education, and (4) parent training and support (LeFever et al. 2000 ). LeFever obtained local, state, and federal grant support to implement and evaluate the effectiveness of interventions for each of the community's self-identified gaps.
With funding from the U.S. Department of Education, LeFever and colleagues implemented a school-wide positive discipline program that resulted in ADHD symptoms decreasing among an elementary school population from the beginning to the end of the school year. This study also documented that teachers who adopted positive classroom management strategies—as evidenced by objective behavioral ratings that achieved a 95 % inter-rater reliability—had students who scored significantly higher on every subject area of the Standards of Learning tests administered to public school students across the state of Virginia (LeFever and Allen 2004 ; LeFever et al. 2004 ).
With funding from the Virginia Department of Education, LeFever and colleagues developed a program to facilitate communication—with parental permission—between parents and providers of children who were diagnosed with and/or treated for ADHD. The coalition also developed a single-page ADHD Diagnostic Checklist to remind or apprise parents, school personnel, and providers of the necessary steps to completing a comprehensive ADHD diagnostic assessment process. SHINE members also successfully developed a bill that was passed by the Virginia legislature that prohibited teachers from recommending ADHD medication to parents (LeFever 2008 ).
Interestingly, parents in the region reported greater satisfaction with behavioral interventions than drug treatment, although their children were far more likely to receive drug treatment than other interventions (LeFever 2008 ). To expand participation in parent training, LeFever and colleagues used local, state, and federal funding to develop and implement a unique approach to marketing parenting classes. The program—the A+ Behavior Program: Helping Your Student Excel in School and at Home—experienced unprecedented levels of parent participation. It was so well received that five school districts in southeastern Virginia arranged for their psychologists to receive training and supervision to deliver the program across the region. Some of the participants in this train-the-trainer program were affiliated with a clinical psychology internship that offered a public health psychology tract that LeFever, along with Virginia Beach City Public Schools, spearheaded and led to become the first-ever public health psychology internship in the country—a program that was approved by the American Psychological Association (APA).
These community-oriented interventions appeared to be making a difference. Between 1998 and 2004, southeastern Virginia witnessed a significant (32 %) decrease in the rate of ADHD diagnosis. Among children in first through fifth grade, it declined from a high of 19 % in 1998 to 13 % in 2004 (LeFever and Allen 2004 ). Unfortunately, the APA-approved internship in public health psychology, the SHINE Coalition, and projects described above were terminated as a result of unjustified attacks on LeFever's research findings.
As outlined below, the allegation and corollary repercussions led the medical school to threaten to fire LeFever. Thirty-nine psychiatrists and psychologists responded in outrage by signing a petition expressing to the EVMS Dean that LeFever should have been commended and promoted for having the courage to be among the first to sound the alarm (Lenzer 2005b ). LeFever was eventually cleared of all charges of scientific misconduct, honored with a sabbatical, and supported by the Dean for promotion to Full Professor (Lenzer 2005a ). Nonetheless, the "chopping block" experience "derailed" LeFever's career (Whitaker 2010 ).
Attacks on health researchers who are at odds with the pharmaceutical industry are not new (Healy 2002 ). As noted in a New England Journal of Medicine article (Deyo et al. 1997 ), there is a pattern to such attacks. Individuals who initiate them have financial interests in maintaining the legitimacy of a medical model of illness or a particular treatment. They have used allegations of scientific misconduct and the media, as well administrative and legal assaults, to malign the integrity of researchers and their findings—all of which LeFever experienced. The authors noted that in one documented case, a trial lawyer sponsored a workshop promoting the use of allegations of scientific misconduct as a weapon for disputing unwelcome research findings.
Regarding ADHD research, LeFever is not the only scientist who experienced malicious attacks. Nadine Lambert, a renowned school psychologist, endured a similar experience. Lambert created a stir when she reported to the National Institutes of Health that children who were treated with stimulant medications like Ritalin started smoking cigarettes earlier, smoked more heavily, and were more likely as adults to abuse cocaine than were those not taking ADHD medications (Lambert 1999 ). These results were based on the culmination of a 30-year longitudinal study of 492 children—about half of which had been diagnosed with ADHD. Like LeFever, Lambert was falsely accused of scientific misconduct (Diller 2005 ). Although eventually cleared, the allegation derailed her research—research that was never resurrected before Lambert died in a tragic 2006 head-on collision with a truck.
These are not isolated incidents. There are many other examples of scientists who have been harassed, bullied, or had their jobs threatened because they stood up to industry and refused to let data be buried our spun (Blumsohn 2006 ; Healy 2002 , 2008 ; Marks et al. 1993 ; Monbiot 2002 ; Nathan and Weatherall 2002 ; Thompson et al. 2001 ).
Over the years, LeFever's most outspoken national critic has been clinical psychologist Russell Barkley, Ph.D. Barkley is known in the field as a key opinion leader. An industry-sponsored 'opinion leader', or 'key opinion leader' refers to someone who is an active media user and who interprets the meaning of subject-specific information for the broader public (Elliott 2010 ). The pharmaceutical industry makes liberal use of key opinion leaders, and Barkley may be the best-known ADHD key opinion leader the industry has courted. Although such individuals can be patient advocates, they run the risk of becoming a marketing spokesperson for the industry—unwittingly or otherwise.
Barkley repeatedly criticized LeFever based on what he has expressed to be the unpalatable nature of her findings rather than offering substantive criticism of her research methodology or data analysis. Given Barkley's prominence as an established and leading scientist and clinician in the field of ADHD, his comments about exaggerated emerging prevalence trends carried weight. It is unclear how many people knew then (or realize now) the significance of the fact that a sizeable proportion of Barkley's taxable income came from the pharmaceutical industry. Barkley's own website once showed, for example, that approximately 8 % of his taxable income came from Eli Lilly alone. Eli Lilly manufactures Strattera, a commonly prescribed medication for ADHD. Other income categories that were explicitly tied to the pharmaceutical industry accounted for approximately 19 % of his income (LeFever 2007 ). Like other ADHD opinion leaders, Barkley also has had extensive support from Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorders (CHADD)—a prominent advocacy group that is supported with funds from the manufacturers of ADHD medications.
Barkley's criticism of LeFever began as early as 1996 when LeFever first shared her findings of high ADHD drug treatment rates (findings that would eventually be published in AJPH) with leading healthcare providers in southeastern Virginia. In response to growing concerns about ADHD treatment trends, EVMS pediatric faculty invited Barkley to address the topic as the keynote speaker for the region's annual pediatric meeting. The annual professional meeting included a talk that was open to the public. As a recognized authority on a topic of great concern to the general public, Barkley drew a huge crowd for his public address. Barkley contended that ADHD was a genetic disorder that was not being overdiagnosed or overtreated, but that most children with ADHD were not receiving medication when they should have been (Tennant 1996 ).
The following year, in 2002, Barkley published a paper declaring that individuals who questioned the rising rates of ADHD diagnosis and treatment represented "social critics and fringe doctors." He invited at least 85 psychologists and psychiatrists to co-sign the paper. In the paper, which he titled the International Consensus Statement on ADHD, Barkley dismissed people who expressed a point of view that was contrary to his as "tantamount to declaring the earth [Earth] flat, the laws of gravity as debatable, and the periodic table a fraud" (Barkley and 84 other behavioral scientists 2002 , p. 3).
The following year (2003) another international group of mental health professionals responded by publishing a critique of Barkley's statement (Timimi et al. 2004 ). Their critique began by asking why a group of eminent psychiatrists and psychologists would produce a consensus statement that sought to forestall debate on the merits of widespread ADHD diagnosis and drug treatment. They asserted that shutting down debate prematurely was completely counter to the spirit and practice of science and reminded readers that one generation's most cherished therapeutic ideas and practices are often repudiated by the next generation, but not without leaving countless victims in their wake. This critique referenced LeFever's AJPH study findings as evidence against Barkley's ongoing assertion that less than half the children who need ADHD medication are receiving medications (Timimi et al. 2004 ). Barkley responded strongly with a published rebuttal (Barkley et al. 2004 ).
Barkley's rebuttal to the Timimi et al. critique of his consensus on ADHD (Barkley et al. 2004 ) failed to cite numerous studies that supposedly supported his argument. The one study that he did choose to identify was Tim Tjersland's doctoral dissertation. This dissertation study was methodologically flawed and remains unpublished nearly a decade after completion (Tjersland 2004 ). Barkley misrepresented the dissertation research as a replication study of LeFever's AJPH research and inaccurately reported that it found prevalence rates near three percent in southeastern Virginia. Not only was Tjersland's study not a true replication study, it did not produce the findings that Barkley described. If anything, Tjersland's results corroborated LeFever's findings. Of note, Barkley himself was part of Tjersland's dissertation committee. Based on this methodologically flawed and unpublished study, Barkley claimed that LeFever's findings from multiple peer-reviewed and published studies were so questionable that they "deserve investigation" (Barkley et al. 2004 , p. 68).
Scientific or research misconduct is defined as fabrication or falsification of research, plagiarism, or other practices that deviate significantly from what is commonly accepted within the scientific community research. It does not pertain to honest error or differences in interpretations or judgments of data (Office of Research Integrity 1997 , p. 3).
Although the journal determined that the error in LeFever's publication was too minor to warrant a corrective statement, the Editor subsequently contacted LeFever to share that a reporter (Bill Sizemore of The Virginian Pilot) had repeatedly asked her to publish the error statement. Phelps lamented to LeFever that she and her co-Editor, who also felt that the error was too minor to warrant any action, finally decided to turn the matter over to the publishing house. The journal's publishing house decided for the sake of public relations/business reasons—not for reasons pertaining to scientific integrity—that they would publish a brief error statement in the next issue of the journal (Phelps, personal communication, January 2005; April 2007), which appeared in a subsequent issue (LeFever et al. 2005 ).
On or about December 9, 2004, a Virginia Beach school district official reportedly complained to the EVMS Dean that LeFever had misled her about procedures to obtain parental consent for her CDC-funded epidemiologic survey study that was underway in area school districts. This allegation was false and wholly unsupported by the record. Fear on the part of school officials of possible legal action and press scrutiny apparently created an atmosphere in which the self-preservation instinct overcame solid factual analysis of what transpired. The unsubstantiated claim by a school official that she had been misled about LeFever's research protocol and consent procedures was the straw that broke the camel's back. The ordeal and looming threat of a scandalous newspaper expose about local ADHD research had the potential to become a public relations nightmare for the medical school and collaborating school districts. On December 14, 2004, the very newly appointed and Interim Dean of the medical school (under advisement from attorneys who may not have appreciated the full academic impact of their legal positions) permanently terminated LeFever's research, placed her on administrative leave (Lenzer 2005b ) and wrote to public school officials promising that the study data would never be used for any purpose.
A long-anticipated newspaper "expose" of LeFever's "wrongdoing" was finally published on January 25, 2005 (Sizemore 2005 ). The reporter failed to mention his role in pressuring the journal to publish the statement despite the fact that the editor had determined that it was unnecessary and was inconsequential to the study's findings and conclusions. This public relations fiasco effectively extinguished any chances of LeFever re-kindling relationships that were vital to the continuation and success of her work.
As such, the article brought an end to ADHD research and community-based interventions in southeastern Virginia—work that might have served as a model for improving mental health care in other communities dealing with high rates of diagnosis and drug treatment. The newspaper story quoted a local psychologist with ties to CHADD who was concerned that LeFever's work frightened parents away from seeking appropriate treatment for their children and Barkley who described LeFever's findings as "highly suspicious" (Sizemore 2005 ). The net effect was that a decade of LeFever's research and community work described earlier was dismantled, and the ADHD debate was significantly quieted in the ensuing years.
The pharmaceutical industry and its key opinion leaders were apparently successful in quelling our nation's concerns about high rates of ADHD drug treatment. Since 2005, we have witnessed a message shift from "the rate of ADHD drug treatment is not too high" to "a high rate of ADHD drug treatment is not too concerning" (Scudder 2011 ).
In the years following the shutdown of LeFever's work, CDC reports documented continual increases in the rate of ADHD diagnosis and drug treatment (CDC 2010 ; Sondik et al. 2012 ). The CDC has reported that 11 % of American children are currently diagnosed with ADHD (CDC 2013 ) and that 14 % will receive a diagnosis of ADHD before the end of childhood (i.e., by 15–17 years of age) (CDC 2010 ). This national rate of ADHD diagnosis is now up to 50 % higher than the rate that was reported by LeFever in AJPH over a decade ago (8–10 %)—the rate that once sparked national and international debate. Calculations based on 2010 CDC data also suggest that nearly 20 % of American boys are now diagnosed with ADHD by 15–17 years of age (CDC 2013 ). Similar trends were found in 2011 (Sondik et al. 2012 ). These reports and the most recent CDC data (CDC 2013 ) also documented that ADHD diagnosis and treatment rates continue to vary widely by geographic region as documented more than a decade ago (e.g., Morrow et al. 1998 ). The most recent CDC data indicate that ADHD is now the most prevalent mental health diagnosis among children 3–17 years of age, with rates that vary substantially by state (from a low of 5.6 % in Nevada to a high of 15.6 % in North Carolina) (CDC 2013 ). Due to within state variation, some communities probably have experienced rates of diagnosis that are notably higher than the national average of 14 % or the state high of 15.6 %. Yet, there has been limited professional or public outcry about the ever-rising rate of ADHD diagnosis and drug treatment.
More disturbing than the high level of psychostimulant drug treatment is the growing numbers of children who are being prescribed an ever-widening formulary of powerful psychotropic drugs to treat ADHD. For example, prescriptions for antidepressants (which are often added to psychostimulant treatment regimens for children with ADHD have increased over 400 % in recent years (Pratt et al. 2011 ). Antipsychotic drug prescriptions—prescriptions for drugs like Risperdal that historically have been reserved for treatment of adults with schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders—increased eight-fold among children during the last two decades (1993-2009) (Olfson et al. 2012 ) with the nation's poorest children among the most common recipients (e.g., Zito et al. 2013 ). Data collected between 2005 and 2009 reveal that, of all children's physician office visits, almost 2 % result in the prescription of an antipsychotic drug. The rate is almost 4 % for adolescents and skyrockets to 30 % when the visit involves a psychiatrist (Olfson et al. 2012 ). Between 2005 and 2007, the state of Florida witnessed a 250 % increase in the prescription of antipsychotic drugs for children (Farley 2007 ). This included 1,100 Medicaid children as young as 3 years of age. Many such prescriptions are specifically for children carrying a diagnosis of ADHD (Matone et al. 2012 ); others are likely prescribed for iatrogenic effects of ADHD drug treatment (Whitaker 2010 ).
As alarming as these trends are in and of themselves, there is yet another (and more disturbing) layer to the story of ADHD treatment trends. Many children are being treated with more than one psychotropic drug at a time (Mojtabai and Olfson 2010 ; Zonfrillo et al. 2005 ). If one drug is dangerous on its own, certainly combining two drugs increases the risk of harm exponentially. There is little research clearly investigating these effects, but emerging data suggests significant risk (Mojtabai and Olfson 2010 ; Zonfrillo et al. 2005 ). The documented rate of diagnosis is now so high and the use of a host of psychotropic drugs so prevalent that it should raise concern among all healthcare professionals, child advocates, and parents.
The more a drug is prescribed, the more it is available for diversion and abuse. Research has shown that as early as 15 years ago in some communities, up to 16 % of elementary through high school students had been approached by classmates to share or sell their ADHD medications (Musser et al. 1998 ); 5 years later, up to 23 % of middle and high school students had been approached (McCabe et al. 2004 ). By 2006, 34 % of students attending a large southeastern college reported using ADHD drugs illegally (DeSantis et al. 2008 ). The ubiquitous availability of ADHD medications on high school and college campuses has led many teens and young adults to perceive drugs like Adderall to be benign for academic enhancement (e.g., Desantis and Hane 2010 ; DeSantis et al. 2008 , 2010 ; Wish et al. 2005 ). They also view these drugs as relatively safe for recreational use and freely mix them with alcohol (e.g., Desantis and Hane 2010 ; DeSantis et al. 2008 )—a potentially lethal combination. Growing numbers of students are now sharing, swapping, stealing, and abusing ADHD medications. Not surprisingly, increases in ADHD prescriptions have been associated with a parallel escalation in abuse of ADHD drugs.
Analysis of national poison control data for 1998–2005 showed a sharp increase in the number of children between 13 and 19 years of age who were reported to poison control due to ADHD medication abuse—an increase that was disproportionately higher than drug abuse generally or for teen substance abuse in particular (Setlik et al. 2009 ). The severity of cases also increased over time, particularly for amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) compared to methylphenidates (e.g., Ritalin) (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 2013 ). Nationwide, emergency department visits for adverse reactions to prescription use of such drugs as well as illicit use of such drugs also increased between 2005 and 2009 (National Institute of Drug Abuse 2011 ).
Even when used as prescribed, ADHD drug treatment often brings with it adverse side effects. The side effects may include undermining of an individual's motivation to take other steps to address behavioral issues, deflating of one's sense of self-efficacy, and/or flattening of one's affect or natural exuberance. ADHD drugs also carry the potential for side effects such as sleep disturbance and growth suppression, as well as more serious side effects like elevated risk for drug dependence, psychosis, cardiac arrest, and violence against oneself or others (Moore et al. 2010 ). Between 2004 and 2011, there were more than 11,000 cases of psychotropic drug side effects related to violent actions reported to the FDA's MedWatch system. And these are only the side effects that are reported to the FDA, which constitute only an estimated 1–10 % of actual occurrences.
Despite the fact the FDA requires that mainstream ADHD stimulant drugs carry a "black box" warning label noting the drugs' risks for addiction, psychosis, and cardiac arrest, many professionals, parents, and patients underestimate the power of prescription pills due to "successful" marketing campaigns (e.g., Lacasse and Leo 2009 ). Popular media have also aided the pharmaceutical industry's overselling of the benefits of ADHD drugs (Gonon et al. 2012 ). Findings that emerged from our country's epic MTA Study (Kollins et al. 2006 ; Richters et al. 1995 )—a large-scale, longitudinal study funded by the National Institutes of Health—showed that: (a) the benefits of drug treatment (even carefully monitored drug treatment) faded over time while the benefits of behavioral treatment endured (Pelham and Fabiano 2008 ); (b) drug treatment was not effective as delivered as part of routine community care (Greenhill et al. 2001 ); (c) drug treatments did not result in better academic outcomes (Molina et al. 2009 ); (d) over time, behavioral interventions were more effective than drug treatment (Pelham and Fabiano 2008 ) and (e) when behavioral interventions were implemented prior to the initiation of drug treatment, 75 % of children fully resolved their ADHD symptoms (Pelham 1999 ). Yet, the pervasive public message was that ADHD drugs work and should be the first line of defense (Pelham and Fabiano 2008 ). In fact—as is also the case with depression (Antonuccio 2008 ; Antonuccio et al. 1995 , 1999 , 2002 )—the scientific evidence indicates that psychosocial interventions for ADHD are at least as effective as ADHD drug treatment when long-term outcome is considered (for a review, see Pelham and Fabiano 2008 ).
In addition to overselling drug benefits, the pharmaceutical industry minimizes drug risks (Lacasse and Leo 2009 ). Individuals who experience the side effects are portrayed as biologically predisposed and/or otherwise vulnerable to emotional breakdowns (e.g., Sizemore 2012 ). Such generalizations can lull clinicians and parents into a false sense of security and belief that the side effects will not occur for otherwise "normal" children.
With mounting evidence of serious risks associated with widespread use of psychotropic drugs, the case of the attack on LeFever and suppression of the data she generated can serve as a wake-up call for mental health professionals. This case provides an object lesson about why tenure is so important in protecting academic freedom. Without tenure, the risks to the independent academician can be great if billions of industry dollars may be threatened (Antonuccio et al. 2003 ). It is up to independent scientists to address the inflation of benefits of drug therapies and the minimization of risk (Healy 2002 , 2008 ; Leo and Cohen 2003 ). Prominent Psychiatrist Allen Frances and Psychologist Alan Stroufe have recently again sounded the alarm about ADHD being overdiagnosed, medications being overused, and the lack of long-term benefit from these medications (Frances 2013 ; Stroufe 2012 ). The authors would like to add their voices to their call.
Antonuccio, D. (2008). Treating depressed children with antidepressants: More harm than benefit? Journal of Clinical Psychology in Medical Settings, 15, 92–97.PubMedCrossRef
Antonuccio, D., Burns, D., & Danton, W. (2002). Antidepressants: A triumph of marketing over science? Prevention & Treatment,. doi:10.1037/1522-3736.5.1.525c.
Antonuccio, D., Danton, W., & DeNelsky, G. (1995). Psychotherapy versus medication for depression: Challenging the conventional wisdom with data. Professional Psychology: Research and Practice, 26(6), 574–585.CrossRef
Antonuccio, D., Danton, W., DeNelsky, G., Greenberg, R., & Gordon, J. (1999). Raising questions about antidepressants. Psychotherapy and Psychosomomatics, 68, 3–14.CrossRef
Antonuccio, D., Danton, W., & McLanahan, T. (2003). Building a firewall between marketing and science. American Psychologist, 58(12), 1028–1043.PubMedCrossRef
Barkley, R. & 84 other behavioral scientists. (2002). International consensus statement on ADHD. Clinical Child and Family Psychology 5, 89–111.
Blumsohn, A. (2006). Authorship, ghost-science, access to data and control of the pharmaceutical scientific literature: Who stands behind the word? (Vol. 19). Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science Professional Ethics Report.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2010). Increasing prevalence of parent-reported attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder among children—United States, 2003 and 2007. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly, 59(44), 1439–1443.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2013). Mental health surveillance among children-United States, 2005–2011. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 62(02), 1–35.
Desantis, A., & Hane, A. (2010). "Adderall is Definitely Not a Drug": Justifications for the illegal use of ADHD stimulants. Substance Use and Misuse, 45(1–2), 31–46.PubMedCrossRef
DeSantis, A., Noar, S., & Webb, E. (2010). Speeding through the frat house: A qualitative exploration of nonmedical ADHD stimulant use in fraternities. Journal of Drug Addiction, 40(2), 151–171.
DeSantis, A., Webb, E., & Noar, S. (2008). Illicit use of prescription ADHD medications on a college campus: A multimethodological approach. Journal of American College Health, 57(3), 315–324.PubMedCrossRef
Deyo, R. A., Psaty, B. M., Simon, G., Wagner, E. H., & Omenn, G. S. (1997). The messenger under attack—Intimidation of researchers by special-interest groups. New England Journal of Medicine, 336(16), 1176–1180. doi:10.1056/NEJM199704173361611.PubMedCrossRef
Elliott, C. (2010). The secret lives of Big Pharma's 'thought leaders'. Washington DC: The Chronicle of Higher Education.
Farley, R. (2007). The "atypical" dilemma: Skyrocketing numbers of kids are prescribed powerful antipsychotic drugs. Saint Petersburg: St. Petersburg Times.
Frances, A. (2013). Saving Normal: An insider's revolt against out-of-control psychiatric diagnosis, DSM-5, big pharma, and the medicalization of ordinary life. New York: HarperCollins.
Gonon, F., Konsman, J.-P., & Cohen, D. (2012). Why most biomedical findings echoed by newspapers turn out to be false: The case of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. PLoS ONE, 7(9), e44275.PubMedCrossRef
Greenhill, L. L., Swanson, J. M., Vitiello, B., Davies, M., Clevenger, W., Wu, M., et al. (2001). Impairment and deportment responses to different methylphenidate doses in children with ADHD: The MTA titration trial. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 40(2), 180–187.PubMedCrossRef
Healy, D. (2002). The creation of psychopharmacology. London: Harvard University Press.
Healy, D. (2008). Academic stalking and brand fascism. In J. Turk & J. Thompson (Eds.), Universities at risk: How politics, special interests and corporatization threaten academic integrity (pp. 108–137). Toronto: Lorimer Press.
Kollins, S., Greenhill, L., Swanson, J., Wigal, S., Abikoff, H., McCracken, J., et al. (2006). Rationale, design, and methods of the preschool ADHD treatment study (PATS). Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 45(11), 1275–1283.PubMedCrossRef
Lacasse, J., & Leo, J. (2009). Consumer advertisements for psychostimulants in the United States: A long record of misleading promotion. Psychiatric Times, 26(2), 12.
LeFever, G., Arcona, A., & Antonuccio, D. (2003). ADHD among American schoolchildren: Evidence of overdiagnosis and overuse of medication. Scientific Review of Mental Health Practice, 2(1), 49–60.
LeFever, G., Butterfoss, F., & Vislocky, N. (1999a). High prevalence of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: Catalyst for development of a school health coalition. Family and Community Health, 22(1), 38–49.CrossRef
LeFever, G., Dawson, K., & Morrow, A. (1999b). The extent of drug therapy for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder among children in public schools. American Journal of Public Health, 89(9), 1359–1364.PubMedCrossRef
LeFever, G., Villers, M., Morrow, A., & Vaughn, E. (2002). Parental perceptions of adverse educational outcomes among children diagnosed with ADHD: A call for improved school/provider collaboration. Psychology in the Schools, 39(1), 63–71.CrossRef
Lenzer, J. (2005b). Researcher to be sacked after reporting high rates of ADHD. BMJ, 330, 691.
Leo, J., & Cohen, D. A. (2003). Broken brains or flawed studies? A critical review of ADHD neuroimaging research. The Journal of Mind and Behavior, 149, 1539–1542.
Marks, I., Swinson, R., Basoglu, M., Noshirvani, H., Kuch, K., O'Sullivan, G., et al. (1993). Reply to comment on the London/Toronto study. British Journal of Psychiatry, 162, 790–794.
Matone, M., Localio, R., Huang, Y., dosReis, S., Feudtner, C., & Rubin, D. (2012). The relationship between mental health diagnosis and treatment with second-generation antipsychotics over time: a national study of U.S. Medicaid-enrolled children. Health Services Research, 47(5), 1836–1860.PubMedCrossRef
McCabe, S., Teter, C., & Boyd, C. (2004). The use, misuse, and diversion of prescription stimulants among middle and high school students. Substance Use and Misuse, 39(7), 1095–1116.PubMedCrossRef
Mojtabai, R., & Olfson, M. (2010). National trends in psychotropic medication polypharmacy in office-based psychiatry. Archives of General Psychiatry, 67(1), 26.PubMedCrossRef
Molina, B., Hinshaw, S., Swanson, J., Arnold, L., Vitielli, B., Jensen, P., et al. (2009). The MTA at 8 years: Prospective follow-up of children treated for combined-type ADHD in a multisite study. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 48(5), 484–500.PubMedCrossRef
Monbiot, G. (2002). The fake persuaders: Corporations are inventing people to rubbish their opponents on the internet. London: The Guardian.
Moore, T., Glenmullen, J., & Furberg, C. (2010). Prescription drugs associated with reports of violence towards others. PLoS ONE, 5(12), e15337.PubMedCrossRef
Morrow, R., Morrow, A., & Haslip, G. (1998). Methylphenidate in the United States, 1990 through 1995 [Letter to the editor]. American Journal of Public Health, 88(7), 1121.PubMedCrossRef
Musser, C., Ahmann, P., Theye, F., et al. (1998). Stimulant use and the potential for abuse in Wisconsin as reported by school administrators and longitudinally followed children. Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, 19(3), 187–192.PubMedCrossRef
Nathan, D., & Weatherall, D. (2002). Academic freedom in clinical research. New England Journal of Medicine, 347, 1368–1371.PubMedCrossRef
National Institute of Drug Abuse. (2011). Drug-related hospital emergency room visits. Rockville, MD: National Institute of Drug Abuse.
Office of Research Integrity. (1997). Model policy for responding to allegations of scientific misconduct. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Olfson, M., Blanco, C., Liu, S., Wang, S., & Correll, C. (2012). National trends in the office-based treatment of children, adolescents, and adults with antipsychotics. Archives of General Psychiatry, 69(12), 1247–1256.PubMedCrossRef
Pelham, W. (1999). The NIMH multimodal treatment study for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: just say yes to drugs alone? Canadian Journal of Psychiatry, 44, 765–775.
Pelham, W., & Fabiano, G. A. (2008). Evidence-based psychosocial treatments for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Journal of Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology, 37(1), 184–214.CrossRef
Pratt, L., Brody, D., & Gu, Q. (2011). Antidepressant use in persons aged 12 and over: United States, 2005–2008. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics.
Richters, J. E., Arnold, L. E., Jensen, P. S., Abikoff, H., Conners, C. K., Greenhill, L. L., et al. (1995). NIMH collaborative multisite multimodal treatment study of children with ADHD. I. Background and rationale. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 34(8), 987–1000.PubMedCrossRef
Scudder, L. (2011). The changing epidemiology of ADHD: An expert interview with Suzanna Visser. Parsippany: Medscape.
Setlik, J., Bond, G., & Ho, M. (2009). Adolescent prescription ADHD medication abuse is rising along with prescriptions for these medications. Pediatrics, 124(3), 875–880.PubMedCrossRef
Sizemore, B. (2012). After Navy vet's suicide, sister sues VA. Norfolk: The Virginian-Pilot.
Sondik, E., Madans, J., & Gentleman, J. (2012). Summary of health statistics for U.S. children: National health interview survey, 2011 ((PHS) - 2013-1582). Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics.
Stroufe, L. A. (2012). Ritalin gone wrong. New York: New York Times.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2013). The DAWN report: Emergency department visits involving attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder stimulant medications. Rockville, MD: Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality.
Tennant, D. (1996). Combating ADD expert says children are not being overdiagnosed or overtreated for disorder, which is genetic (p. E1). Norfolk: The Virginian-Pilot.
Thompson, J., Baird, P., & Downie, J. (2001). The Oliveri report. Toronto: James Lorimer and Company.
Timimi, S., Moncrieff, J., Jureidini, J., Leo, J., Cohen, D., Whitfield, C., & other Co-endorsers. (2004). A critique of the international consensus statement on ADHD. [Comment]. Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review, 7(1), 59–63; 65–59.
Wish, E., Falls, B., & Nakamura, E. (2005). College students' perceptions of nonmedical use of prescription stimulants by their peers: Findings from the April 2005 administration of the Student Drug Research Survey. College Park, MD: University of Maryland, Center for Substance Abuse Research.
Zito, J., Burcu, M., Ibe, A., Safer, D., & Magder, L. (2013). Antipsychotic use by Medicaid-insured youths: Impact of eligibility and psychiatric diagnosis across a decade. Psychiatric Services, 64(3), 1–3.CrossRef
Zonfrillo, M., Penn, J., & Leonard, H. (2005). Pediatric psychotropic polypharmacy. Psychiatry, 2(8), 14–19.PubMed
The Asia Pacific ICS Security Summit will be held in Singapore at the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel on December 2-3, 2013, with in-depth, hands-on post technical courses on December 4-8.
The Summit brings together the program managers, control systems engineers, IT security professionals and critical infrastructure protection specialists from asset owning and operating organizations along with control systems and security vendors who have innovative solutions for improving security. Along with government and research leaders, they are coming together to learn and discuss the newest and most challenging cyber security risks to control systems and the most effective defenses. The Security Summit is an action conference designed so that every attendee leaves with new tools and techniques they can put to work immediately when they return to their office.
The Summit is the place to come and interact with top SCADA experts, key government personnel, researchers and asset owners at the multiple special networking events.
Gain the most current information regarding SCADA and Control System threats and learn how to best prepare to defend against them.
Learn the most critical security challenges in implementing smart meters and smart grid. Learn what the US is doing with its $4.8 billion in Smart Grid funding to ensure these systems do not create new risks.
Plant Managers, Engineering and Operations Management, Project Managers, Automation and Control Managers, Process Control and SCADA Engineers, Plant Engineers
Learn the lessons discovered by leading process control user organizations throughout the world, and what your process control vendor may be doing to boost the defenses on systems already deployed, and on new systems.
Learn why control systems are so difficult to protect and arm yourself with clear case studies showing what has been done and what can be done to protect SCADA and other control systems. Learn the language of control systems so you can be of more help to the engineers who plan and deploy such systems.
Understand the requirements and constraints faced by owners and operators of automation systems. Determine the state of the art in control system security as a benchmark for your own future planning.
Government Leaders Responsible for Policy and Regulation of Utilities and Other Process Control Users
Better understand what government can and cannot do by learning the requirements, constraints, and current capabilities available to secure critical control systems.
Pathology & Pathogenesis Archives - Infectious Diseases Hub
5 November, 2021 0 Novel cell models for rapid screening of SARS-CoV-2 infection studies
Wednesday 17 November 10:00 [EST] 15:00 [GMT] 16:00 [CET] Available time zones In order to decipher the pathology of COVID-…
24 August, 2021 0 Long COVID syndrome is likely to be caused by blood clotting
Recent research indicates that the linking factor between COVID-19 infection, severe acute COVID-19 infection and progression to Long COVID syndrome…
16 April, 2020 0 International NETwork investigates the role of neutrophils in severe COVID-19 cases
A global research consortium has provided new evidence suggesting that neutrophils may be responsible for severe symptoms linked to COVID-19.
12 March, 2020 0 A peek behind the paper – Muhammad Faheem on dengue virus proteins as potential drug targets
1. 3D Brain - free
2. 3D4Medical's Images - iPad Edition - free
3. Clever Crazes You and Your Insides - free
A Fun Way to Explore Facts About Our Bodies! Great for Kids Grade K through 8! What Happens When Fun Games Are Mixed with Education? Kids Learn! Your kids will love these games, which are based on those from the popular clevercrazes.com They'll earn real prizes! They'll learn math and vocabulary skills! Most of all, they will have FUN!
4. Essential Skeleton - free
5. Explore the Heart in 3D - free
6. Glasses.com - free
7. HeartDecide - free
HeartDecide teaches you about heart Anatomy, Conditions, best practices, Solutions and helps you Find a Specialist. HeartDecide is divided into four sections: Anatomy, Conditions, Solutions and Find a Specialist. Using medical images and annotations which are specific to each heart condition, the app describes each condition, shows what it looks like, discusses symptoms and findings, and gives treatment recommendations based on best practices.
Boost your Healthcare Training by using the Best Learning Management System!
Discover, choose and compare the top LMS for Hospital and Healthcare Industry!
8. Living Lung - Lung Viewer - free
9. Nature Human Genome Special Edition - free
10. Solve the Outbreak - free
Get clues, analyze data, solve the case, and save lives! In this fun app, you get to be the Disease Detective. Do you quarantine the village? Talk to people who are sick? Ask for more lab results? The better your answers, the higher your score - and the more quickly you'll save lives. You'll start out as a Trainee and can earn badges by solving cases, with the goal of earning the top rank: Disease Detective.
TRANSPLANTS: Race, Gender and Income Affect Allocation | California Healthline
TRANSPLANTS: Race, Gender and Income Affect Allocation
Minorities, the poor and women are less likely to receive organ transplants compared to white, rich men, according to a new report in the Journal of the American Medical Association . Drs. Caleb Alexander and Ashwini Sehgal studied 7,125 kidney patients between 1993 and 1996 in Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio and found that African Americans are 32% less likely than whites to become definitely interested in transplants, 44% less likely to complete the tests necessary for the transplant and 50% less likely to get on an organ transplant waiting list and receive a new kidney (Srikameswaran, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette , 10/7). Women lagged behind men by 20% in the last three steps, and the poor were nearly 33% less likely than the rich to be designated as a candidate, express "definite interest" and undergo the pre-transplant workup. The Columbus Dispatch reports that while previous studies had highlighted how racial, gender and socio-economic factors impact the distribution of organs, the new JAMA article is the first to show differences in the pre-transplant process, indicating that many candidates never even reach the donor lists. Sehgal was "surprised by the results." He said, "In the past, everyone thought that the waiting list was the only important step in the process." The authors also found that the third step -- "pre-transplant evaluation" -- was a hurdle that barred many candidates, with only one-third of potential donors completing it (Somerson, 10/7).
Consumer advocacy group Public Citizen, calling the study "proof that the U.S. health care system discriminates," called for an expansion of a program that provides "case managers to help blacks, women and poor people navigate the medical system" (Tanner, AP/Philadelphia Inquirer , 10/7). Dr. Peter Lurie of Public Citizen's Health Research Group said, "These shameful biases in American Medicine must be eliminated. ... [M]ore attention will have to be paid to remedying the causes of the unjustifiable discrimination so clearly demonstrated at each and every step of the transplant process" (Public Citizen release, 10/6). The authors of the study state that they were not able to "determine why specific steps serve as barriers among blacks, women, and the poor," but cited as possible factors "lack of knowledge about transplantation and concerns about surgery, adverse effects of medication and health care costs." They concluded that a standardized national database of kidney patients is clearly needed, as there are "[c]urrently different coding systems ... among the 18 regional renal failure networks, and ... no national repository." Furthermore, they said "transplant and dialysis providers need to ensure that transplant candidates are identified equitably and then assisted through the transplantation process as expeditiously as possible" (Alexander/Sehgal, JAMA , 10/7 issue). Click here to see the study abstract.
A separate JAMA study reports that "[m]ost U.S transplant centers meet or exceed their expected survival rates," USA Today reports. The major threat to patients comes in the first year after undergoing a transplant, after which survival rates substantially increase, according to researchers from the United Network for Organ Sharing. Overall, survival rates have increased over the past ten years, assisted by new anti-rejection drugs, despite an older population of transplant patients (Rubin, 10/7). The researchers found that "98% of organs and 96% of recipients survived at least one year after transplantation," and "[l]ong-term survival for all organs exceeded 91%" ( Pittsburgh Post-Gazette , 10/7). Additional factors boosting survival rates include improved "surgical techniques, better patient selection and the ability to treat certain kinds of infections," according to Dr. Doug Hanto (Hopkins, Cincinnati Enquirer , 10/7). Click here to see the study abstract.
UNOS Controversy
The JAMA articles were interpreted by several doctors in the context of the recent controversy over pending changes in how organs are distributed nationwide. Changes urged by the federal government would shift the geographic-based distribution of organs to a system that would give preference to the sickest candidates nationwide. Dr. Sehgal said that because many blacks, women and poor people never reach the organ transplant list, the new UNOS distribution plan will fail to address the inequities in the current system ( AP/Philadelphia Inquirer , 10/7). Dr. John Fung of the Starzl Transplantation Institute in Pittsburgh cited the increased transplant success rates in support of the new allocation rules. He said that a new nationalized organ distribution is "justified" because the JAMA study showed that the few transplant centers with substandard success rates were in small, local centers ( Pittsburgh Post-Gazette , 10/7).
Simple Approaches Won't Work
A JAMA editorial by Dr. Edgar Milford of the New England Organ Bank contends that the two studies shed light on the "[f]our daunting problems confronting the solid organ transplant community: maximizing availability of transplants for patients, improving graft and patient survival rates, establishing an acceptable system for organ allocation, and making organ transplantation as cost-effective as possible." Milford cites problems with several different allocation models. While he says it is "possible to create a set of rules for cadaver solid organ transplantation that maximizes the number of additional years of patient life systemwide or that maximizes the number of years of transplant function," Milford says "[s]uch a purely utilitarian system of allocation would, no doubt, be unacceptable to many citizens because it would surely bias against transplantation of members of minority groups and older candidates." A "first- come, first-served" approach also may not be wise because it would "needlessly allocate particular available organs to individuals who are less likely to benefit from them than others on the current waiting list." He also says a "sickest patient first" approach "might be unwise if the long-term outcome of those patients is not as good as outcomes of patients who received their transplant earlier." Milford goes on to tout an approach taken by the New England Organ Bank and the Northeast Organ Procurement Organization. This approach, he notes, "takes into account patient urgency, waiting time, geographic relation of donor to recipient center, histocompatibility match, and candidate sensitization." He contends that this approach "has resulted in more equitable allocation to blacks and Hispanic persons while ensuring a reasonable amount of local access to kidneys" (10/7 issue). Click here to obtain the UNOS report on transplant success rates.
Outbreak Archives - KyForward.com | KyForward.com
The good news about hepatitis in Kentucky is that the number of hepatitis A cases is dropping. The bad news is that there are still as many cases each week as were once seen in a year's time, and the state is by the far the leader in deaths from the liver disease. According to the state's weekly report, the number of hepatitis A cases in Kentucky has dropped to around 20 per week for several...
Kentucky Health News Investigation of people stricken by the recent outbreak of E. coli "suggests that ground beef is the source of this outbreak," the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced Friday. "At this time, no common supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef has been identified." The outbreak, centered in Kentucky, has sickened 109 people and sent 17...
Kentucky accounts for about half the cases in an odd, 5-state outbreak of E. coli; here are precautions
Kentucky has about half of the cases in an outbreak of infections from a strain of E. coli bacteria that has also sickened people in Ohio, Virginia, Tennessee, and Georgia. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that the source of the 72 infections has not been identified. The CDC said Kentucky had 36 cases as of Friday, but the day before, the state Department for Public Health...
Sickweather.com warns of outbreak of strep throat in KY, which ranks 6th; get medical attention
Sickweather is currently observing an outbreak of Strep Throat reports throughout the U.S. The company reports that the Midwest and Southwest are the most active per capita for strep throat illnesses. Recommendations for those experiencing symptoms like fever or sore throat include seeking medical attention and requesting a rapid throat culture for diagnosis. Here are the Top 10 States by activity...
Kentucky Health News State health officials say the hepatitis A outbreak in Kentucky is the worst ever, and the crisis isn't over. "It's the worst on record across the nation and in Kentucky," Dr. Jeff Howard, Kentucky Commissioner of Public Health, told Beth Warren of the Louisville Courier-Journal. Kentucky health officials have confirmed 969 cases and six deaths from...
Keven Moore on Insurance: You can never be too prepared for Ebola or other health risks
No doubt, there is a lot of interest in – and concern about – the deadly Ebola virus that appears to be spiraling out of control in West Africa and, just recently, found its way into the United States with two confirmed cases. It's gotten so bad lately that watching television might seem more like watching the 1995 movie Outbreak than the nightly news. President Barack Obama...
Lead Industrial Hygienist at Center for Disease Control and Prevention - CDC | CareerCast HealthCare Network Careercast.com Healthcare Network
Job Announcement Number: HHS-CDC-D3-21-10994970
SALARY RANGE: $113205.0 to $147164.0/Per Year
OPEN PERIOD: 2021-01-05 to 2021-01-21
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the agency Americans trust with their lives. As a global leader in public health, CDC is the nation's premier health promotion, prevention, and preparedness agency. Whether we are protecting the American people from public health threats, researching emerging diseases, or mobilizing public health programs with our domestic and international partners, we rely on our employees to make a real difference in the health and well-being of people here and around the world. This position is located in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Division of Field Studies and Engineering (DFSE), Hazard Evaluation and Technical Assistance Branch (HETAB), Cincinnati, Ohio. CDC is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
-OR- A bachelor's degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. -OR- A certification from the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH). Minimum Qualification Requirements: In addition to meeting the basic qualifications above, applicants must have one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the next paragraph. Specialized experience is experience which is directly related to the position which has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position as defined above to include experience providing leadership and guidance in the development, implementation and evaluation of standards for the elimination and control of industrial environmental health hazards. Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.
Ghost imaging in the time domain could revolutionise the imaging of disturbance-sensitive signals | Prowl in virtual world
Home / Science / Ghost imaging in the time domain could revolutionise the imaging of disturbance-sensitive signals
Ghost imaging in the time domain could revolutionise the imaging of disturbance-sensitive signals
Posted by: Mohammad Daeizadeh in Science February 12, 2016 0 382 Views
credit of Image: University of Maryland
Research results recently presented in the distinguished Nature Photonics journal open up new outlooks on ghost imaging in the time domain.
The conventional approach to decode information carried by ultrafast optical signals that propagate in optical fibres employs fast detectors that convert the temporal intensity variations of a light beam into an RF electrical signal. This technique is at the core of ultrafast optical communications, enabling the transmission of information at speeds exceeding several billion bits per second.
A team led by Professor Goëry Genty from the Optics Laboratory at Tampere University of Technology in collaboration with Professor Ari T. Friberg from the University of Eastern Finland now demonstrates how ultrafast pulses that carry information over durations shorter than 1 billionth of a second can be detected without actually 'seeing' those pulses directly. The results were obtained within the framework of the 'Temporal correlation imaging' project funded by the Academy of Finland.
"Ghost imaging is an all-new physical imaging method that enables us to image a target by correlating two beams of light, neither of which contains image information. One beam sees the object and measures the overall output, while the other is in no contact with the object although its space distribution is measured. When these measured intensities are correlated, the image of the target magically appears, 'like a ghost'," Friberg explains.
In their experiments, the team transposed the concept of ghost imaging into the time domain to produce the 'image' of an ultrafast signal in the form of short optical pulses by correlating in time the intensity of two light beams, neither of which independently carries information about the signal. The key element was to use a laser source with random intensity fluctuations at a time scale of a picosecond, a feature which is generally highly detrimental for the standard transmission of information. By correlating these fluctuations with the total power of the modulated signal, it was possible to reconstruct a perfect copy of the ultrafast signal.
"Even more fascinating", says Professor Genty, "is the fact that the technique is completely insensitive to distortion that the signal may experience due to dispersion, nonlinearity, or attenuation, for example."
To demonstrate this inherent property associated with ghost imaging, the researchers have scrambled the information carried by the optical pulses using a multi-mode fiber whose large dispersion spreads the individual pulses in time to the extent that they start overlapping and thus prevent the information from being faithfully retrieved with a conventional fast detector. When the ghost imaging approach was used, the team showed that a perfect replica of the original signal could be obtained and the information could be recovered.
The method is scalable, it can be integrated on-chip, and it offers great promise for the dynamic imaging of ultrafast waveforms with applications in communications, remote sensing and ultrafast spectroscopy.
Jafri, L., Ullah Khan, N., Baig, M., Ali, N., Majid, H., Habib Khan, A. (2017). The Clinical Spectrum of Plumbism; an Experience from a Tertiary Care Hospital in Karachi, Pakistan. Asia Pacific Journal of Medical Toxicology, 6(4), 118-122. doi: 10.22038/apjmt.2017.10601
Lena Jafri; Nadeem Ullah Khan; Muhammad Akbar Baig; Noman Ali; Hafsa Majid; Ayesha Habib Khan. "The Clinical Spectrum of Plumbism; an Experience from a Tertiary Care Hospital in Karachi, Pakistan". Asia Pacific Journal of Medical Toxicology, 6, 4, 2017, 118-122. doi: 10.22038/apjmt.2017.10601
Jafri, L., Ullah Khan, N., Baig, M., Ali, N., Majid, H., Habib Khan, A. (2017). 'The Clinical Spectrum of Plumbism; an Experience from a Tertiary Care Hospital in Karachi, Pakistan', Asia Pacific Journal of Medical Toxicology, 6(4), pp. 118-122. doi: 10.22038/apjmt.2017.10601
Jafri, L., Ullah Khan, N., Baig, M., Ali, N., Majid, H., Habib Khan, A. The Clinical Spectrum of Plumbism; an Experience from a Tertiary Care Hospital in Karachi, Pakistan. Asia Pacific Journal of Medical Toxicology, 2017; 6(4): 118-122. doi: 10.22038/apjmt.2017.10601
Article 4, Volume 6, Issue 4, Autumn 2017, Page 118-122	 PDF (562 K)
DOI: 10.22038/apjmt.2017.10601
Lena Jafri1; Nadeem Ullah Khan2; Muhammad Akbar Baig 3; Noman Ali4; Hafsa Majid5; Ayesha Habib Khan6
1Assistant Professor at Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan
2Associate Professor and Consultant, Department of Emergency Medicine, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan
3Senior Instructor at Department of Emergency Medicine, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan
4Resident year V, Department of Emergency Medicine, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan
5Senior Instructor at Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan
6Associate Professor and Head at section of Chemical Pathology, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan
Background:Lead toxicity continues to remain a concerning health problem for developing nations like Pakistan. Due to the lack of studies, we aim to highlight the clinical spectrum of lead poisoning in patients presenting to an urban-based tertiary care hospital in Pakistan.
Method:This is a retrospective review of patients admitted form January 2011 to December 2014 using a structured questionnaire for recording demographics, comorbidities, clinical findings, biochemical abnormalities, clinical findings and treatment provided. Patients were categorized as children (≤18yrs) and adults (>18yrs), further divided into three groups; desired blood lead levels (BLLs) [lead levels <2ug/dl in children and <10ug/dl in adults], high but non-toxic [children 2-10ug/dl, adults 10-70ug/dl] and toxic [children >10ug/dl, adults >70ug/dl].
Result: A total of 86 patients were included in the final analysis, majority (69.6%) of whom were adult males with median age of 35 yrs. Median (IQR) BLL was 6.3 ug/dl (12.8-2.7) in all age groups with BLL in children and adults of 4.2 ug/dl (3.1-5.7) and 6.5 ug/dl (2.6-14.7), respectively. 72% of the children had complaints related to the central nervous system with majority complaining of irritability. The gastrointestinal system was most commonly implicated in adults (93%) with most common complaint of abdominal pain. The commonest risk factor showing a positive correlation with BLLs was battery handling in adults [median (IQR) BLL 18.4ug/dl (8.35-36.1)] and pica eating in children with BLLs in high but non-toxic range [median (IQR) BLL 5.2ug/dl (2.7-5.7)]. The highest BLLs were observed to lie within the high but non-toxic range group in one adult herbal medicine user (54.4 ug/dl) and in children observed in the toxic range group (>10ug/dl) due to occupational battery work exposure and residence in a congested zone.
Conclusion:Lead toxicity continues to be hazardous due to unchecked environmental and occupational exposure. Increasing awareness is tantamount in order to find a solution.
Emergency; Lead Toxicity; Pakistan; Plumbism
Lead is a cumulative toxic metal and is known for its toxicity since time immemorial (1). The major environmental sources of lead exposure include air, dust, soil, drinking water and food contaminated with lead (2). In developing nations like Pakistan, occupations that impose greater risk for lead poisoning include working in industries manufacturing lead-related products such as paints, water pipes, batteries, eye cosmetics, food cans, petroleum (added as an anti-knocking agent), oaring and mining (3-8).
Lead is not an essential element and serves no purpose in the body. The routes of exposure for inorganic lead are primarily through ingestion followed by inhalation (4). Once it is absorbed, lead is found in all tissues, but eventually 90% or more of the body burden is accumulated in the bone with a biological half-life from years to decades. Lead is excreted primarily in the urine (5). It causes pathophysiological effects through the interference of various enzymatic systems by binding to sulfhydryl groups found on enzymes resulting in extensive free radical damage of cell structures including the DNA and cell membranes. Lead can cause a reduction of immune function resulting in excessive inflammation (6, 7).
Blood lead level is the most reliable indicator of lead intoxication. In 1991, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) redefined the reference value of elevated blood lead levels (BLLs) from >25 µg/dl to >10 µg/dl (8). In spite of lead being one of the most prevalent toxins, only few studies have so far been conducted in Pakistan. However, the published data clearly indicate that blood lead levels of both general population as well as the exposed groups are much above the internationally acceptable limits (9-12).
Lead poisoning is a serious public health concern in Pakistan. Although the biochemical and hematological features of acute/sub-acute lead poisoning have been well studied (13), there is paucity of data regarding the clinical spectrum of lead poisoning relevant to our population. Therefore, the objective of this study is to highlight the toxicological syndrome of lead poisoning in patients presenting to an urban-based tertiary care hospital of Pakistan.
A retrospective chart review was conducted on all cases admitted at the Aga Khan University Hospital (AKUH) with Blood Lead Levels (BLL) test being performed for suspected or confirmed lead poisoning from period of January 2011 to December 2014. AKUH is a 563-bedded tertiary care teaching hospital in Karachi, Pakistan. It serves more than 80,000 patients annually and has a dedicated drug and poison information center for toxicology-related consultations (14). Whole blood lead levels were performed by graphite tube atomizer, atomic absorption spectrometer 200 series AA (Agilent Technologies, California, US). Three-level quality control materials were run with each batch of samples. The laboratory participated in proficiency testing survey of College of American Pathologist twice a year with >80% performance when compared with the peer group. The study was reviewed by the Ethical Review Committee of AKUH and was granted exemption (3344-Pat-ERC-14).
Medical files of patients registered at AKUH were reviewed using a pre-structured questionnaire by a trained investigator to record the following information about patients;
Socio demographics,
Comorbidities (diabetes, hypertension, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease),
Clinical findings (General Physical; pallor, fatigue, muscle/bone/joint pain, weight loss, lead lines on gums, Cardiovascular systems; elevated blood pressure, Central nervous system; developmental delay, learning disabilities, mood disorder/Irritability, seizure, headache, memory loss, hearing loss, foot/wrist drop pain/tingling/numbness of extremities, Gastrointestinal system; anorexia, abdominal pain, constipation, reproductive system; premature delivery, infertility, miscarriage, Renal system; acute Kidney Injury),
Risk factors (lead battery handlers, pica eating habit, ayurvedic medicine user, aluminum utensils user, petrol pump station worker, resident of a newly painted house, home in polluted zone, home undergoing renovation) and
Treatment provided (hospitalized for it, Chelation therapy provided).
The data were transferred into an Excel database (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, WA), cleaned, and analyzed with SPSS version 20. Patients were categorized as children (≤18yrs) and adults (>18yrs); they were further divided into 3 groups; desired BLLs (lead levels <2ug/dl in children and <10ug/dl in adults), high but non-toxic (children 2-10ug/dl, adults 10-70ug/dl) and toxic (children >10ug/dl, adults >70ug/dl).
Normality of data was assessed using Shapiro-Wilk test. Test of normality showed significant results, so median (IQR) was reported. Continuous variables were summarized as medians and interquartile ranges (IQR), while categorical variables are summarized as frequency and percentages. Mann–Whitney U test was done to assess the relationship between systems involved, risk factors and BLLs. A cutoff p-value of < 0.05 was accepted as the cutoff for statistical significance.
Out of 103 patients presented for clinical suspicion of lead toxicity, medical records of 86 patients were reviewed. While twenty-nine patients (33.7%) belong to pediatric age group aged ≤18yrs [median (IQR) age of 5yrs (3-8.5)], a majority of fifty-nine patients (69.6%) belonged to the adult age group aged >18 years [median (IQR) age of 35yrs (25-49)]. The commonest comorbid conditions identified were of hypertension (11.5%; n=10) followed by diabetes (7%; n=6). Twenty (23%) patients were admitted while only one patient was treated with chelation therapy. The median (IQR) BLL was in high but not toxic range of 6.3 ug/dl(2.7-12.8). The median BLL values in adults and pediatric groups are shown in further detail in Figure 1. Amongst the systems involved, signs and symptoms related to gastrointestinal (GIT) system (p value <0.01) and central nervous system (CNS) (p value <0.05) were significant and their respective association with the different BLL groups are shown in further detail in Table 1 & Figure 2.
In the pediatric age group (aged ≤18yrs), we established 89% (n=26) of children to have BLLs that exceeds the desired range, i.e. > or equal to 2 ug/dl. Only one child had a toxic value exceeding > 10 ug/dl. The most common risk factor identified in 80% of the pediatric age group was that of pica eating with a median (IQR) BLL in high but not toxic range of 5.3 ug/dl (2.7-5.7) followed by occupational battery work exposure and indwelling within a congested area noted in one pediatric case only with BLL lying in toxic range of > 10 ug/dl (Table 2 & Figure 3). Risk factors were not identified in 19 pediatric cases (65%) due to absent information. The most common symptoms noted in 72% of children were related to the CNS with majority complaints of irritability [Median (IQR) BLL 4.6 ug/dl (2.7-5.8)] followed by learning difficulty [Median (IQR) BLL 3.4 ug/dl (1.8-6.1)], seizures and developmental delay each with a median BLL >2 ug/dl (Figure 2). 20% of pediatric patients (6 of total) were found to be anemic on physical examination with median (IQR) BLL 4.1 ug/dl (3-6.3). However, the corresponding median (IQR) blood hemoglobin value was equal to 12.5 gm/dl (10.8-14.4).
In the adult age group (aged>18yrs), we observed 30% of patients to have BLLs exceeding desired range > 50% of these patients having BLLs in high but not toxic range group [Median (IQR) BLL 27.2 ug/dl (13.7-36.1)]. BLL amongst various risk factors resided in high but not toxic range group and the most common risk factor observed in 89% of adult patients was occupational related to handling of lead batteries [Median (IQR) BLL 18.4 ug/dl(8.3-36.1)]. This was followed by residence in a polluted zone and usage of herbal medications in one patient only each with the highest recorded BLL of 54.4 ug/dl in herbal medicine user in comparison to rest of the cases with other risk factors (Table 2 & Figure 3). Missing information for risk factors was noted in 69% (41 of total) of adult patients. The most common symptoms observed in 93% of adults were related to the GIT with abdominal pain being the highest with a median (IQR) BLL in the desired range group of 4.4 ug/dl(2.5-10.6). Higher but non-toxic range BLLs were seen in patients complaining of loss of appetite [Median (IQR) BLL 5.9 ug/dl (2.3-54.1)] and constipation [Median (IQR) BLL 7.3 ug/dl (3.3-41.2)]. A toxic range BLL of 99.7ug/dl was noted in only one adult patient with a complaint of headache (Figure 2).
This study is the first of its kind to evaluate the different characteristics of lead poisoning in patients presenting to an urban tertiary hospital of Karachi which is considered to be one of the most heavily polluted city with lead amongst other toxic minerals (15). Most of the present study's patients were adults with a male to female ratio of 3:1.
High level of lead exposure particularly of occupational exposure has been reported to cause hypertension, endothelial dysfunction, arteriosclerosis, and cardiovascular disease (16, 17). Certain studies have shown that prolonged environmental and occupational exposure even to low levels of lead can be associated with the occurrence of elevated blood pressure (18). The commonest comorbid condition observed in our study was that of hypertension. Majority of adult patients had gastrointestinal symptoms on presentation and abdominal pain was the most frequent complaint reported separately in both adults and children (19). This could be because of the primary mode of toxicity being oral ingestion (4). The next frequent toxicity noted in children was of the central nervous system which is most sensitive to effects of lead intoxication (20). Most of the pediatric patients complained of irritability and mood disturbances (21). The developmental effects of lead exposure occur during a critical time frame especially in ages < 2 years. This subsequently enables greater penetration of lead within the CNS and eventual neurotoxicity (22). Findings of anemia were insignificant in this study; however, lead is proven to cause impairment of heme synthesis and red cell destruction (23).
Lead intoxication has long been long associated with occupational exposure (24). Petrol pump station workers showed decreased lead exposure which is probably due to lead-free petrol now being dispensed in Pakistan (25). The most readily occurring occupational intoxication reported was in lead battery repair workers which has been similarly observed in prior studies (26, 27). This suggests the need for preventive measures in battery repair workers and improvements in work safety measures in order to ensure their protection from lead toxicity. Studies conducted in Pakistan have established greater than desired range of BLLs in children with history of pica eating (25, 28), similar to the findings observed in our study. Houses painted with lead-based paint and urban residential areas where there is mobilization of heavy automobile traffic are likely to contain high lead concentrations in environment (29). Although our data analysis did not indicate a significant number of patients residing in a polluted zone, it was still associated with BLLs beyond the desired range. One adult herbal medicine user with high but non-toxic range of BLLs was also brought to attention in our study pointing out the presence of heavy metals in ayurvedic herbal preparations that are marketed without proper regulatory control (30). Smokers are at increased risk to lead exposure as well (26).
23% of patients in our study were admitted to the hospital; however, only one case was offered chelation therapy as we naturally expected majority of cases to be the result of chronic intoxication where chelation therapy is of no significant benefit in light of its numerous side effects (31).
Our study has provided us strong insight into the existing status of symptomology and risk factors associated with BLL exposure in the Pakistani population. However, the study is limited as complete clinical information could not be accumulated due to retrospective nature of the study. Therefore, it would be significantly beneficial to conduct a prospective multicenter study of looking into the toxicity of lead in relation to various socio demographic factors and clinical presentations along with benefits of available treatment options in context to various industrial cities of Pakistan.
Lead continues to remain a potentially toxic substance for developing nations like Pakistan. If not handled with care, it may cause dangerous health effects leading to morbidity and mortality at significantly increased levels. At present, our country continues to struggle with routine screening for lead levels. Therefore, increasing awareness to its related hazards would be extremely beneficial in reducing exposure. Another lethal association is that of carcinogenesis with the environmental exposure to lead (32) which will require further and much needed larger scale studies for better elucidation in our population.
Table 1: Systems involved associated with desired, high & non-toxic and toxic blood lead levels (BLLs). (N/A=Not available)
Desired BLLs
High and non-toxic BLLs
Toxic BLLs
Table 2: Risk factors associated with desired, high & non-toxic and toxic blood lead levels (BLLs). (N/A=Not available)
Desired BLLs (ug/dl)
High and non-toxic BLLs (ug/dl)
Toxic BLLs (ug/dl)
P value(<0.05)
Lead Levels (ug/dl)
Lead Battery Handlers
18.4 (8.35-36.1)
29 (24-43)
Pica Eating Habit
5.2 (5.7-2.75)
2.5 (2-7)
Ayurvedic/Herbal Medicine User
Home in Polluted Zone
23.8, 37.3
2.9 (2.5-4)
38 (30-50)
1) Klassen CD. Toxicology. 8th ed. New York: Maxwell McMillan Int; 1991.
2) Centre of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Sources of Lead. 2015. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/tips/sources.htm
3) Centre of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Jobs that may have lead exposure. 2017. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/lead/jobs.html
4) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). Toxicological profile for lead. 2007. Available from: https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/toxprofiles/tp.asp?id=96&tid=22
5) The Association of Occupational and Environmental Clinics (AOEC). Medical Management Guidelines for Lead-Exposed Adults. 2007. Available from: http://www.aoec.org/documents/positions/MMG_FINAL.pdf
6) Flora SJ, Mittal M, Mehta A. Heavy metal induced oxidative stress & its possible reversal by chelation therapy. Indian J Med Res 2008;128:501-23.
7) Robert AG, Thomas WC. Toxic effects of metals. 7th ed. United States: McGraw-Hill Professional; 2007.
8) Kazmi T, Omair A. Control of Lead Poisoning in Pakistan. J Pak Med Assoc 2005;55:409–10.
9) Rahman A, Maqbool E, Zuberi HS. Lead-associated deficits in stature, mental ability and behaviour in children in Karachi. Ann Trop Paediatr 2002;22:301–11.
10) Rahbar MH, White F, Agboatwalla M, Hobhabri S, Luby S. Factors associated with elevated blood lead concentrations in children in Karachi, Pakistan. Bull World Health Organ 2002;80:769–75.
11) Hozhabri S, White F, Rahbar MH, Agboatwalla M, Luby S. Elevated blood lead levels among children living in a fishing community, Karachi, Pakistan. Arch Environ Health 2004;59:37–41.
12) Agha F, Sadaruddin A, Khatoon N. Effect of environmental lead pollution on blood Lead levels in Traffic Police Constables in Islamabad, Pakistan. J Pak Med Assoc 2005;55:410-3.
13) Gordon JN, Taylor A, Bennett PN. Lead poisoning: case studies. Br J Clin Pharmacol 2002;53:451-8.
14) Fazal O, Madraswala M, Bangash SSM, Karim M. An assessment of toxicology telephone calls received by the drug and poison information centre at Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan. Southern Med Review 2010;2:24-6.
15) DAWN. Karachi exposed to acute lead pollution. 2009. Available from: https://www.dawn.com/news/879770
16) Mbarouk GS, Sawe HR, Mfinanga JA, Stein J, Levin S, Mwafongo V, et al. Patients with acute poisoning presenting to an urban emergency department of a tertiary hospital in Tanzania. BMC Res Notes 2017;10:482.
17) Flora G, Gupta D, Tiwari A. Toxicity of lead: A review with recent updates. Interdiscip Toxicol 2012;5:47-58.
18) Vaziri ND. Mechanisms of lead-induced hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 2008;295:H454-65.
19) D'souza HS, Dsouza SA, Menezes G, Venkatesh T. Diagnosis, Evaluation, and Treatment of Lead Poisoning in General Population. Indian J Clin Biochem 2011;26:197-201.
20) Cory-Slechta DA. Legacy of lead exposure: consequences for the central nervous system. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 1996;114:224-6.
21) Flora SJS, Flora G, Saxena G. Environmental occurrence, health effects and management of lead poisoning. 1st ed. Netherlands: Elsevier Publication; 2006.
22) Sanders T, Liu Y, Buchner V, Tchounwou PB. Neurotoxic effects and
biomarkers of lead exposure: A Review. Rev Environ Health 2009;24:15-45.
23) Vaziri ND. Mechanisms of lead-induced hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Am J Physiol 2008;295:H454–H65.
24) Ji JS, Schwartz J, Sparrow D, Hu H, Weisskopf MG. Occupational Determinants of Cumulative Lead Exposure: Analysis of Bone Lead Among Men in the VA Normative Aging Study. J Occup Environ Med 2014;56:435-40.
25) Kadir MM, Janjua NZ, Kristensen S, Fatmi Z, Sathiakumar N. Status of children's blood lead levels in Pakistan: implications for research and policy. Public health 2008;122:708-15.
26) Basit S, Karim N, Munshi AB. Occupational lead toxicity in battery workers. Pak J Med Sci 2015;31:775-780.
27) Ahmad ASK, Khan MH, Khandkar S, Sarwar AFM, Yasmin N, Faruquee MH, et al. Blood Lead Levels and Health Problems of Lead Acid Battery Workers in Bangladesh. Sci
World J 2014;2014:7.
28) Khalil M, Rashid J, Khan MMN, Iqbal MS. Determination of serum lead levels in children aged 1–6 years with or without history of pica. Pakistan Ped J 2004;28:26–30.
29) Clark CS, Thuppil V, Clark R, Sinha S, Menezes G, D'Souza H, et al. Lead in paint and soil in Karnataka and Gujarat (India). J Occup Environ Hyg 2005;2:38–44.
30) Gunturu KS, Nagarajan P, McPhedran P, Goodman TR, Hodsdon ME, Strout MP. Ayurvedic herbal medicine and lead poisoning. J Hematol Oncol 2011;4:51.
31) Flora SJ, Pachauri V. Chelation in metal intoxication. Int J Environ Res Public Health 2010;7:2745–88.
32) Gwini S, MacFarlane E, Del Monaco A, McLean D, Pisaniello D, Benke GP, et al. Cancer incidence, mortality, and blood lead levels among workers exposed to inorganic lead. Ann Epidemiol 2012;22:270-6.
