Research projects, both internal and international, have obviously been affected by the pandemic. While for many years, educational professionals have been looking for innovation in research methodology, COVID-19 has forced educators to both react to initial changes and adopt new processes.
Not only do these affect the university, but also organizations associated with each process, including supply chain operators, travel companies and research sponsors. In the report, ‘The impact of the Covid-19 crisis on university funding in Europe’ by the European University Association (EUA), it states that:
Research contracts, philanthropic sources and other types of university income will also be affected by the crisis. The post-pandemic recession could force companies to rethink their contractual partnerships and collaboration strategies with an impact on institutions’ income.
It has been said there are similarities between today’s issues and the 2008 financial crisis, which also left universities unsure about where their funding would come from. One thing that is certain is that the importance of the continuity of funding can’t be ignored.
Another crucial consideration is how universities can protect their international collaborations and ensure they can work and recruit internationally in the future.
Universities benefit from internationalism in terms of both revenue and talent retention. Foreign countries offer new talent, markets and students, alongside further research opportunities.
While there are currently travel restrictions in place (which may be the norm for an uncertain amount of time), that doesn’t mean universities can’t continue to practice internationalism. The restrictions brought about by COVID-19 have potentially refreshed the appreciation for open collaboration, outward-facing attitudes, diversity and equity.
With financial problems and political polarisation, it’s more important than ever that universities and research projects remain trusted sources of progress. The capacity to respond to these problems is ensured by research and innovation and so a balanced and sustainable investment effort from governments and private organizations is key to continued growth as a global society.
In terms of context, universities are in a good position to argue the case for closer international collaboration. As pandemics and other crises don’t necessarily respect borders, cross-border collaboration from a research perspective is increasingly relevant and worthwhile.
What universities need to do to protect internationalism now and in the future is multifaceted. There needs to be:
Similarly, risk assessment should also make up a large part of education operational planning, ensuring that any future research methodology or funding application comes from a strong and carefully considered foundation.
In complementary views, universities also need to inquire into different ways of ensuring cost-efficiency within research methods. One of these that is helping many universities is working with Global Professional Employer Organizations (PEO).
Like the effects of the 2008 financial crisis, there’s a real possibility of reductions in public funding for research, due to competition for resources over the next few years. Already, universities across the world have had their budgets cut.
The 2008 financial crisis showed that universities with the capacity to adapt were the ones that survived and flourished. But where can universities adapt? Within their recruitment and educational offering, utilizing the support and experience of a PEO.
Through PEO, a university can still appeal to the revenue-generating community of international students, as well as continue to pursue international research projects. A PEO helps by managing both talent recruitment and any relocation associated with international collaboration.
Similarly, if a research project needs actual researchers in a specific country, a PEO can act as an Employer of Record in that country, hiring in-country in compliance with local laws - in 24 hours. This means universities can:
PEOs bring expertise in local labor laws, tax legislation, insurance and benefits alongside other parts of an employee lifecycle. Due to their experience with international markets, a PEO can reduce the costs associated with expansion, relocation, entity setup and talent acquisition by up to 70%.
How Owning a Dog Can Make You Healthier | PetHonesty
Home › LEARN › How Owning a Dog Can Make You Healthier
Posted by camille arneberg on February 10, 2021
It's no secret that our furry, four-legged friends bring us endless amounts of joy and entertainment. Fido may not be a doctor, but he does have the ability to improve your mental and physical health. He may even be able to boost your social life.
We spend a significant amount of time and energy caring for our pups to make sure they're healthy. That love and care goes both ways, too. According to the American Heart Association, owning a dog could lead to a reduced risk of heart disease and improved quality of life. Your pooch may even help you live longer!
Owning a dog can also lead to fewer allergies and a stronger immune system. Children growing up in an environment with pets are much less likely to develop allergies than those aren't exposed to canine fur, dirt, and allergens. What's more, growing up with a dog reduces the likelihood of common skin allergies such as eczema.
As far as exercise goes, most doctors recommend at least 30 moderate minutes on a daily basis, or 15 intense minutes. Similar to humans, dogs need anywhere between 30 minutes to two hours of daily exercise.
If you're making sure Fido gets his exercise by taking him on daily walks, then he's already inadvertently helping you improve your physical health. One study of more than 5,200 Japanese adults indicated that those who owned a dog were 54% more likely to get the recommended amount of exercise than others.
Regular walking or playing with your pup can also help to decrease your blood pressure cholesterol and triglyceride levels, reducing the risk of heart disease. Of course, that added sunshine and fresh air is a nice perk, too.
While your dog boosts your immunity and physical activity levels, return the favor by giving him PetHonesty's Allergy Immunity and PureMobility Chews, plus a 10-for-1 Multivitamin with the Best Sellers 3-Pack.
While we need to learn how to recognize mental health issues in our dogs, our pups have a natural instinct for sensing their owners' potential mental health issues. In fact, dogs can smell changes in brain chemicals and hormone production. If you're feeling down in the dumps and trying to hide it, your pooch is still going to know—and he'll probably provide you with some extra cuddles and affection as a result.
Spending time with our dogs can also reduce stress levels by lowering cortisol hormones and raising serotonin and dopamine levels (the feel-good chemicals).
For those struggling with loneliness or wanting to break out of isolation, dogs are a great source of companionship. Who doesn't love coming home to a dog who's been looking forward to that moment all day? Dogs can also be natural conversation starters when it comes to human social interaction.
If you and your dog share anxiety struggles, consider PetHonesty's Premium Hemp Calming Chews, which use natural ingredients to calm and soothe an anxious dog.
In addition to improving our general physical and mental health, dogs have been known to help with specific diagnoses as well. For example, similar to hormone and chemical brain changes, dogs can sense drops in blood glucose levels. This means that a dog owner with diabetes may be able to rely on their pooch to alert them when it's time for a snack.
A dog is also able to sense oncoming seizures, which is helpful when it comes to alerting a dog owner with epilepsy that it's time to move away from a hot stove or other dangerous area. In other cases, a dog would be able to alert parents if a child has a seizure and needs assistance.
For children with ADHD, dogs can provide good opportunities to practice chores and learn about routines and responsibility. Playing with a dog can also burn extra energy, promoting better sleep.
Dogs are also helpful for children with Autism who are experiencing sensory issues. Petting dogs and becoming used to the feeling of fur can help children become more comfortable; this can also be a calming experience. Similarly, petting or scratching a dog can help stroke victims rebuild muscle strength.
Studies have also shown that in the presence of a dog, Alzheimer's patients have fewer anxious outbursts.
Of course, dogs shouldn't be used to replace real doctors or mental health professionals. Owning a dog is a big responsibility and commitment that should not be taken lightly. If you are considering adopting a dog but aren't sure if you can handle the demands, consider walking a friend's dog every so often or volunteering at a local animal shelter.
CWWeekly »2018 »May
Pipeline new from Pfizer, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Abbott and Janssen
Pfizer Inc. investigational RSV vaccine respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) Phase I/II trial initiated enrolling healthy adult volunteers in two age groups of 18-49 and 50-85
Acceleron Pharma Inc. sotatercept pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) Phase II trial initiated enrolling 90 subjects
Nabriva Therapeutics lefamulin moderate community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (CABP) Phase III trial topline results reported
Providence Medical Technology, Inc. DTRAX Spinal System posterior cervical fusion in patients with cervical degenerative disc disease 510(k) clearance granted by the FDA
CERENOVUS, part of the Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies EMBOTRAP II Revascularization Device next generation stent retriever used to capture and remove life-threatening blood clots from the brain following an ischemic stroke 510(k) clearance granted by the FDA
Lannett Company, Inc. Dronabinol Capsules HIV aNDA approval granted by the FDA
AcelRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. DSUVIA moderate-to-severe acute pain for adult patients in medically supervised settings NDA approval granted by the FDA
Amgen and Novartis Aimovig (erenumab-aooe) preventative treatment of migraine in adults Approval granted by the FDA
Nestlé Skin Health hyaluronic acid (HA) dermal filler Restylane Lyft correction of age-related volume loss in the back of the hands for patients over the age of 21 Approval granted by the FDA
AstraZeneca Lokelma (sodium zirconium cyclosilicate) treatment of adults with hyperkalemia Approval granted by the FDA
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Churchill Pharmaceuticals, LLC YONSA (abiraterone acetate) in combination with methylprednisolone metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) Approval granted by the FDA
Abbott XIENCE Sierra coronary artery diseasen Approval granted by the FDA
Janssen JULUCA (dolutegravir/rilpivirine) two-drug regimen, once-daily, single-pill for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection Approval granted by the EMA
WAT Medical EmeTerm nausea-induced vomiting Clearance granted by the FDA
UTILITY therapeutics Ltd mecillinam (injectable) and pivmecillinam (oral prodrug) complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) QIDP Designation granted by the FDA
Harmony Biosciences, LLC pitolisant cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy Breakthrough Therapy Designation granted by the FDA
bluebird bio, Inc. Lenti-D cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy (CALD) Breakthrough Therapy Designation granted by the FDA
Harmony Biosciences, LLC pitolisant excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy Fast Track Designation granted by the FDA
Berg, LLC BPM 31510 (ubidecarenone) Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) Orphan Drug Designation granted by the FDA
This lack of oxygen can happen because the body does not have enough red blood cells, or because the red blood cells do not contain enough hemoglobin, which is a protein that transports oxygen in the blood. When there is a lack of hemoglobin in a red blood cell, the cell is smaller in size and can carry less oxygen.
Microcytic anemia is not one condition, but rather describes several different types of anemia.
Symptoms of microcytic anemia
Share on Pinterest
Lack of oxygen in the body may be due to a lack of red blood cells.
Many people have no symptoms of microcytic anemia in its earlier stages. The American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) state that doctors discover it by chance when a person is having a blood test for another reason.
For those who have more severe anemia, symptoms may include:
pale skin that looks gray
pale color inside the eyelids or under the nails
weakness or tiredness
irritability
shortness of breath
rapid heart rate
pica, which is a desire to eat things such as ice, dirt, and clay
Causes of microcytic anemia
Share on Pinterest
Irritability, tiredness, and pale skin may be symptoms of severe anemia.
Microcytic anemia can be caused by several different health conditions, ranging from mild problems to more serious issues. It is important to work with a healthcare team to find the underlying cause.
An article in the International Journal of Laboratory Hematology states that microcytic anemia is usually caused by one of the following conditions whose names form the acronym TAILS:
Thalassemia
Thalassemia is an inherited blood disorder that parents can pass down to their children as a result of abnormal genes.
If someone has thalassemia, their body does not make enough of a particular protein typically found in hemoglobin.
Without this protein, red blood cells will not form properly or work as well as they should. The lack of this protein causes anemia, which can range from mild to severe depending on how many genes are affected.
An article in The BMJ states that iron deficiency anemia and thalassemia are the most common causes of microcytic anemia. These two conditions may also occur together in some people.
Anemia of chronic disease
Certain chronic diseases and conditions can cause microcytic anemia. This is usually called anemia of inflammation and chronic disease (AI/CD).
Chronic infections or inflammation can interfere with the way the body processes iron. About one-fourth to one-third of these types of anemia are classified as microcytic.
Some of the conditions that can cause this type of anemia include:
kidney disease
certain cancers, such as Hodgkin’s disease, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and breast cancer
inflammatory diseases such as diabetes, heart failure, Crohn’s disease, inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and lupus
infectious diseases including HIV, AIDS, tuberculosis, and some heart and bone infections
Iron deficiency anemia
The AAFP states iron deficiency is the most common cause of microcytic anemia.
The reason behind iron deficiency often varies depending on a person’s age and sex.
In children, nutritional deficiencies are usually the cause of iron deficiency anemia.
In menstruating women, menstrual blood loss is the most common culprit for iron deficiency.
The most common reason for iron deficiency in adult men and nonmenstruating women is blood loss. Most commonly, this blood loss occurs in the gut, which may be the result of a bleeding ulcer in the stomach.
In some cases, a tumor in the gut can cause bleeding. Some people may need additional testing to look for a tumor or to rule it out.
Older adults may have iron deficiency anemia from because their diet lacks certain nutrients, or because they have particular chronic health conditions that hinder their body’s ability to absorb iron. An article in American Family Physician found that anemia prevalence ranges from 8-44 percent in older men.
Lead poisoning
Children who are exposed to lead-based paint because they live in an older home, or because it is on toys or other objects, can get lead poisoning when they put objects in their mouths.
Contaminated water and exposure to heavy industrial pollution can also cause lead poisoning, though this is less common.
Sideroblastic anemia
Congenital sideroblastic anemia is an inherited blood disorder that affects the bone marrow’s ability to produce red blood cells. Though it can cause microcytic anemia, it is less common than the other causes.
Treatment
Share on Pinterest
A doctor may recommend iron supplements to treat anemia.
People that develop anemia of any type should see their doctor for treatment, even if no symptoms are present.
Although somebody who has mild anemia may feel fine, the condition can cause damage to critical organs in the body over time. Severe or long-lasting anemia can even cause death.
Treatment depends on the underlying cause of microcytic anemia. Doctors may need to carry out some tests to determine a cause so that they can put together a treatment plan.
Doctors may recommend iron supplements, which often resolve microcytic anemia in children. If they do not help, further tests may be needed to check for blood loss or another possible cause.
Other treatment options include:
antibiotics to treat chronic infections that are causing anemia
hormones to treat heavy menstrual bleeding
a medication that stimulates the body to make more red blood cells
blood transfusions (in more severe cases).
surgery to correct a bleeding stomach ulcer or a tumor in the gut
Chelation, which is a therapy that helps reduce lead levels in the body, may also be used. This therapy is sometimes helpful in children with anemia, because anemia makes them more likely to get lead poisoning.
Prevention
In some cases, such as with an inherited disorder, there is no proven way to prevent microcytic anemia completely.
Eating a balanced diet high in iron, vitamin B12, vitamin C, and folic acid can be helpful for almost anyone with anemia.
People who do not get enough iron in their diets may need to take supplements under a doctor’s supervision.
Preventing anemia in babies
The American Academy of Pediatrics says that infants should not be given cow’s milk especially before they are 12 months old. Giving cow’s milk to a child too early can cause blood loss in the stool and can interfere with iron absorption.
Parents should ask their pediatricians about the right age to introduce cow’s milk.
Breast-fed babies usually get enough iron from their mothers up to 4 months of age. Once the baby is ready for solid foods, introduce foods with added iron to their diet. Give formula-fed babies formula that has proper amounts of iron.
Children and cow’s milk
Older children can usually consume up to 2 cups of whole cow’s milk per day. Drinking more than this amount can lead to iron deficiency anemia.
Anemia can occur because:
milk is naturally low in iron
milk can fill a child up, leaving less room for iron-rich foods in the diet
milk contains calcium and casein, which interfere with the body’s ability to absorb iron
Good food sources of iron
People of all ages can benefit from iron-rich foods that can help prevent some types of anemia. Also, foods high in vitamin C, such as citrus fruits, help the body absorb iron better.
The body absorbs the animal form of iron most efficiently, so vegetarians may need to be more mindful of getting enough iron.
Some of the most common iron-rich foods include:
red meat
egg yolks
fortified grains and cereals
beans
leafy, green vegetables
tomatoes
potatoes
raisins
Outlook
The long-term outlook for people with microcytic anemia depends largely upon the cause of the anemia. Most cases are mild, particularly those that are caused by a slight iron deficiency.
More severe forms or those caused by thalassemia, ulcers, or tumors may require more medical care.
The key to a higher quality of life with microcytic anemia is to identify it and treat it as soon as possible.
Getting regular complete blood counts (CBCs) can help diagnose anemia in those who have no symptoms. This leads to earlier treatment of the underlying cause and usually a better quality of life overall.
Last medically reviewed on August 22, 2017
Blood / Hematology
Nutrition / Diet
Pediatrics / Children's Health
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, M.D., MPH — Written by Jennifer Berry on August 22, 2017
Latest news
Study investigates COVID-19 vaccines and myocarditis
COVID-19 booster vaccines: Are they safe and effective?
Ultra-processed foods can lead to a second heart attack or stroke
Omicron variant may increase risk of SARS-CoV-2 reinfection
Plant-based LIFE diet could relieve medication-resistant migraine
Related Coverage
Anemia treatments may arise from red blood cell discovery
A discovery about the hormone EPO explains why the body does not make enough red blood cells in iron-restricted anemias and could lead to new…
READ MORE
What does a high MCHC mean?
Medically reviewed by Jill Seladi-Schulman, Ph.D.
MCHC levels are measured during a complete blood test to identify the amount of hemoglobin in a single blood cell. High levels of MCHC can indicate a…
READ MORE
What's to know about hemoglobin levels?
Medically reviewed by Carissa Stephens, RN, CCRN, CPN
Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells. Oxygen entering the lungs adheres to this protein, allowing blood cells to transport oxygen throughout the…
READ MORE
What to know about iron deficiency anemia
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, M.D., MPH
Iron is a vital mineral in the body, central to transporting oxygen around the body in the hemoglobin. A shortage of iron can cause health problems…
READ MORE
What to know about sickle cell disease
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, M.D., MPH
Sickle cell disease is an inherited condition that can have life threatening consequences. Learn more about what it involves and the treatment options…
READ MORE
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Privacy Settings
Advertising Policy
Health Topics
Health Hubs
Medical Affairs
Content Integrity
Newsletters
Do Not Sell My Info
© 2004-2021 Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK, a Red Ventures Company. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. See additional information.
© 2004-2021 Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK, a Red Ventures Company. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. See additional information.
Energy Industry News110,303
110,303 results
Behavioral Economics Applications to Geriatrics Leveraging EHRs R33 Trial
ClinicalTrials.gov 02/28/2020 07:02
Conditions : Prostate Specific Antigen Screening; Asymptomatic Bacteriuria; Type 2 Diabetes Interventions : Behavioral: EHR clinical decision support nudges; Behavioral: Brief clinician education Sponsors : Northwestern University; University of Southern California; University of California, Los Angeles Not yet recruiting.
Skeletal Fragility in Type 1 Diabetes: Glycemic Control and Bone Strength
Condition : Type1diabetes Intervention : Sponsor : Columbia University Active, not recruiting.
Quiet Eye Duration in Baseball
Condition : Gaze Tracking Intervention : Other: Gaze tracking - no intervention Sponsor : Ohio State University Recruiting.
U.S. Must Threaten Russia With Military Intervention in Idlib to Secure Ceasefire, Former Envoy Says
Newsweek 02/28/2020 07:02
The conflict in northwestern Syria is in danger of spilling over after a Syrian airstrike killed 33 Turkish soldiers on Thursday.
Conditions : Supracondylar Humerus Fracture; Infection Interventions : Drug: Cefazolin; Drug: normal saline Sponsor : Legacy Health System Not yet recruiting.
Phase II Trial of Romiplostim With Danazol in Patients With Eltrombopag-resistant Immune Thrombocytopenia
Condition : Immune Thrombocytopenia Intervention : Drug: Romiplostim and danazol Sponsors : Seoul National University Hospital; Kyowa Hakko Kirin Korea Co., Ltd. Not yet recruiting.
Novel Electronic Monitoring Devices (NEMD) to Monitor Adherence in Children With Asthma
Condition : Asthma in Children Intervention : Device: Novel Electronic Monitoring Device Sponsors : Imperial College London; Asthma UK Completed.
Condition : Center-involved Diabetic Macular Edema Intervention : Drug: Aflibercept Injection [Eylea] Sponsors : Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taiwan; Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital.; National Taiwan University Hospital; Chang Gung Memorial Hospital Completed.
The Viscoelastic Properties of Lower Extremity's Muscles
Condition : Muscle Loss Intervention : Diagnostic Test: Myotonometric evaluation Sponsor : Hasan Kalyoncu University Completed.
Conditions : Liver Cancer; Liver Cirrhoses; Liver Carcinoma Intervention : Drug: Gadolinium ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid Sponsors : University of California, San Diego; Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals, Inc./Bayer Schering Pharma; Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Recruiting.
Condition : Breast Neoplasm Malignant Female Interventions : Drug: Letrozole; Other: standard-stimulated cohort Sponsors : Erasme University Hospital; University Hospital, Lille Recruiting.
Condition : Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 2, Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 7 Interventions : Procedure: Lumbar puncture; Other: Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Sponsors : Institut National de la Santé Et de la Recherche Médicale, France; Biogen; Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Not yet recruiting.
Multiple Sclerosis: Chi3L1 and Treatment Efficacy
Condition : Multiple Sclerosis Intervention : Drug: Interferon-Beta Sponsor : Central Hospital, Nancy, France Completed.
Condition : Corona Virus Disease 2019(COVID-19) Interventions : Biological: MSCs; Biological: Saline containing 1% Human serum albumin(solution of MSC) Sponsors : Beijing 302 Hospital; VCANBIO CELL & GENE ENGINEERING CORP.,LTD, China; Wuhan Huoshenshan Hospital, Wuhan, China; Tianjin Haihe Hospital; Shenzhen Third People's Hospital; Fifth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University; Wuhan Union Hospital, China; West China Hospital Not yet recruiting.
NASDAQ 02/28/2020 07:01
Non-inferiority of Ultrasound for the Diagnosis of Upper Extremity Fractures in Children
ClinicalTrials.gov 02/28/2020 07:01
Condition : Pediatric Fracture Diagnosis by Ultrasound Compared to X-ray Intervention : Diagnostic Test: Ultrasound Sponsor : University Children's Hospital Basel Not yet recruiting.
Ultrasound Assessment of the Effect of Metoclopramide Versus Granisetron on Gastric Volume in Patients Undergoing Caesarean Section
Condition : Aspiration Vomitus Intervention : Drug: metoclopramide versus granisetron Sponsor : Assiut University Recruiting.
Detection of Coronary Artery Disease With Micro Electro-Mechanical Sensors
Condition : Coronary Artery Disease Intervention : Sponsor : Precordior Ltd Recruiting.
Constant Contact Best Practices Blog 02/28/2020 07:00
Trying to put together a social media marketing strategy for your real estate business can feel a bit like drinking from a firehose. There are so many opportunities for success, tons of advice out there on how to achieve your goals, but not much in the way of a Step…. .
GlobeNewswire 02/28/2020 07:00
MANSFIELD, Mass., Feb. 28, 2020 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- inTEST Corporation (NYSE American: INTT), a global supplier of precision-engineered solutions for use in manufacturing and testing across a wide range of markets including automotive, defense/aerospace, energy, industrial, semiconductor and telecommunications, today announced financial results for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2019.
Taste and adjust the seasoning (it may well need a good pinch of salt and pepper). Add the peas, cream and lemon juice, stir and bubble for another five minutes until the peas are cooked and the sauce has come together.
Tonight's Dinner is published every week day on telegraph.co.uk at 6am. For more recipe ideas click here

Many people nowadays need special maintenance due to their health problems or mental disorders. People in need of medical attention should make a daily plan for it. Hire a caregiver for them if needed. Track the daily intakes and record the medical history encountered by using our professionally designed Medical Planner Templates. These 100% fully customizable and accessible templates are downloadable in any available file formats—Microsoft Word (.docx) and Apple Pages (.pages). Keep track of your daily health medications, blood pressure, mental condition, and doctor appointments with the help of this template. It's a convenient and time-saving template. Download now!
Eletriptan Uses, Side Effects & Warnings - Drugs.com
Generic name: eletriptan [ EL-e-TRIP-tan ]
Dosage form: oral tablet (20 mg; 40 mg)
Medically reviewed by Drugs.com on Jul 2, 2020. Written by Cerner Multum.
Eletriptan is used to treat migraine headaches with or without aura in adults. Eletriptan will only treat a headache that has already begun. It will not prevent headaches or reduce the number of attacks.
Eletriptan should not be used to treat a common tension headache, a headache that causes loss of movement on one side of your body, or any headache that seems to be different from your usual migraine headaches. Use eletriptan only if your condition has been confirmed by a doctor as migraine headaches.
You should not use eletriptan if you have ever had heart disease, coronary artery disease, blood circulation problems, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, uncontrolled high blood pressure, severe liver disease, a heart attack or stroke, or if your headache seems to be different from your usual migraine headaches.
Do not use eletriptan within 72 hours before or after taking: clarithromycin, troleandomycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, ritonavir, or nelfinavir.
You should not use eletriptan if you are allergic to it, or if you have:
liver or renal disease;
heart problems or stroke; or
risk factors for coronary artery disease (such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, menopause, smoking, a family history of coronary artery disease, being overweight, or being older than 40 and a man).
Be sure your doctor knows if you also take stimulant medicine, opioid medicine, herbal products, or medicine for depression, mental illness, Parkinson's disease, migraine headaches, serious infections, or prevention of nausea and vomiting. These medicines may interact with eletriptan and cause a serious condition called serotonin syndrome.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether eletriptan will harm an unborn baby. However, having migraine headaches during pregnancy may cause complications such as high blood pressure or eclampsia (dangerously high blood pressure that can lead to medical problems in both mother and baby). The benefit of treating migraines may outweigh any risks to the baby.
It may not be safe to breastfeed while using eletriptan. Ask your doctor about any risk.
Eletriptan is not approved for use by anyone younger than 18 years old.
How should I take eletriptan?
If you use eletriptan long-term, your heart function may need to be checked using an electrocardiograph or ECG (sometimes called an EKG).
What should I avoid while taking eletriptan?
Avoid driving or hazardous activity until you know how eletriptan will affect you. Your reactions could be impaired.
Eletriptan may cause serious side effects. Call your doctor at once if you have:
Eletriptan may cause serious side effects. Stop using eletriptan and call your doctor at once if you have:
Common side effects of eletriptan may include:
Eletriptan side effects (more detail)
Eletriptan dosing information
Detailed Eletriptan dosage information
Tell your doctor about all your other medicines, especially an antidepressant.
Other drugs may affect eletriptan, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Tell your doctor about all your current medicines and any medicine you start or stop using.
Combination Calcium Channel Blocker Therapy
Combination Calcium Channel Blocker Therapy in the Treatment of Hypertension
Effective control of blood pressure is usually achieved only with the use of two or more antihypertensive medications. The treatment options for hypertension are numerous, and the number of possible combinations large. The selection of a specific combination drug regimen has often been linked to the perceived need for diuretic therapy as first- or second-step therapy; thus, the popularity of such drug combinations as an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor/diuretic, an angiotensin-receptor blocker/diuretic, or a b blocker/diuretic. Rational alternatives exist, including an ACE inhibitor/calcium channel blocker (CCB) or a dihydropyridine CCB/b blocker combination. Traditionally, recommendations have advised against the use of combination therapy with two drugs from the same therapeutic class. However, because of the different binding and pharmacologic characteristics of CCBs, a rationale exists for combining different agents in this class in the management of hypertension and/or symptomatic coronary artery disease. In the treatment of either hypertension or angina, combination CCB therapy can prove uniquely successful.
Ten calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are currently marketed in the United States. These agents are employed in the treatment of hypertension, angina, and/or supraventricular arrhythmias. Nimodipine is approved for short-term use in patients who have suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil are the only CCBs currently available in intravenous formulations. Long-term treatment with CCBs is typically by the oral route. Long-acting CCBs are now the preferred mode of therapy in the treatment of hypertension and/or angina when a CCB is opted for (Table 1).[1]
CCBs are a heterogeneous group of compounds, with distinctive structures and pharmacologic properties. There are three distinct subclasses of CCBs, which explains the differences observed with these agents. These subclasses are the phenylalkylamines (e.g., verapamil), the benzothiazepines (e.g., diltiazem) and the dihydropyridines (e.g., nifedipine, amlodipine, felodipine). All currently available CCBs are vasodilators and thereby reduce blood pressure. The relative potency of CCBs as vasodilators varies, with dihydropyridine-type compounds, such as nifedipine, regarded as the most potent subclass, and verapamil, diltiazem, and bepridil as somewhat less potent.
In vitro, several calcium antagonists (e.g., nifedipine, nisoldipine, and isradipine) bind with some selectivity to the L-type calcium channel present in blood vessels, whereas verapamil binds equally well to cardiac and vascular L-type calcium channels.[2,3] The applicability of these in vitro findings to treatment response in humans remains ill-defined. In vitro, all CCB subclasses both depress sinus node activity and slow atrioventricular conduction. Only verapamil and diltiazem delay atrioventricular conduction or cause sinus node depression at doses in common use clinically.[1] Similarly, all CCB subclasses exhibit a concentration-dependent negative inotropic effect in vitro, but only verapamil and diltiazem do so in vivo. The disparities between the in vitro and in vivo effects may relate, in part, to the sympathetic activation triggered by dihydropyridine-induced vasodilation, which blunts any direct negative chronotropic and inotropic effects.
Cite this: Combination Calcium Channel Blocker Therapy in the Treatment of Hypertension - Medscape - Sep 01, 2001.
JCO Accreditation Preparation Assistance: JCO Hospital Accreditation
LifeWings® Programs Improve Hospital Quality
Our Services Keep Evolving To Ensure Dramatic Results at Hospitals Nationwide
LifeWings pioneered the use of aviation-based safety tools to improve patient safety in 2001. With these proven tools we have facilitated remarkable, life-saving results with our clients. We continuously update our methodology and approaches to offer hospitals nationwide a comprehensive suite of services that reflect the latest research on how to improve the quality of healthcare. In addition to our core Patient Safety Improvement Program, our clients are able to reap the proven benefits of simulation training,TeamSTEPPS®, CRM Training, and more. Through the expert deployment of these evolving methods, LifeWings clients continue to see results like these:
Statistically significant improvement in Employee Satisfaction Survey results; Perioperative services RN turnover as low as 2%; 34% improvement in willingness to speak up and advocate for patient safety; 118% improvement in willingness to discuss ways to prevent errors from happening again; 196% improvement in willingness to question decisions or actions of those with more authority; Reduction in nurse-physician occurrence reports; 30% improvement in perception of effectiveness of MD-RN communication skills; Employee turnover well below the hospital mean; Statistically significant improvement in attitudes of care givers toward using teamwork and communication to provide better care1; Fewer Errors, Less Rework and Waste
195% improvement in uneventful procedural cases; 50.1% reduction in surgical counts errors2 ; 25% decrease in medication discrepancies; 20% decrease in OR equipment discrepancies; 50% decrease in patient ID discrepancies; 32% decrease in malpractice claims dollars per surgical discharge; Documented avoidance of wrong surgeries; Documented avoidance of serious medication errors; Eliminated OR Sentinel Events; Improved Efficiency and Reliability
51% improvement in OR turnaround times; Total elimination of wrong surgeries; 75% improvement in pre-procedure antibiotic administration; Improvement in employee satisfaction; Improvement in adherence to diabetes treatment protocols and clinically significant improvements in patient outcomes and reduction in time-to train for new hire employees3 ; Decrease of patient visit time by 10 minutes with improvements in clinical care; Approximately 50% decrease in open claims files for potentially compensable events; Better Care and Outcomes
75% improvement in pre-procedure antibiotic administration; 50% improvement in observed to expected mortality ratios; 40% decrease in Class 1 surgical infections; 57% improvement in observed to expected mortality with patients with risk of mortality of less than 10%. 1Eric L Grogan, MD, MPH, Renée A Stiles, PhD, Daniel J France, PhD, MPH, Theodore Speroff, PhD, John A Morris Jr, MD, FACS, Bill Nixon, MA, F Andrew Gaffney, MD, Rhea Seddon, MD, C Wright Pinson, MD, MBA, FACS. "The Impact of Aviation-based Teamwork Training on the Attitudes of Healthcare Professionals." The American College of Surgeons 2004; Vol. 199, No. 6.
2RM Rivers, Diane Swain, and Bill Nixon, "Using aviation safety measures to enhance patient outcomes," AORN Journal 2003; 77:158.
3Taylor, C.R., Hepworth, J.T., Buerhaus, P.I., Dittus, R., Speroff, T. (September, 2005).Using Crew Resource Management to improve diabetes care in a primary care setting. Proceedings of the 2nd Safety Across High-Consequence Industries conference. St. Louis, MO.
Webinars to help you power through
each stage of your research journey.
We care about helping experts undertake better research. This webinar series is designed to help researchers, librarians and research support staff navigate the research workflow more effectively and efficiently. Each session is free and presented by experts from across the Web of Science Group demonstrating essential training, guidance, and practical tips to help you research smarter. Check back regularly to see the topics being covered each month, or register for the entire series.
Are you based in the UK or Europe?
Click here to see our European webinar calendar
Explore research trends in your field with InCites Benchmarking & Analytics
2:00 pm Eastern Standard Time (New York, GMT-05:00) Presenter: Kristen Faeth
Looking for new collaborators or potential sources of funding for your next project? InCites Benchmarking & Analytics helps you quickly identify influential research organizations, top funders, and publishing trends in a topic area. Learn how you can use Web of Science and InCites to generate valuable insights that help advance research.
Extend your discovery to include quality global content
with the Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)
Gain insight into our selection process and why these journals matter to your faculty.
Open and Impactful - Using Web of Science to Reveal Your Institution's Open Access Footprint
Thursday, 12 December, 2019 | 2pm EST (New York, GMT-04:00)
Through a partnership with Impactstory, now Our Research, Web of Science identifies article-level Open Access information across its 34,000 journals. Around 12.8 million items are currently identified as Open Access (Gold, Hybrid, Green), with links to this OA full text. Not only does this make access to free, legal article PDFs simple for faculty, researchers, and students, but it also enables librarians to do analysis of Open Access content published by their institution, including Hybrid OA articles. In this session, we will use Web of Science and InCites Benchmarking & Analytics to analyze the volume of Open Access content from an institution, as well as its impact. This analysis can inform library decisions about APC policies and journal subscriptions.
Friday, 22 November, 2019 | 2pm EST (New York, GMT-04:00)
Learn how to analyze journal performance with and beyond Journal Impact Factors. Make better decisions about where to publish with a range of metrics and techniques thanks to our objective and independent journal intelligence.
What's new in the Web of Science
Friday, 1 November, 2019 | 2pm EST (New York, GMT-04:00)
See what's new in Web of Science to help you power through your researcher journey: harness over 1.5 billion cited references in Web of Science to uncover the right research and see real-life examples of how searching citation networks across the Web of Science universe will help you uncover research relevant to your field
What research are you missing?
Tips for understanding the complete research landscape.
From 20 June, 2019
How can you be sure that you're aware of all research relevant to your field? Our experts will show you how to set up your workflow to ensure you have a simple and repeatable way of finding past and present research from across disciplines, geographies, journals, books, conference proceedings, experimental data sets, and patents. Don't miss out on important research. Set yourself up to succeed with a comprehensive, quality-controlled workflow for research discovery.
Journal Citation Reports: 2019 update
From 27 June, 2019
The 2019 Journal Citation Reports are coming out this month! Learn how to analyze journal performance with and beyond Journal Impact Factors. Make better decisions about where to publish with a range of metrics and techniques thanks to our objective and independent journal intelligence.
From 21 August, 2019
Are you spending countless hours trying to locate data across hundreds of disparate data repositories? Join us for expert hacks on rapidly pinpointing the data you're looking for from across research data studies, data sets, software, and more.
How to never miss crucial life sciences research
From 29 August, 2019
Back to School: Connecting Students to Scholarly Research Fast
From 26 September 2019
Back to school; back to research! Discover high-impact practices in the Web of Science that help promote information literacy and other skills to develop student competencies for finding scholarly research.
What it means to be a Highly Cited Researcher
Professor Jonathan Adams and David Pendlebury from the Institute for Scientific Information discuss what it means to be named a Highly Cited Researcher, the methodology, and how citation analysis, when applied correctly, can even predict Nobel Laureates.
Vanessa began her career in scientific research working in academia and the pharmaceutical industry. Vanessa's experience now helps institutions and researchers master their workflow.
Tracy Matthews MSLIS
Tracy has extensive experience teaching best practices in literature search and analytics. Using her background in librarianship, she helps organizations tackle the information needs and challenges across scholarly communication workflows.
