Rendezvous: control theorists gather for the 8th Meeting on Systems and Control Theory - Electrical & Computer Engineering | Electrical & Computer Engineering
Rendezvous: control theorists gather for the 8th Meeting on Systems and Control Theory
Participants hear one of the more than 20 talks at the 8th Meeting on Systems and Control Theory in the Bahen Centre for Information Technology. (Photo: Jessica MacInnis)
From swarming robots to electoral voting patterns, control theorists investigate the underlying principles that make artificial or natural systems function autonomously without human intervention.
More than 100 professors, graduate students and postdocs from across Canada gathered at the University of Toronto to discuss the theory and principles behind these systems and more at the biannual Meeting on Systems and Control Theory, over May 7-9 in the Bahen Centre for Information Technology and the Sandford Fleming Building. This was the eighth meeting of its kind and was organized by Professor Manfredi Maggiore of The Edward S. Rogers Sr. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE).
"Canada is a leader in control theory, and at U of T in particular we have an impressive presence in the discipline," said Professor Maggiore. "ECE's Systems Control group is internationally renowned for its fundamental contributions to the field."
The biannual meeting began in the early 2000s when Professor Maggiore met at a conference with colleagues Professor Andrew Lewis from Queen's University and Professor Brian Ingalls of the University of Waterloo. They decided to meet periodically to informally discuss their research and the discipline in a Canadian context.
"We eventually decided to rotate these meetings between the three universities, and over the years we kept getting more and more interest from people across the country," said Professor Maggiore. "This year we have more than 100 people here for the meeting and talks, coming from across Canada and as far as Sweden and Latin America."
Participants heard talks from researchers at universities across Canada on topics ranging from human-machine interface theory to classical adaptive control. Students demonstrated their work during poster presentations between talks.
"The objective of the meeting is to share ideas, and to allow colleagues to present their research results in a friendly and supportive setting," said Professor Maggiore. "The emphasis of the meeting is on research results with a fundamental theoretical component of interest to a general systems control audience."
By providing an opportunity to share research with other control theorists, Maggiore hopes to foster collaboration between attendees and across disciplines.
"Systems and control theory is by nature interdisciplinary," said Professor Maggiore. "Whether it is the cruise control in your car, the physiology of a human grasping an object and picking it up or climate modelling — the discipline that underlies all of these examples is control theory so it's important that we share our work with other control theorists and with researchers in other fields."
Sree Chitra Institute's low-cost COVID-19 test kit gets ICMR nod | Kerala News | Manorama English
Sree Chitra Institute's low-cost COVID-19 test kit gets ICMR nod
Published: April 17, 2020 10:27 PM IST
Thiruvananthapuram: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given preliminary clearance to the Chitra GeneLAMP-N test kit developed by Kerala-based Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) in Thiruvananthapuram for COVID-19 which costs less than Rs 1,000.
The normal test for the disease is PCR test which is much more expensive. Moreover, the equipment for PCR test is priced at around Rs 40 lakh while that for GeneLAMP-N test would be available for Rs 2.5 lakh.
The diagnostic test kit developed by the Thiruvananthapuram institute can detect coronavirus in 10 minutes, and the sample to result time will be less than two hours, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan tweeted on Friday.
Sree Chitra's test works utilizing a technology called reverse transcriptase loop-mediated amplification of viral nucleic acid (RT-LAMP). It is more accurate in locating the n-gene of the coronavirus than other tests. It is also among the first tests in the world using this technology.
The test would show correct results even when mutation occurs at any portion of the virus gene. This fact was proved when the test was scrutinized by experts at Virology Institute, Alappuzha following a directive from ICMR. In fact, the GeneLAMP-N could identify the gene within 10 minutes. Moreover, as 30 samples can be tested with one batch, widespread testing too may be carried out.
The kit was developed by a team at SCTIMST headed by senior scientist in the Biomedical Technology Department Dr Anoop Thekkuveettil.
Meanwhile, the technical know-how for commercial production of the test kits has been handed over to Agappe Diagnostics, an Ernakulam-based firm. Production would start as soon as the Central Drugs Control Department issued a licence. However, the royalty fees for SCTIMST has been waived considering the emergency situation, said Institute Director Dr Asha Kishore.
5dnk7ccabbq1vqide8lmoau0gv https-www-onmanorama-com-news-kerala onmanorama-topic-organisation-4-icmr onmanorama-topic-organisation-7-sree-chitra-thirunal-institute- https-www-onmanorama-com-acp
Build up your immune system ... take Vitamin C, garlic, lemon, cayenne pepper, echinacea, astragalus or other supplements to keep you immune system strong
Make sure you get enough rest... take a clue from nature, this is the time to sleep more and be still
Wash your hands ... people cough and sneeze then put their hands on everything, doorknobs, hand rails, elevator buttons... make sure you wash your hands often throughout the day
Drink herbal tea ... peppermint, ginger, hibiscus or sorrel will keep you warm inside and keep blood clear
Drink more water... water helps to flush the system and moves mucus out of your body... add lemon juice for extra cleansing power
Avoid the flu shot .. many people who get it actually get sick more than ones who don't
Avoid stress ... stress will compromise your immune system
Stay warm ... layer your clothes, keep your head and feet covered
Take castor oil, cod liver oil or aloe vera juice to keep your colon clean... if their are toxins in your colon it is easy for sickness to settle in your body
Say your prayers... are overall health and wellness is connected to our spiritual self.... a strong spiritual person rarely gets sick
Ankh Udja Seneb .... Life Properity and Good health to you all
0 Comments
Leave a Reply.
Author
Nia Yaa, founder of Ra Sekhi Arts Temple...we are here to promote health and wellness....natural living....love...joy...and MAAT
Overview of medical therapy for gastroesophageal disease - Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Clinics
Review article| Volume 13, ISSUE 1, P57-68, January 01, 2003
Overview of medical therapy for gastroesophageal disease
Amarnath Ramakrishnan, MD
Department of Medicine, Graduate Hospital, 1800 Lombard Street, Suite 501, Pepper Pavilion, Philadelphia, PA 19146, USA
DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/S1052-5157(02)00105-8
Previous ArticleHistorical perspectives on the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease
Next ArticleAn overview of the success and failure of surgical therapy: standards against which the outcome of endoscopic therapy is measured
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is now the most common upper gastrointestinal disorder in the Western Hemisphere. The disease burden of GERD results from the unfavorable impact of symptoms on well being and quality of life. While abnormalities of the antireflux barrier (lower esophageal sphincter) are important in the pathophysiology of GERD, severity of symptoms and esophageal mucosal injury can be correlated with the total time that the esophageal mucosa is in contact with acid (time pH < 4). Hence, acid suppression comprises the principle approach to therapy [
Castell D.O
]. The identification of a specific molecular mechanism of acid secretion, the proton pump (HK ATPase) has resulted in the development of the proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which have superceded the histamine H2- receptor antagonists (H2RAs) as the primary agents of choice for achieving goals of medical therapy of GERD which include symptom relief, improving quality of life, healing and prevention of mucosal injury in most patients.
Efficacy and safety of medical therapy
The efficacy of antireflux medications in symptom relief and healing of mucosal injury can now be judged from well-designed clinical trials with clinically meaningful endpoints. Histamine H2- receptor antagonists (H2RAs) provided the first effective antisecretory therapy for GERD. These agents are extremely safe but are limited by the need for frequent dosing, development of tolerance, and pharmacodynamic interaction with food intake [
Hatlebakk J.G
Gastroesophageal reflux during three months of therapy with ranitidine in reflux esophagitis.
Scand J Gastroenterol. 1996; 31: 954-958
Frislid K
Prolonged influence of a meal on the effect of ranitidine.
Scand J Gastroenterol. 1984; 19: 429-432
]. Four H2RAs are available and are equivalent. Symptom relief is seen in 38% to 72% and healing in about half of the patients treated with twice daily doses of H2RAs. Data accumulated with PPIs in comparison to placebo and H2RAs make these the drugs of choice in most GERD patients with or without esophageal mucosal injury [
Kahrilas P.J
JAMA. 1996; 276: 933-938
Bardhan K.D
Omeprazole in the treatment of erosive esophagitis refractory to high dose of cimetidine and ranitidine.
Gut. 1990; 31: 745-749
Huang J.Q
Hunt R.H
Meta-analysis of comparative trials for healing erosive esophagitis with proton pump inhibitors and H2-receptor antagonists.
Gastroenterology. 1998; 114 ([abstract]): A154
A comparison of lansoprazole and ranitidine in the treatment of erosive esophagitis.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1995; 9: 25-31
Richter J.E
Arch Intern Med. 2000; 160: 1803-1809
] and in those with extraesophageal manifestations. PPIs provide patients with more complete symptom relief and heal inflammation, facilitating these goals in a more rapid fashion when compared to H2RAs. The first 4 available PPIs (omeprazole 20 mg, lansoprazole 30 mg, rabeprazole 20 mg, or pantoprazole 40 mg) have been comparable in the degree of gastric acid suppression [
Tutian R
Katz P.O
A PPI is a PPI; Lessons from prolonged intra-gastric monitoring.
Gastroenterology. 2000; 118 ([abstract]): A332
] and in the efficacy of treatment for GERD in terms of symptom control and healing erosions when taken at standard doses [
Hawkey C.J
Stack W.A
PPI's: Pharmacology and rationale for use in gastrointestinal disorders.
Drugs. 1998; 56: 307-335
]. Symptom relief and healing have been documented in 78% to 92% of patients with PPIs. In a meta-analytic comparison there was no difference in overall heartburn symptom resolution with the newer PPIs compared with omeprazole at 4 weeks [
Healing and relapse rates in GERD treated with the newer PPI's lansoprazole, rabeprazole, and pantoprazole compared with omeprazole, ranitidine, and placebo: evidence from randomized clinical trials.
Clin Ther. 2001; 7: 998-1017
Esomeprazole, a sterioisomer of omeprazole, is the first PPI to show a statistical advantage in healing and symptom relief over treatment with omeprazole and lansoprazole in patients with erosive esophagitis particularly in patients with grade C and D [
Falk G.W
Johnson D.A
Esomeprazole improves healing and symptom resolution as compared with omeprazole in reflux esophagitis patients: a randomized controlled trial.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2000; 14: 1249-1258
Efficacy and safety of esomeprazole compared with omeprazole in GERD patients with erosive esophagitis: A randomized controlled study.
Am J Gastroenterol. 2001; 96: 656-665
Am J Gastroenterol. 2002; 97: 575-583
]. In comparative trials, after 5 days of once daily administration, esomeprazole 40 mg controlled intragastric pH to a significantly greater degree than other PPIs, which is likely the explanation for the superior healing at higher grades of erosive esophagitis [
Todays Therapeutic Trends. 2001; 19: 235-250
PPIs have an excellent short-term safety profile, with the most common side effects headache, nausea and diarrhea seen with similar frequency to placebo. Long term safety issues with PPIs have largely been eliminated, with no long term complications reported in up to 11 years of continuous use [
Klinkenberg–Knol E
Long-term omeprazole treatment in resistant gastroesophageal reflux disease.
Gastroenterology. 2000; 118: 661-669
]. There is no evidence that it is necessary to perform regular routine laboratory testing or endoscopy with gastric biopsies in such patients. One study reported the increased risk of atrophic gastritis in H pylori positive patients receiving PPIs, however a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) panel concluded that based on the available data, PPI relabelling for cancer risk is not warranted [
Proton pump inhibitor relabelling for cancer risk is not warranted.
FDA reports. November 11, 1996
]. No studies to date have reported the development of dysplasia or gastric adenocarcinoma with long term PPI use in humans. Dose reduction of PPIs is not necessary in patients with compromised renal or hepatic function. Some PPIs may theoretically interact with drugs metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system. Clinically, this is rarely an issue.
PPIs are the mainstay for therapy of severe and complicated GERD by virtue of effective acid suppression. Meta-analytic studies support the statement that healing of esophagitis is directly related to the percentage of a 24-hour period that the gastric pH is maintained above a pH of 4. Once-daily dosing of a PPI (omeprazole 20 mg, lansoprazole 30 mg, pantoprazole 40 mg or rabeprazole 20 mg) is effective for acute and long-term management of GERD. Healing rates for erosive esophagitis range from 78% to 93% at 8 weeks and are comparable when PPIs are compared head to head. Maintenance studies report continued healing of erosive esophagitis in 80% to 90% of patients over 12 months of study [
Leandor G
]. On higher doses one would expect somewhat higher rates of response, but few data are available. Two large multicenter, randomized, double blind trials have shown superiority of esomeprazole 40 mg to omeprazole 20 mg at 8 weeks across all grades in the treatment of GERD patients with erosive esophagitis with comparable safety and tolerability profiles (Fig 1). Similar results have been shown comparing esomeprazole 40 mg to lansoprazole 30 mg once daily (Fig 2).
Fig. 1Healing rates of erosive esophagitis at weeks 4 and 8 comparing esomeprazole 40 and lansoprazole 30 across grades A through D LA grade erosive esophagitis. (Data from Castell et al. Am J Gastroenterol. 2002;97:575)
*P = 0.0001 versus lansoprazole.
Fig. 2Healing rates of erosive esophagitis (Y axis) in two pivotal trials submitted to the FDA comparing esomeprazole 40 mg to omeprazole 20 mg showing statistical superiority of esomeprazole to omeprazole in doses shown. (Data from Kahrilas et al. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2000;14:1249–58; Richter et al. Am J Gastroenterol. 2001;96:656–65)
†P < 0.001 versus omeprazole.
In patients with peptic esophageal strictures, PPIs in comparison with H2 antagonists have shown superior healing rates and required fewer dilatations to relieve dysphagia [
Marks R.D
Gastroenterology. 1994; 106: 907-915
Smith P.M
Kerr G.D
A comparison of omeprazole and ranitidine in the prevention of recurrence of benign esophageal stricture.
Gastroenterology. 1994; 107: 1312-1318
In patients with endoscopy negative reflux disease, symptom resolution and prevention of symptom relapse are end points of therapy. There is ample evidence to suggest that symptom severity, quality of life scores and therapeutic requirements of patients with non-erosive reflux disease are similar to those with erosive esophagitis. Several placebo-controlled studies have shown that PPIs are more effective than placebo in achieving symptom control. One of these studies suggested that abnormal esophageal acid exposure on pH monitoring significantly influenced the response to treatment, with a greater response in patients with an abnormal acid exposure [
Carlsson O
Scand J Gastroenterol. 1997; 32: 974-979
]. Though clearly superior to placebo and H2RAs [
] in terms of therapeutic efficacy in relieving symptoms, the PPIs seem to be less effective in these patients than in patients with erosive disease. Carlsson et al showed that a 20 mg dose of omeprazole achieved complete symptom relief in only 48% of patients with erosive esophagitis when compared with 29% of patients without erosive disease after 4 weeks of therapy [
Euro J Gatsroenterol Hepatol. 1998; 10: 119-124
]. This suggests that some patients with so called non-erosive GERD have symptoms mediated by something other than acid, or require more acid control to relieve symptoms.
The goals of therapy in patients with Barrett's esophagus include elimination of GERD symptoms, maintenance of healed mucosa, and prevention of disease progression, similar to all patients with GERD. Patients with Barrett's esophagus have higher levels of esophageal acid exposure than other patients with GERD requiring higher than usual dose of PPIs for esophageal acid control [
Katzka D.A
Successful elimination of reflux symptoms does not ensure adequate control of acid reflux in patients with Barrett's esophagus.
Am J Gastroenterol. 1994; 89: 989-991
]. They also have a higher frequency of reflux associated esophageal motility abnormalities, which are associated with a higher risk for nocturnal acid reflux despite PPI therapy [
Motility abnormalities in columnar lined esophagus.
Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 1997; 26: 519-531
]. Though normalization of esophageal milieu by acid suppression minimizes cellular proliferation, controversy regarding the possible regression of Barrett's epithelium from medical therapy continues. While some have suggested that aggressive anti reflux therapy is indicated in patients with Barrett's esophagus, no studies have proven that it alters the natural history of this disease. Medical therapy is as effective as surgery in the treatment of Barrett's patients, including effect or lack thereof on progression to cancer.
Healing of mucosal injury or achievement of symptom control alone is not sufficient to alter the natural history of this disease and almost all patients require some form of maintenance therapy.
Individuals with endoscopically documented erosive esophagitis have shown recurrence rates ranging from 75% to 92% following discontinuation of PPI [
Am J Med. 1997; 102: 78-88
]. In addition, if a patient has a recurrence and is brought back into remission with a PPI, there is a 90% chance that the patient will have another recurrence if the PPI is discontinued again. In a landmark study comparing five maintenance regimens for patients with healed esophagitis, Vigneri et al [
] showed significantly higher remission rates with PPI therapy than with H2RAs or prokinetics. Various attempts to use low dose PPI maintenance therapies for reasons of cost have only met with varying success, as most patients relapse within a few months. Recently Ladas et al [
Ladas S.D
Tassios P.S
Raptis S.A
Selection of patients for successful maintenance treatment of esophagitis with low dose omeprazole: use of 24-hour gastric pH monitoring.
Am J Gastroenterol. 2000; 95: 374-380
] reported that using gastric pH monitoring after healing, one can predict which patients are more likely to remain in remission with low dose omeprazole therapy.
Step down therapy has been advocated by some though data are weak. Inadomi et al recently examined the feasibility of step down therapy in patients with non erosive symptomatic GERD who were rendered asymptomatic with PPIs [
Inadomi J.M
Murata G.H
Gastroenterology. 2001; 121: 1095-1100
]. After obtaining baseline demographic and quality of life information, PPIs were withdrawn from the patients in a stepwise fashion. Fifty-eight percent of patients were asymptomatic after discontinuation of treatment after 1 year of follow-up; 34% required H2RAs; 7% prokinetic agents; 1% both; whereas 15% remained asymptomatic without medication. Although quality of life was not significantly different, management costs decreased by 37%. Younger age and heartburn as the predominant symptom predicted unsuccessful PPI step-down management, suggesting those with "true GERD" will require full dose maintenance.
Management of the refractory patient
PPIs are the most potent drugs available for the treatment of GERD and are definitely the standard by which medical refractoriness should be defined. As well as these agents work, they do not afford symptom relief or heal mucosal injury in all patients. Patients may fail PPI therapy due to the following: (1) An incorrect diagnosis of GERD, (2) Non-acid gastroesophageal reflux, (3) Failure to control gastric acidity. Several reasons have been postulated as to why PPI therapy may fail to control gastric acidity (Box 1).
Suboptimal ppi response—potential mechanisms
Oral bioavailability of PPIs varies considerably between subjects and may be decreased further when taken along with antacids or H2 blockers.
PPIs are least efficacious during periods of parietal cells quiescence and have a lesser effect on acid suppression when taken at times other than just before a meal.
Hypersecretors may show a diminished effect to PPIs, but hypersecretion is uncommon in GERD.
Genetic variations in hepatic cytochrome P 450 2C19 enzyme may result in more rapid metabolism of PPI thereby limiting potency.
Though this is controversial, the eradication of H pylori may decrease PPI efficacy.
There is a small group of patients who are PPI resistant despite normal blood levels of the drug, strongly suggesting an abnormality of the proton pump, which has however not been identified.
Seventy percent of normal subjects on PPI therapy twice a day have periods of gastric pH less than 4 lasting for 60 minutes or longer during the night; this is termed nocturnal gastric acid breakthrough (NAB) [
Peghini P.L
Bracy N.A
Am J Gastroenterol. 1998; 93: 763-767
]. This phenomenon, which is of potential clinical importance when accompanied by reflux of acid into the esophagus, appears to be infrequent in normal subjects and patients with uncomplicated GERD, but may be seen in up to 50% of patients with Barrett's esophagus and scleroderma [
Khoury R.M
Gastroesophageal reflux associated with nocturnal acid breakthrough on proton pump inhibitors.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1998; 12: 1231-1234
]. In the difficult to manage patients who have breakthrough symptoms despite twice a day PPI therapy before breakfast and dinner, the authors perform combined intragastric and intraesophageal pH monitoring on therapy. If there is symptom correlation with esophageal acid exposure, one is more certain of this association. In patients with ineffective gastric pH control despite maximal dose of PPI, changing from one PPI to another may be considered [
Karvois D
Lansoprazole is superior to omeprazole in increasing both 24-hour and nighttime intragastric pH in "omeprazole failure" GERD patients.
Am J Gastroenterol. 1997; 92 ([abstract]): 1621
]. If there is NAB with GERD, the authors consider adding a bedtime H2RA to twice a day PPI therapy. Several studies looking at various therapeutic regimens including single and double dose PPI therapy in combination with the H2RAs demonstrate a hierarchy of intragastric pH control outlined in Box 2 [
Hammod R
Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999; 13: 675-678
Ranitidine controls nocturnal acid breakthrough on omeprazole: a controlled study in normal subjects.
Gastroenterology. 1998; 115: 1335-1339
Hierarchy of intragastric pH control
PPI once a day
PPI plus H2 HS (OTC probably OK)*
PPI BID*
PPI BID plus H2 HS*
*These regimens have never been tested head to head in clinical trials.
In the rare patient with no symptoms or esophageal acid exposure during pH testing but continued gastric acid production the authors generally do not add a bedtime H2RA unless they have impaired lower esophageal sphincter mechanics or ineffective esophageal motility on manometry which places them at higher risk for nocturnal reflux. The role of high dose esomeprazole in the management of refractory patients awaits further study.
In a well designed study, Fackler et al showed that the beneficial effects of combined H2RA and PPI are maximal with the first dose after which significant differences in pH control are lost after 1 week of therapy as a result of development of H2RA tolerance [
Fackler W.K
Ours T.M
Vaezi M.F
Long-term effect of H2RA therapy on nocturnal acid breakthrough.
Gastroenterology. 2002; 122: 625-632
]. This is in contrast to Xue et al who demonstrated continued pH control in patients treated with PPI BID plus H2RA at bedtime (HS) for more than 28 days [
Bedtime H2 blockers improve nocturnal gastric acid control in GERD patients on PPIs.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2001; 15: 1351-1356
]. These differences suggest that tolerance to H2RA HS may occur but is not universal.
It is tempting to refer refractory patients for surgery if a patient fails optimized medical therapy. The clinician should be reminded that the best predictor of surgical success is complete response to medical therapy and the ideal candidate for fundoplication is the patient who has complete elimination of symptoms with medications but does not want to take them long term. Therefore, the small group of patients who continue to be "medically refractory" on maximal acid suppressive therapy should be counseled that surgery does not carry a guarantee of success.
As our understanding of the physiology of acid production, pathogenesis of heartburn, mechanism of action of acid suppressants, and their safety profiles have changed over time so has the choice of therapy. The practice of step-up approach to GERD therapy, favored in many algorithms may not be optimal. Several studies have concluded that the direct costs of initial PPI therapy are lower than those of initial therapy with H2RA, given the superior and prompt response achieved with the former class of drugs [
Fendrick A.M
on behalf of the Genval Workshop Group. An evidence based appraisal of reflux disease management —The Genval Workshop Report.
Gut. 1999; 44: S1-S16
Recently, Howden et al assessed and compared the effectiveness of management of heartburn symptoms in patients with GERD by sustained treatment with either an H2RA, or a PPI or with step up or step down regimens of PPI and H2RA. At the end of 20 weeks, the group treated with continuous PPI experienced less severe heartburn and more 24-hour heartburn free periods than the other 3 groups [
Howden C.W
Henning J.M
Management of heartburn in a large randomized community-based study: Comparison of four therapeutic strategies.
Am J Gastroenterol. 2001; 96: 1704-1710
]. This study compels us to reexamine the value of step up and step down schedules in the treatment of GERD.
Over the past thirty years several extraesophageal symptoms have been attributed to GERD. An association with GERD may occur in as many as 82% of patients with asthma, 50% of patients with unexplained chest pain and 78% of patients with chronic hoarseness. Several authors have documented a low prevalence of classic symptoms of GERD in these patients. Unfortunately, the majority of treatment trials involving patients with extraesophageal GERD are uncontrolled and fail to address long-term maintenance therapy. These patients are difficult to manage usually requiring higher dose PPI therapy for longer duration than those with typical GERD.
Field and Sutherland's review of 12 studies involving 326 subjects suggested that medical antireflux therapy improved asthma symptoms in 69%, reduced need for asthma medication in 62%, but had minimal or no effect on pulmonary function [
Field S.K
Sutherland L.R
Does medical antireflux therapy improve asthma in asthmatics with GERD? A critical review of the literature.
Chest. 1998; 114: 275-283
]. However most of these studies were done before the advent of PPIs (only 4 of 12 studies used a PPI). An uncontrolled prospective cohort study in 30 asthmatics demonstrated that many patients require more than 20 mg of omeprazole daily for optimal response and incremental response in asthma scores occurred over a three-month period [
Harding S.M
Guzzo M.R
Asthma and gastroesophageal reflux: acid suppression therapy improves asthma outcome.
]. A favorable response to therapy was seen in patients who presented with symptoms of regurgitation greater than once a week and those with demonstrable abnormal proximal esophageal acid exposure. Recently two well designed randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover studies evaluating PPI therapy in asthma patients with GERD demonstrated improvement in pulmonary function [
Levin T.R
Sperling R.M
McQuaid K.R
Omeprazole improves peak expiratory flow rate and quality of life in asthmatics in gastroesophageal reflux.
Kiljander T.O
Salomaa E.R
Hietanen E.K
Gastroesophageal reflux in asthmatics: a double blind, placebo-controlled crossover study with omeprazole.
Though the optimal therapeutic trial is yet to be determined, several studies have demonstrated the usefulness of an empiric trial of PPI therapy in determining the etiological significance of GERD in patients with unexplained chest pain. In the only randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment trial, Achem et al studied the effect of omeprazole 20 mg bid on 36 patients with unexplained chest pain who were proven to have GERD, for an 8 week period. Compared to placebo, omeprazole therapy markedly improved the fraction of days patients experienced chest pain, individual daily pain scores, and symptom severity scores [
Achem S
Kolts B
MacMath T
Dig Dis Sci. 1997; 42: 2138-2145
Several uncontrolled studies have suggested a beneficial role for medical antireflux therapy in the management of patients with chronic laryngitis. The type of therapy used and the dose and duration of treatment were variable among the studies. Subjective improvement in symptoms and improvement in follow-up laryngeal examinations were the most common outcome parameters followed in these different studies. Most of these studies did not identify factors that predict a favorable response, although two studies suggested that improvement in symptoms occurred more often in milder laryngeal abnormalities. Overall these studies emphasize the variability of response in patients with this manifestation, need for longer therapeutic trial with higher doses of PPIs especially in severe disease and rapid relapse of symptoms when therapy is discontinued. A recent study by El-Serag et al [
El-Serag H.B
Lansoprazole treatment of patients with chronic idiopathic laryngitis: A placebo controlled trial.
Am J Gastroenterol. 2001; 96: 979-983
] comparing lansoprazole 30 mg twice daily to placebo provides the only evidence from a placebo-controlled randomized study supporting the efficacy of gastric acid suppression in treating chronic laryngitis.
Aggressive antireflux therapy has resulted in resolution of GERD related chronic cough in many uncontrolled studies. In the only double blinded randomized study using response to therapy as the gold standard, Ours et al showed effectiveness of a trial of omeprazole 40 mg in the morning and at bedtime in patients with acid related cough [
Kavaru M.S
Schilz R.J
A prospective evaluation of esophageal testing and a double blind randomized study of omeprazole in a diagnostic and therapeutic algorithm for chronic cough.
]. This remission lasted up to 1 year, despite dose reduction of the drug down to 20 mg or 40 mg daily. In a recently published study Kiljander et al using omeprazole, 40 mg per day, a dose which may not be sufficient to inhibit acid reflux in all patients, showed relief in GERD related chronic cough after 8 weeks, an effect that continued despite cessation of the drug [
Salomaa E.R.M
Chronic cough and gastroesophageal reflux: a double blind placebo controlled study with omeprazole.
Eur Respir J. 2000; 16: 633-638
Suggested approach to the therapy of extraesophageal GERD
Therapeutic trials for this condition often require near complete acid suppression with a PPI twice daily. It is our practice to start empiric therapy with this dose given before breakfast and dinner for 2 to 3 months understanding that many may eventually require longer treatment trials to achieve optimal results. Patients who have > 50% improvement in symptoms to this trial are continued for an additional 4- to 8-week period. If complete symptom relief is not achieved, prolonged ambulatory pH monitoring (combined impedance/pH can be considered when available) while on therapy is indicated at this point to assess the adequacy of intragastric acid suppression and ensure elimination of distal and proximal esophageal acid exposure. If there is incomplete acid suppression, especially with nocturnal acid breakthrough, additional medical therapy such as addition of a H2RA at bedtime is given. Given the multifactorial nature of etiology for such atypical GERD symptoms, patients with low suspicion for GERD may benefit from a screening ambulatory pH test to confirm the existence of excessive acid reflux prior to an empiric trial of medication. Though the sensitivity and specificity of such testing are unclear, it is rare in our experience for extraesophageal symptoms in a patient with a totally normal pH test to respond to antireflux therapy. The role of esomeprazole in extraesophageal disease awaits study. Experience suggests that patients with extraesophageal GERD who do not respond to aggressive acid suppression, do not fair well with antireflux surgery.
Novel therapeutic targets for control of GERD
A different pharmacological option, which may well be of clinical relevance is the use of prokinetic or lower esophageal sphincter tone altering agents. Several pharmacological agents like baclofen, loxiglumide, morphine, and nitric acid synthetase inhibitors targeted at inhibiting transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxation (tLESR), a prerequisite for the development of acid reflux, are being evaluated. In one of many trials in humans using baclofen, the most potent and safest gamma aminobutyric acid type B agonist agent available, Zhang et al recently demonstrated inhibition of reflux episodes by inhibition of tLESR [
Rigda R
Control of TLOSRs and reflux by the GABAB agonist baclofen in patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease.
Gut. 2000; 50: 19-24
]. It has been proposed that control of tLESR may be of value in patients with mild disease, or in patients who continue to have mild breakthrough symptoms, especially regurgitation, on PPI therapy. There are some new agents currently under clinical investigation that may have stimulating effects on both the lower esophageal sphincter and the body of the esophagus. Those agents being considered for investigation in this regard include norcisapride, a metabolic product of cisapride with fewer cardiac adverse effects and tegaserod, a partial 5HT4 agonist which was recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of constipation predominant irritable bowel syndrome.
Targeting oxidative stress involved in the pathogenesis of reflux esophagitis seems to be a fascinating strategy. Oh et al recently presented evidence that an antioxidant substance (DA-9601) significantly attenuates the severity of esophageal inflammation in a rat model of esophagitis [
Oh T.Y
Ahn B.O
Oxidative stress is more important than acid in the pathogenesis of reflux esophagitis in rats.
Gut. 2001; 49: 364-371
]. They also demonstrated that DA 9601 was more effective in prevention of esophagitis in rats compared to H2 antagonists.
The last twenty years have seen an evolution of much improved strategies in the medical treatment of GERD. Current therapy is targeted at acid suppression, to deal with consequences of mucosal injury and afford resolution of symptoms. Given their modest efficacy, there is no longer much support for initial treatment with H2RAs. PPIs have been shown to provide the highest levels of symptom relief and esophageal healing, in addition to preventing relapse and complications. With this class of agents, the clinician is able to prescribe a drug that is as highly effective as surgery for the purpose intended [
Myrvold H.E
Continued (5 year) follow-up of a randomized clinical study comparing antireflux surgery and omeprazole in gastroesophageal reflux disease.
], without worrying about long term sequelae of acid suppression. It appears that patients with extraesophageal GERD must be treated with higher doses of pharmacologic therapy, principally with the PPIs, for longer periods of time to achieve complete relief of symptoms when compared to patients with heartburn and erosive esophagitis. There is still no clear consensus as to whether aggressive acid suppression alters the natural history of Barrett's esophagus. Based on their initial success, it appears that the next generation of evolving medical therapies will continue to play an important role in the management of GERD. The outcome from medical therapy is the standard against which the results of the novel endoscopy anti-reflux treatments will be measured.
rapid - Tricheenlight
The front desk lady was quick, professional, and personable. Monument health rapid city urgent care, jackson boulevard po box 860013 minneapolis, mn zip 55486 phone: Chad Storch Do Mph At Monument Health Rapid City Urgent Care Occupational Medicine Aerospace Medicine In Rapid City Sd This number is up nearly 50 percent from then. Urgent care […]
During this test, we will swab your nose and/or throat. The rapid covid test is also recommended for the screening of residents or healthcare. Antigens Testing Tib Pharmacy In 2021 Emergency Medical Newark Health Services Covid testing is available at many outlets near osage beach including urgent care centers, retail clinics, primary care offices, health […]
Rapid urgent care is unable to accept patients under 2 years of age. Of course they still are in network with my insurance so payment was easy. Rapid Urgent Care Slidell – Book Online – Urgent Care In Slidell La 70460 Solv I love this place and recommend it to everyone i know. Rapid urgent […]
Covid Rapid Testing Near Me Drive Thru
Other symptoms may include chills, repeated Get tested today at no cost. Rapid Covid-19 Testing Urgent Care Omaha Bellevue Ne Clinics Just visit our testing location to get started and we'll test you right in your vehicle. Covid rapid testing near me drive thru. Call ahead to your local pharmacy, healthcare provider, or insurance company […]
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity Brief Update - The Policy Circle
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity Brief Update
Thanks to the innovations of the last few decades, technology is reshaping everything: how we live in our communities, how we raise our families, how we grow our businesses and enterprises, and even how we interact with the government. In today's digital world, all sectors from healthcare to banking to private business to government are inundated with data.
As we embrace and rely more upon a data-driven society, it's important to understand the dangers associated with data and how to keep our data safe. At the heart of the issue of data privacy and data protection is individual freedom. America is built on the principle that no one individual or group has the right to control another individual. Today's computing power enables companies (and governments) to intercept, layer, and analyze seemingly disparate data to draw conclusions about individuals. All digital users should understand what data privacy and protection mean and know how much data is worth; being informed allows individuals to be in control of what is shared or not shared. Individual responsibility, control, and competition amongst platforms would ensure both privacy and protection.
Ways to Get Involved/What You Can Do?
The U.S. needs to keep pace with technological advances to be at the forefront of global digital innovations and protect national security. At the same time, citizens cannot sit idly by and let the government or the private sector run the show. The combination of educated citizens and proper oversight mechanisms in line with democratic values will protect the rights of individuals from excessive government or private sector control and empower individuals to take responsibility for their data.
The purpose of this brief is to prompt you to think about your own data. How much do you value your privacy? How do you define privacy? It is a national issue, a state issue and a local issue because your schools and your cities are all targets for cyberattacks. You can:
Find out what your local and state government institutions are doing to protect your data.
Find how your health data is protected and shared.
Look at your data protection and practices at home and at work.
Review the list of legislation presented above and invite your representatives in Congress to discuss their position on the topic with your Policy Circle. By voicing your interest, you draw their attention to the topic.
What is the role of government, business, and legislators in protecting privacy and connectivity? Kick off the New Year with inspiration and plan a Policy Circle conversation with The Policy Circle Mini Brief: Data Privacy and Cybersecurity to learn more.
Author: Stephen Cole ; Last update: 14 July , 2018 14:49:14
Everyone who became ill in Iowa and about a quarter of those who became sick in IL said they had eaten McDonald's salads in the days before symptoms appeared, according to the states' health departments. Iowa has identified 15 people who ate McDonald's salads in late June to early July prior to getting ill and IL has seen 90 cases of cyclosporiasis with a quarter of the infected people having eaten a McDonald's salad before getting ill.
Health officials in both IL and Iowa said that people who experienced similar symptoms after eating at McDonald's should contact a doctor for testing and possible treatment. About one quarter of the cases have been linked to McDonald's salads.
People can become infected by consuming food or water contaminated with feces (stool) that contains the parasite. "This summer there have been several clusters of Cyclospora illness associated with various foods that are commercially available", a statement from the Iowa Department of Public Health said.
Cyclospora is a parasite more commonly found in developing countries. Officials say McDonald's will re-supply restaurants with salads from other suppliers. Left untreated, the illness "may last for a few days to a month or longer", according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
It said these are routes where customers could transfer "readily" to other flights today, tomorrow or at the weekend. Customer service teams are working until 10pm to help with refunds, flight transfers or booking ferries.
It will be up to each union in each country to decide if they'll engage in industrial action or not if their demands aren't met. Ryanair has hit out over air traffic control (ATC) strikes once again, saying they proved particularly turbulent last month.
Nancy Sinatra Senior has died aged 101, it's been confirmed. "She was a blessing and the light of my life". Frank and Nancy met in 1934 at the New Jersey holiday resort of Long Branch when he was 19 and she was 17.
I have been in private practice for the past 12 years. My recent interests led me to complete a Graduation Certificate in Wellness Studies. I will help you work on a range of issues from living with physical and mental health issues, anxiety, depression, eating disorders and weight management, chronic health and disease including Chronic Fatigue, Fibromyalgia, fertility and pregnancy issues. I also assist organisations to focus on staff wellbeing.
(CIDRAP News)  A diagnosis of H5N1 avian influenza in a 3-year-old Egyptian girl yesterday marked Egypt's 27th case overall and the ninth this year, according to news services.
(CIDRAP News)  A doctor who treated an Indonesian boy who died of suspected H5N1 avian influenza is now being treated for suspicious symptoms himself, according to media reports today.
The doctor had treated a 15-year-old boy who died on Mar 25 at a hospital in Bandung. Reuters reported. Indonesian officials said 3 days ago that initial tests indicated the boy had the H5N1 virus.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (63) Apply Centers for Disease Control and Prevention filter
List of Long Term Addiction Treatment Programs In Spring Lake, North Carolina
List of Long Term Alcohol and Drug Rehab Programs In Spring Lake, North Carolina
Long Term Drug Rehab and Mental Health Care in Spring Lake, North Carolina
Even after completing a long-term drug drug addiction program in Spring Lake, you may still be required to continue with your rehabilitation. However, some people might begin wondering why they would be required to spend such an extensive period of time in such a facility.
In particular, they may assume that it would be more useful to finish short-term rehabilitation before enrolling in an intensive outpatient program. Still, even though some addicted individuals have found success through this form of rehabilitation, there are people who would benefit more by spending a number of months in an inpatient program. These include addicts with less robust recovery skills as well as those who may require additional help and support to overcome their drug addiction.
Finished drug and alcohol addiction treatment but relapse to their previous using habits
In many cases, long term drug treatment may also be accompanied by extended care and psychological rehabilitation. This is because the mental illnesses tend to co-occur with drug and alcohol addiction - by leading people to abuse drugs and alcohol or arising from drug and alcohol abuse - often require long term management and rehab.
Through a Spring Lake, NC. long-term facility, therefore, you will get all the care and support you need to conquer both your substance abuse and any co-occurring mental health disorder that you are suffering from.
If you opt for short-term rehab, you might find that you increasingly isolate yourself, neglect your physical health and wellness, and stop taking the medications that doctors recommended to you. This is why long-term drug and alcohol treatment makes sense for individuals with co-occurring conditions and who require more intensive care.
List of Long Term Alcohol and Drug Treatment Facilities Serving the Spring Lake, North Carolina Area:
(Serving the Spring Lake area, Myrover/Reese Fellowship Homes Inc is 14.6 miles from Spring Lake, NC)
(Serving the Spring Lake area, Myrover/Reese Fellowship Home Inc is 15.2 miles from Spring Lake, NC)
(Serving the Spring Lake area, Elmore Blackley Fellowship Home is 20.8 miles from Spring Lake, North Carolina)
Persons With Co-Occurring Mental And Substance Abuse Disorders, Veterans, Clients Referred From The Court/Judicial System (Other Than Dui/Dwi), Seniors Or Older Adults, Adult Men, Aftercare/continuing care, Drug or alcohol urine screening, Discharge Planning, Individual counseling offered, Do not use medication for opioid addiction, Substance abuse education
(Serving the Spring Lake area, Tri County Community Health is 29.4 miles from Spring Lake, North Carolina)
