Management Pocket Guide and the General Workplace Inspection Checklist , risks whilst carrying out tasks in the mining and quarrying industri , This workbook allows the user to assess the risks from the identified hazards from low to
17 Jul 2015 , Geotechnical risks at a mine or quarry are defined as those risks associated with ground movements , with the Mineral Resources (Sustainable Development) (Mineral Industries) , Hazard identification, assessing risk severity, the implementation of risk , 41 Checklist for a geotechnical risk assessment
This checklist is used to assist in conducting a risk assessment for hazardous substances and chemicals in the hairdressing, nail and beauty industry CLICK.
Development of effective job safety analysis - Department of Natural ,
Quarrying Safety and Health Act 1999 (MQSHA) or a Recognised Standard as , A job safety analysis (JSA) is one of several hazard identification and risk , This Guidance Note was developed considering the outcomes of the industry workshop 2 , The JSA should be used as a checklist when doing safety inspections or
Health and Safety information for the Quarrying sector , Quarrying in Ireland Guide to Quarries Regs Quarrying , of Tips and Stockpiles Inspection/Appraisal and Geotechnical assessment , Danger Hazardous Chemicals Sign on a Barrel
WHS Tools and Templates - Mining & Quarrying Occupational ,
This audit tool has been developed to assist mines and quarries to assess their , Principal Mining Hazard Risk Assessment Checklist for Roads & Other , assist and guide industry in the development of site specific traffic management plans
1 Jul 2013 , mining, quarrying, extractive industry business Competent , The level or hazard assigned following risk assessment (eg high, medium, low)
The use of explosives to break rock at a mine or quarry is a hazardous , hazard identification and checklist for clearing the , sequence Any risk assessment and subsequent hazard , rock is different from a production blast for aggregate
Safety Checklists | WCF Insurance - Workers Compensation Fund
View downloadable safety checklists to help you maintain a safe workplace environment , Hazard Assessment General Industry Safety Checklist, english
The following checklist can be used to identify and evaluate hazards in your , Are the brakes on each industrial truck capable of bringing the vehicle to a.
Risk analysis and working instructions for concrete industry Saimaa , The aim of the thesis was to estimate work hazards and to analyze work safety , and quarri ,, An example of such a system is Contractor Safety Checklist used in
Quarries - [enter summary here] , Inspection checklist (PDF) Your health and safety guide to Quarries , About the industry, Your legal duties, How to comply.
eg checklists and audits Fundamental Methods: eg Deviation Analysis, Hazard and Operability Studies, Energy Analysis, Failure Modes & Effects Analysis , QRA used in the offshore oil and gas industries, the transport of hazardous.
1 Jul 2009 , , 34 Forestry Part 35 Health Care and Industries with Biological Hazards Part 36 Mining , Part 2 Hazard Assessment, Elimination and Control , Injuries and ill health can ruin lives and affect an employer's business if production is lost, , A checklist serves as a memory cue, directing the person or team.
Health & Safety Management for Quarries , eg checklists and audits Fundamental Methods: eg Deviation Analysis, Hazard and Operability Studies, Energy Analysis, , Within Industry, three types of risk assessment can be distinguished:
Appendix 2 Checklists and forms , significant burden for the Western Australian Mining Industry Reducing the extent and severity , The risk management process of hazard identification, risk assessment, risk control and control evaluation.
Create expert-driven analysis and leverage historical knowledge to improve , It is more common in solids-based processes such as mining, during projects , stimulate discussion and evaluate the potential hazards posed by a process , Join best-in-class companies like BASF and evolve your risk management process
This handbook provides leading practice guidance on risk assessment and risk , Mining operations are often inherently hazardous and the sector is also capital.
Assessment Check List Record of Assessment , cover the common hazardous substances found in the industry and will simplify identification, assessment and.
Checklist for the Selection of Quarry Drill Rigs or , Victorian quarry industry was horrified to learn , a Job Safety Analysis is conducted at your , OHS Support in Quarries 01 Hazards In Drilling & Blasting Incidents Inside: Entanglement 2
, slab final placement lifter test machine and process Hazard spotting assessment , Managing major cement plant shutdown with 20 contracting companies ,, Quarries Regulation 40 Report: Checklist Quarries Regulation 40 Report.
Health and Safety Reps in the Quarrying Industry , - TUC Education
Activity: The appointment of safety reps in the quarry industry , Course evaluation , share experiences of hazards at work and the way that workers and their , writing a report, taking part in a meeting, writing a letter or inspection checklist
Mining vehicle seating evaluation 22 Ergonomics , personnel in the coal mining industry for their support, interest and ideas , Any manual handling activity constitutes a hazard for injury unless , the Risk Assessment Checklist on Page 24
Ergonomics - Solutions to Control Hazards - Occupational Safety ,
Safety and Health Topics | Ergonomics - Solutions to Control Hazards , Many industries have successfully implemented ergonomic solutions in their facilities as a way to , Ergonomic & Safety Assessment Guide for Machines and Equipment National Safety Council, (2007) Comprehensive checklist based on ANSI B11
SAFE QUARRY GUIDELINES TO THE SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELFARE AT WORK (QUARRIES) REGULATIONS , range of interests in the quarrying industry , 28 FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARDS , GEOTECHNICAL ASSESSMENT
For simple hazards a risk assessment can be a 'very straightforward process based on judgement requiring no , eg checklists and audits , In these industries QRA tends to deal with the avoidance of low probability events with serious.
Checklist: General Safety Practices, Hazards Management and Welfare Faciliti, 64 , The present findings in the stone quarrying sector represent one of his best such , need to assess risks beforehand in your workplace, put sensible and.
AGRICULTUR KBT 2O5 : AGRIBUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND TRADE - Chuo
AGRICULTUR KBT 2O5 * We aren't endorsed by this school
AGRICULTUR KBT 2O5 AGRIBUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND TRADE
NJEHIA, Dr. Osebe
AGRIBUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND TRADE Questions & Answers
AGRIBUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND TRADE Flashcards
AGRIBUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND TRADE Advice
AGRIBUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND TRADE Documents
qtp4y0x1-2 11.pdf
Volume 1 Module 2 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: DIGITAL IMAGING TASK NAME: Use Digital Imaging Scanner CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 9.6.5 Use digital imaging scanner EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: 1. Dental radiographic unit scanner 2. Phosphorus storage pla
qtp4y0x1-1 42.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP STORE AND DISCARD DISPOSABLE SHARPS VOLUME 1 MODULE 7 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST STORE AND DISCARD DISPOSABLE SHARPS Storing and discarding disposable sharps and turn-in procedures a. Place all disposable sharps into sharps c
qtp4y0x1-1 36.pdf
Volume 1 Module 5 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: MAINTAIN MATERIALS AND INSTRUMENTS IN THE DTR TASK NAME: Ensuring currency of dated items CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 7.3 Maintain DTR supply levels 7.3.1 Ensure currency of dated items EQUIPMENT RE
qtp4y0x1-1 38.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP MAINTAIN MATERIALS AND INSTRUMENTS IN THE DTR VOLUME 1 MODULE 5 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST MAINTAIN MATERIALS AND INSTRUMENTS IN THE DTR 1. Ensuring currency of dated items a. Identify location of expiration dates on sterile
qtp4y0x1-1 31.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP INSTRUMENT STERILIZATION VOLUME 1 MODULE 3 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST INSTRUMENT STERILIZATION 1. Decontaminate instruments manually a. Transport contaminated instruments in appropriate container to central processing receivi
qtp4y0x1-1 34.pdf
5. Ask your patient if they have had any changes in their health history and if they have dental pain 6. Observe patient response while asking questions by looking for signs of anxiety. Look for increased respiratory rate, sweating, shaking hands, etc. 7.
qtp4y0x1-2 6.pdf
Volume 2 Module 1 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: DENTAL RADIOLOGY FUNDAMENTALS TASK NAME: Locate and Identify Anatomical Landmarks CFETP/STS REFERENCE: 9.6.12 Locate and identify anatomical landmarks EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: Panoramic and/or full
qtp4y0x1-1 29.pdf
Volume 1 Module 3 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: INSTRUMENT STERILIZATION TASK NAME: Sterilization testing procedures 1-CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 1.5.5 Exercise safety practices during job performance 5.5.1 Types of sterilization equipment 5.5.2
qtp4y0x1-2 9.pdf
Volume 1 Module 2 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: DIGITAL IMAGING TASK NAME: Capture Digital Image CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 9.6.3 Capture digital image 9.6.4 Use digital imaging software 9.6.11 Archive images EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: 1. Dental radiog
qtp4y0x1-1 39.pdf
Volume 1 Module 6 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: STORE DANGEROUS/FLAMMABLE MATERIALS TASK NAME: Storing dangerous/flammable materials in the DTR CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 11.6.2.2 Storage of dangerous/flammable materials EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: 1. D
qtp4y0x1-2 8.pdf
Volume 2 Module 2 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: DIGITAL IMAGING TASK NAME: Adjust Timing Control CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 9.6.2 Adjust timing control EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: 1. Dental radiographic unit 2. Dental radiograph prescription TRAINING RE
qtp4y0x1-2 12.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP DIGITAL IMAGING VOLUME 2 MODULE 2 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST DIGITAL IMAGING 1. Adjust Timing Control a. Ensure unit master switch is on b. Adjust equipment IAW manufacturers instructions 2. Capture Digital Image a. Review ra
qtp4y0x1-1 43.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP Record of Training-VOLUME 1 TITLE MODULE 1 DENTAL EQUIPMENT USER MAINTENANCE Cleaning Amalgam Traps Cleaning Sterilizers Performing Daily Safety and Operational Check of Dental Unit Removing and Replacing the Dental Unit Lig
qtp4y0x1-2 1.pdf
QTP 4Y0X1-2 October 2014 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY Clinical Skills-Radiology Volume 2 381st Training Squadron 2931 Harney Road Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234
qtp4y0x1-1 27.pdf
e. Date of expiration when using date-related packaging e. Date sterilized when using event-related sterilization 27
qtp4y0x1-1 35.pdf
ATTACHMENT: Performance checklist.Dental Assistant Specialty QTP EVALUATE PATIENTS FOR CONTRAINDICATIONS VOLUME 1 MODULE 4 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST EVALUATE PATIENTS FOR CONTRAINDICATIONS Evaluate patients for contraindications to treatment a. Review pas
qtp4y0x1-1 32.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP INSTRUMENT STERILIZATION VOLUME 1 MODULE 3 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST INSTRUMENT STERILIZATION (continued) 5. Sterilization testing procedures a. Prepare test control indicator prior to placement b. Place the indicator in the
qtp4y0x1-1 28.pdf
Volume 1 Module 3 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: INSTRUMENT STERILIZATION TASK NAME: Perform sterilization procedures CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 1.5.5 Exercise safety practices during job performance 5.5.1 Types of sterilization equipment 5.5.2 P
qtp4y0x1-1 30.pdf
9. 10. 11. 12. 13. Record incubation results in sterilization log Notify infection control officer of any positive (non-sterile) readings Recall all instrument packs sterilized in suspect sterilizer since last negative reading Remove suspect sterilizer fr
qtp4y0x1-1 33.pdf
Volume 1 Module 4 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: EVALUATE PATIENTS FOR CONTRAINDICATIONS TASK NAME: Evaluate patients for contraindications to treatment CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 7.4.1 Review patient record 7.4.3 Receive patient 7.4.4.1 Confirm
qtp4y0x1-1 37.pdf
Volume 1 Module 5 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: MAINTAIN MATERIALS AND INSTRUMENTS IN THE DTR TASK NAME: Maintain DTR supply levels CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 7.3 Maintain DTR supply levels EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: Local supply request form TRAINING
qtp4y0x1-1 40.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP STORE DANGEROUS/FLAMMABLE MATERIALS VOLUME 1 MODULE 6 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST STORE DANGEROUS/FLAMMABLE MATERIALS Storing dangerous/flammable materials in the DTR a. Store flammable materials away from heat sources/open fl
qtp4y0x1-2 3.pdf
INTRODUCTION 1. Volume 2, Clinical Skills-Radiology, Qualification Training Package (QTP) contains modules on Dental Radiology fundamentals, digital imaging, and intraoral imaging techniques. This QTP is designed to enhance 5-skill level on-the-job traini
qtp4y0x1-2 4.pdf
Volume 2 Module 1 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: DENTAL RADIOLOGY FUNDAMENTALS TASK NAME: Exercise Radiation Safety CFETP/STS REFERENCE: 9.3 Exercise radiation safety EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: 1. 2. 3. 4. Lead apron with thyrocervical collar Prote
qtp4y0x1-1 41.pdf
Volume 1 Module 7 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: STORE AND DISCARD DISPOSABLE SHARPS TASK NAME: Storing and discarding disposable sharps and turn-in procedures CFETP/STS REFERENCES: 11.6.3 Turn in disposable items such as needles, blades, an
qtp4y0x1-2 10.pdf
11. Click on save icon (this archives the digital image automatically) 12. Under series description box, describe/label digital radiograph taken (ex. PA #30) 10
qtp4y0x1-2 7.pdf
Dental Assistant Specialty QTP DENTAL RADIOLOGY FUNDAMENTALS VOLUME 2 MODULE 1 SAT PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST DENTAL RADIOLOGY FUNDAMENTALS 1. Exercise Radiation Safety a. Inspect apron to ensure serviceability b. Identify process for unserviceable aprons c. S
qtp4y0x1-2 5.pdf
Volume 2 Module 1 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP SUBJECT AREA: DENTAL RADIOLOGY FUNDAMENTALS TASK NAME: Prepare Patients for Radiographs CFETP/STS REFERENCE: 9.5 Prepare patients for radiograph(s) EQUIPMENT REQUIRED: Lead apron with thyrocervical collar T
Surname 1 Name: Instructor: Course: Date: Over the years, analysts have argued that the only way to end terrorist groups is to cut the links they use to get funds that enable them to support their activities. One of the main challenges facing the world is
Running head: POLITICS AND ART 1 Politics and Art Name: Institutional Affiliation: Politics and Art Art should not be censored. On the contrary, it should be promoted. The reason is that art plays a significant role in passing a political message to leade
qtp4y0x1-1 44.pdf
DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY QTP VOLUME 1 TRAINING REFERENCE LIST Note: Always refer to current version of the references listed 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. CDC 4Y051A Volume 1, Dental Assistant Journeyman AFI 44-108, Infection Prevention and Control Program USAF Gui
qtp4y0x1-2 2.pdf
QTP 4Y0X1-2 DENTAL ASSISTANT SPECIALTY Volume 2 Clinical Skills-Radiology TABLE OF CONTENTS MODULE OBJECTIVE PAGES 1 Dental Radiology/Imaging Fundamentals 2 Digital Imaging 9-12 3 Intraoral Imaging Techniques 13-24 4-8 QTP Record of Training 25 Training R
Running head: HUM440 A01, Critical Thinking: Common Sense & Everyday Life HUM440 A01, Critical Thinking: Common Sense & Everyday Life Name Institution 1 HUM440 A01, Critical Thinking: Common Sense & Everyday Life 2 HUM440 A01, Critical Thinking: Common Se
policing and law enforcement.docx
Running head: POLICING AND LAW ENFORCEMENT Policing and Law Enforcement Name Institution 1 POLICING AND LAW ENFORCEMENT 2 Policing and Law Enforcement Research Topic Policing and law enforcements are professions considered by many people as unique. Indeed
Magnesium as an Alternative or Adjunct to Opioids for Migraine and Chronic Pain: A Review of the Clinical Effectiveness and Guidelines
PainSci » bibliography » Banerjee et al 2017
updated Dec 22, 2021
Banerjee S, Jones S. Magnesium as an Alternative or Adjunct to Opioids for Migraine and Chronic Pain: A Review of the Clinical Effectiveness and Guidelines. CADTH Rapid Response Reports . 2017 Apr. PubMed #29334449 ❐
Tags: nutrition, self-treatment, treatment
Four articles on PainSci cite Banerjee 2017: 1. The Complete Guide to Trigger Points & Myofascial Pain 2. Does Epsom Salt Work? 3. 35 Surprising Causes of Pain 4. Vitamins, Minerals & Supplements for Pain & Healing 
PainSci commentary on Banerjee 2017: ?This page is one of thousands in the PainScience.com bibliography. It is not a general article: it is focused on a single scientific paper, and it may provide only just enough context for the summary to make sense. Links to other papers and more general information are provided wherever possible.
This paper concluded in 2016 that “magnesium appears to have an analgesic effect.” Great! But don’t read the fine print if you want to hang on to that good feeling. Their own summary of findings doesn’t seem to back up the optimism. They clearly state that conclusions were “not possible” for migraine … that the evidence is conflicting for a rather exotic kind of chronic pain (complex regional pain syndrome) … and they mention only a single trial showing a benefit for back pain (with intravenous supplementation, no less, and for back pain complicated by neuropathy; see Yousef).
And that’s just all they wrote about the data. If there is enough evidence to justify “magnesium appears to have an analgesic effect,” it is not reported in this paper.
~ Paul Ingraham
Common issues and characteristics relevant to this paper: ?Scientific papers have many common characteristics, flaws, and limitations, and many of these are rarely or never acknowledged in the paper itself, or even by other reviewers. I have reviewed thousands of papers, and described many of these issues literally hundreds of times. Eventually I got sick of repeating myself, and so now I just refer to a list common characteristics, especially flaws. Not every single one of them applies perfectly to every paper, but if something is listed here, it is relevant in some way. Note that in the case of reviews, the issue may apply to the science being reviewed, and not the review itself.
Exaggeration in the direction of a more interesting result (e.g. speculating about causality in data that only shows correlation).
Garbage in, garbage out — not enough good quality data to meaningfully review/analyze.
original abstract †Abstracts here may not perfectly match originals, for a variety of technical and practical reasons. Some abstacts are truncated for my purposes here, if they are particularly long-winded and unhelpful. I occasionally add clarifying notes. And I make some minor corrections.
Migraine and chronic pain are common disorders and can result in considerable disability. According to the World Health Organization, migraine is ranked 19(th) with respect to health disorders causing life lived with disability. The lifetime prevalence of migraine in Canada has been estimated to be 24% in women and 9% in men. Chronic pain is defined as pain that persists for greater than three months. Chronic pain is associated with a variety of disorders such as chronic low back pain, chronic complex regional pain syndrome (CPRS), fibromyalgia and neuropathy. Estimates of the prevalence of chronic pain in Canada vary between 16% and 40%. The variability may be due to differences in the definitions used for chronic pain, sample populations surveyed, and the survey methodologies.
Treatment for migraine can be divided into two broad categories: acute treatment for migraine attacks and prophylactic treatment to reduce the frequency of migraine attacks. Treatment of any type of pain is complex and the best options for treatment still remain unresolved. Increasingly, opioids are being used for the alleviation of pain. However, long term use of opioids can lead to addiction, development of tolerance, and resistance of chronic pain to opioid analgesia. In addition, it is associated with side-effects such as chronic constipation, dizziness, consciousness disorders, and cognitive impairment. Hence other modalities for managing pain are needed. Magnesium plays an important physiological role and affects a number of processes. It is the fourth most abundant cation in the body, and is involved in regulation of protein synthesis, energy production, cell growth, and RNA and DNA synthesis. Magnesium modulates ion transport by pumps, carriers and channels and can impact signal transduction. Magnesium acts as a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist and blocks the NMDA receptor, resulting in its analgesic effect. Activation of the NMDA receptor plays a role in central sensitization and is associated with spontaneous pain and increased reaction to peripheral stimuli. As magnesium appears to have an analgesic effect there is growing interest in investigating whether magnesium can be used as an alternative or as an adjunct to opioids for controlling pain.
The purpose of this report is to review the clinical effectiveness of magnesium as an analgesic for the treatment of adult patients with migraine or chronic pain. Additionally, this report aims to review evidence-based guidelines regarding the use of magnesium as an analgesic for the treatment of adult patients with migraine or chronic pain.
This page is part of the PainScience BIBLIOGRAPHY, which contains plain language summaries of thousands of scientific papers & others sources. It’s like a highly specialized blog. A few highlights:
No long-term effects after a three-week open-label placebo treatment for chronic low back pain: a three-year follow-up of a randomized controlled trial. Kleine-Borgmann 2022 Pain .
Exercise and education versus saline injections for knee osteoarthritis: a randomised controlled equivalence trial. Bandak 2022 Ann Rheum Dis .
Association of Lumbar MRI Findings with Current and Future Back Pain in a Population-based Cohort Study. Kasch 2022 Spine (Phila Pa 1976) .
A double-blinded randomised controlled study of the value of sequential intravenous and oral magnesium therapy in patients with chronic low back pain with a neuropathic component. Yousef 2013 Anaesthesia .
Is Neck Posture Subgroup in Late Adolescence a Risk Factor for Persistent Neck Pain in Young Adults? A Prospective Study. Richards 2021 Phys Ther .
14 Oct, 2012 Last updated: 18 Dec, 2015
First published in the Shepparton News 8 March 2012.
This week, news emerged that a staggering 95 per cent of Australians don't know how to drink alcohol within safe limits. Up to half of the public who were surveyed by the Centre for Alcohol Policy Research couldn't even hazard a guess.
The NHMRC's Australian Guidelines to Reduce Health Risks from Drinking Alcohol have been publicly available for three years, but levels of awareness about what constitutes safe drinking are very low.
To ensure you're not damaging your health, they recommend no more than two standard drinks a day for healthy adults over your lifetime, and no more than four drinks per occasion.
This research highlights an understandable gap in public knowledge about the guidelines. How do you know how many standard drinks you've had?
Most cans, bottles and glasses of alcohol aren't neatly packaged as one standard drink. They're 0.7 or 1.4 or 2.2 standard drinks. It's just not realistic to keep a little notepad tally every time you're at the pub, let alone a mental tally.
However, preventing the short and long term problems alcohol can cause doesn't have to be complex, it's just a matter of knowing these limits and exercising a bit of willpower to stick with them. Try ordering light beer. Have a glass of water between drinks. Know your own mental state, and if you're feeling tipsy, slow down. Drink at your own pace, rather than keeping up with each round of drinks.
The Guidelines are clear and based on science, but we really need an education campaign to raise awareness of the dangers of alcohol, and even more importantly health advisory labels on alcohol, as a reminder to help us make better choices for our health.
Barcelona, 17 October, 2022.- Mitochondria are cellular organelles that generate most of the energy needed to activate the biochemical reactions of a cell. They produce 90% of the energy our body needs to function.
Mitochondria, unlike other cell organelles, have their own DNA (mtDNA) of a mere 16,569 base pairs encoding for vestigial functions of what once used to be a free-living organism. mtDNA is transmitted from a mother to her children and is used to establish maternal family ties. However, more importantly, many germline or somatic DNA mutations in the mitochondrial genome are associated with diverse human diseases and aging.
Investigating the mitochondrial DNA is challenging given the shortcomings of the current analytical methods, that require pre-amplification by long-range PCR which adds sequence errors and bias, and the limitations of short-read sequencing. Further complexity is added by the presence of NUMTs (sequences of the nuclear genome that are similar to mitochondrial DNA sequences) which confound mitochondrial sequence calls. Long-read whole genome sequencing which could overcome limitations of short-read sequencing methods would be prohibitively expensive for the purpose of mtDNA heteroplasmy detection and does not provide control to recover of the full mtDNA length.
To overcome such limitations, researchers from the Centro Nacional de Análisis Genómico (CNAG-CRG) and the Vall d’Hebron Research Institute (VHIR) have developed a new method to target the mtDNA selectively, and sequence each native mitochondrial DNA molecule directly and full length in a single read. The study has been published in the journal Nature Communications.
The method takes advantage of the mtDNA circularity that after Cas9 cleavage and linearization determines the beginning and the end of each DNA molecule. Cut-specific positions enable multiplexing of several samples in a single run using GridIon, a long-read nanopore sequencer. The sequencing data is analysed with a computationally efficient and accurate pipeline, which can be run on a laptop computer where the newly developed software baldur efficiently detects single nucleotide heteroplasmy to below 1%, physically determines phase, and can accurately disentangle complex deletions.
“Our workflow is a unique tool to achieve high and even coverage along the mitochondrial genome. Together with its analytical pipeline it is a promising tool for translational research to fill a void in current approaches to molecular diagnosis of mtDNA-related disorders. It provides leverage to mtDNA population studies, including the confounding biases related to NUMTs.” says Marta Gut, Head of the Sequencing Unit at the CNAG-CRG and co-corresponding author of the study.
“At the moment it is a method to be applied in the context of research. However, in the future it could be introduced as a general test for clinical diagnostics of patients suffering from mitochondrial diseases,” says Ivo Gut, leader of the Biomedical Genomics Group and Director of the CNAG-CRG and co-corresponding author of the study.
“I was satisfied by the sensitivity and specificity of the method to detect the single nucleotide variants and at the same time the ability of the precise characterization of mtDNA deletions. The accurate quantification of variants brings additional benefit. This allowed us to sum several different analytical procedures that were need until now in a single, simple workflow. The analytical workflow presented is an answer of a long-term challenge in the field of mtDNA diseases. The technique of single molecule sequencing of mitochondrial DNA represents an important methodological advance at both, the health care and research levels,” says Elena Garcia-Arumí, a co-author of the paper and Principal Investigator at the Research Group on Neuromuscular and Mitochondrial Pathology of the VHIR and Head of the Genetics Laboratory of the Vall Hebron University Hospital.
The study has involved researchers at the VHIR, the IRB Barcelona and from several groups at the CNAG-CRG including the Sequencing Unit, the Biomedical Genomics Group, the Bioinformatics Development and Statistical Genomics Team, the Production Bioinformatics Team, the Variant Calling and Analysis Team and the Human Genetics Team.
Funding
This research has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme through the EASI-Genomics project and the ERC Synergy project BCLLatlas. Institutional support was from the Instituto de Salud Carlos III and cofounded with European Regional Development Funds through the "Programa Operativo FEDER Plurirregional de España (POPE) 2014-2020" and the “Programa Operatiu FEDER de Catalunya 2014-2020”.
Thoracic Outlet Syndrome: A Chronic Pain - Hampton Roads Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine
Thoracic Outlet Syndrome (TOS) is an umbrella term for a rare and often misdiagnosed group of three medical conditions which affect the thoracic outlet – an area near the shoulder extending from collarbone to rib. The syndrome is caused by compression of the nerves and veins in that area, leading to pain and loss of sensation. Thoracic Outlet Syndrome is a chronic condition: it may last for years or become a lifelong issue without proper treatment.
The Mayo Clinicstates that some common causes of Thoracic Outlet Syndrome are injury in an automobile or motorcycle accident, repetitive stress injuries from sports or employment, pregnancy, and anatomical differences, like having an extra rib.
Symptoms of TOS mostly involve the shoulders and hands. Patients with the syndrome may experience muscle wasting in the hands, numbness and tingling in the arms and fingers, aches and pains in the shoulder area, arm pain and swelling, and weakening grip and arm strength. Left untreated, the condition can cause permanent nerve damage in the body.
According to the National Institutes of Health, treatment for the condition begins with physical therapy exercises to strengthen muscles in the chest, restore posture, and relieve compression of the brachial plexus by increasing the area that the affected nerves pass through. Treatment also often includes prescription-strength non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like naproxen and ibuprofen for pain relief, and medications to break up blood clots and prevent new clots from forming. If conservative measures fail, surgery may be suggested to release the trapped nerve or vein, or to remove the extra rib.
Making a diagnosis of Thoracic Outlet Syndrome can be particularly difficult, as symptoms are similar to a number of other disorders, such as fibromyalgia, or multiple sclerosis. If you are experiencing symptoms of TOS, contact us for an appointment. Our team of professionals have years of experience diagnosing and treating the most difficult of cases. Only a medical professional can test for Thoracic Outlet Syndrome and provide an accurate diagnosis. Hampton Roads Orthopaedics, Spine and Sports Medicine is available to help you get back to doing what you love.
Registered General Nurse - Nights Job in Southport Salary: Up to £29016.00 per annum - Sanctuary Health
772 jobs live
Job reference: HQ00086545
Sanctuary Health is a well-acclaimed health and social care recruitment agency in the UK, delivering excellent service to NHS and Private Trusts throughout the UK
The salary of this permanent role is £29,016 per annum.
Sanctuary Health has a permanent job vacancy for a registered nurse to work nights within a care home based in Southport.
- To be familiar, or become and remain familiar with the best principles of the provision of residential care for dependent people, as contained within "Home Life: a code of practice for residential care", the Department of Health publication "Homes Are For Living In", and any other publications which might be introduced from time to time and are recognised as being of persuasive authority, ensuring that own and others' practice within the Home is in accordance with the principles contained in such documents and to the highest possible standards.
- To be or become conversant with the Care Standards Act 2000, The Care Homes Regulations 2001, the Health and Social Care Act 2008 and any associated Regulations and Code of Practice, the National Minimum Standards for Older People, and the National professional Code of Conduct for care staff and employers, and any amendments to these, and to ensure that own practice and that within the home accord with the requirements of these.
- To be familiar, or become and remain familiar with the required contacts with and notifications to the Care Quality Commission (CQC), and ensure that your own and the home's practices accord with these, as far as is legally required, necessary and appropriate.
- To be aware of the importance of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971, the various Regulations, and any amendments which might arise, to follow the procedures for drug administration established by Dovehaven Care Homes, and ensure that own practices and recording are in accordance with these.
- To be aware of the needs of and benefits to self and others of continuing learning and training, and, in discussion with Senior staff, to ensure that all possible learning/training opportunities are taken.
- To participate in the assessment of Service User's needs, as directed by Senior Staff, to ensure that the home is suitable and continues to be able to provide for each Service User's needs, and to take part in reviews of current needs.
This registered nurse role is advertised by Zehnn Young; if you are interested in this position please click below to apply now.
@Colorado Registered Nurse : Cardiac Rehabilitation : Results 1-100
Colorado : Nursing Service Providers : Registered Nurse : Cardiac Rehabilitation
Chapman, Olga E. RN 8199 Welby Rd Apt 1405 Thornton CO 80229-5649 720-629-2526 163WC3500X 1083803449
Wolfe, Danielle RN 280 Exempla Cir Lafayette CO 80026-3370 303-861-3402 163WC3500X 1225415326
NURSE RN CARDIAC JOBS CO - Page 1
1 Registered Nurse Cardiac Medical ICU Englewood, United States The Critical Care Unit Registered Nurse demonstrates advanced knowledge, skills and understands the unique aspects of the population served in the care of his/her patients. * The delivery of care is ...... Apply Now>>
2 Cardiac ICU Travel Nurse RN - $57/hour Aurora, CO, USA Be a Nomad!Active Registered Nurse license in the specified state. RN degree from an accredited registered nurse program. BLS and ACLS required. One year of recent experience as an RN in the ...... Apply Now>>
3 Cardiac Cath Lab Pre-Op/PACU Registered Nurse Thornton, United States The Cardiac Cath Lab Pre-Op/PACU Registered Nurse provides patient care for Cardiovascular patients before and after their Cath Lab procedure. Supports non-invasive Cardiology testing as needed. Is ...... Apply Now>>
4 Registered Nurse Cardiac Care Aurora, United States The Registered Nurse (RN) - Cardiac Care Unit is responsible for the delivery of nursing care to the general medical/surgical populations utilizing the nursing process. Special populations include ...... Apply Now>>
5 Travel Nurse RN - Cardiac Cath Lab - $1,537 per week Castle Rock, Colorado, USA Cardiac Cath Lab - Discipline: RN - Start Date: 12/2/2019 - Duration: 13 weeks - 40 hours per week - Shift: 10 hours, days. Additional information: American Mobile Healthcare Job ID #1577994. Pay ...... Apply Now>>
6 Travel Nurse RN - Cardiac Cath Lab - $1,675 per week Castle Rock, Colorado, USA Cardiac Cath Lab - Discipline: RN - Start Date: 12/2/2019 - Duration: 13 weeks - 40 hours per week - Shift: 10 hours, days. Additional information: Advanced Job ID #87742968. Pay package is based on ...... Apply Now>>
7 RN Registered Nurse - Wound Care Denver, United States The Staff RN coordinates all aspects of patient care delivered in the clinic and by ancillary ... The Advanced Cardiac Center at P/SL is known as a major heart hospital, recognized several times ...... Apply Now>>
8 Cellular Therapeutics Registered Nurse (RN) Denver, United States Our RN's have the opportunity to work with a diversity of cases, providing a broad learning ... Cardiac Rehabilitation Certified by the American Association of Cardiac and Pulmonary ...... Apply Now>>
9 RN / REGISTERED NURSE / CARDIAC CATH LAB RN / CATH LAB NURSE Durango, United States CPR/BLS (Basic Life Support), State License-RN-Colorado, ACLS (Advance Cardiac Life Support) Physical Abilities: From 50-100lbs For the most prompt response, please APPLY ONLINE. Resumes may also be ...... Apply Now>>
10 RN Surgical Unit Englewood, United States The RN (Registered Nurse) General Surgery responsibilities include: * Demonstrates advanced ... Ability to recognize cardiac rhythms preferred Notice Our Company's recruiters are here to help ...... Apply Now>>
11 Cardiovascular Specialist - Cath Lab RN Thornton, United States The Cardiac Cath Lab Registered Nurse provides age appropriate care to his/her patients based on criteria that is age appropriate and is based on the physical, psychosocial, cultural, safety and ...... Apply Now>>
12 RN Cath Lab or IR CARE Float Pool Healthone Denver, United States Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) * Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) certifications required on hire. Experience * Minimum of at least two years of RN experience in critical care for Tier V ...... Apply Now>>
13 ICU Registered Nurse Lone Tree, United States Registered Nurse Department: Intensive Care Unit - ICU Shift: Full Time/Nights (Rotating Weekends ... Cardiac Procedures, Trauma, MI and Strokes. * Due to the unique patient population in the ICU ...... Apply Now>>
14 RN HealthONE Division CARE Float Pool Denver, United States R.E Pool RNs are required to work the following: Hours per Pay Period: Tier IV (General RN) : ... Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certification required at time of hire. * National Institute ...... Apply Now>>
15 Registered Nurse (RN) Operating Room Lone Tree, United States We're hiring top RN talent today. Apply online now. Why Choose Sky Ridge? • Rated # 1 in safety ... cardiac programs • Fast growing, acute-care facility with outstanding clinical outcomes • ...... Apply Now>>
16 Registered Nurse Progressive Care Unit Aurora, United States The Registered Nurse (RN) - Cardiac Care Unit is responsible for the delivery of nursing care to the general medical/surgical populations utilizing the nursing process. Special populations include ...... Apply Now>>
17 RN / REGISTERED NURSE / OR RN / PERIOPERATIVE RN / OR NURSE Aurora, United States CPR/BLS (Basic Life Support), State License-RN-Colorado, ACLS (Advance Cardiac Life Support) Physical Abilities: From 50-100lbs For the most prompt response, please APPLY ONLINE. Resumes may also be ...... Apply Now>>
18 Travel Nurse - ICU RN - Grand Junction, CO Grand Junction, United States CO Registered Nurse (RN) license. * Critical care nurse with minimum 3 years' experience * ICU & CVICU, will float to INT CU, Cardiac unit (Tele), Neuro unit I-beds, and Med/Surg units with ...... Apply Now>>
19 Travel Registered Nurse RN Progressive Care PCU - Vail Colorado Springs, CO, USA Travel Registered Nurse RN Progressive Care PCU vail, CO days/nights/weekends Job Description We ... monitor cardiac and other critical vital signs and detect any changes, thereby enabling ...... Apply Now>>
20 Registered Nurse / RN / Cardiac ICU / CVICU Colorado Springs, CO, USA CARDIAC ICU REGISTERED NURSE Colorado Springs, CO USA Purpose: Provides and directs safe, effective, and culturally-competent care for inpatient and outpatient adolescent through aging adult ...... Apply Now>>
21 RN / Cardiac Step Down (Nights) Colorado Springs, CO, USA Registered Nurse (RN) CardioVascular Thoracic PCU Colorado Springs, CO USA 1+ years of recent cardiac RN experience preferred. 1+ years of recent adult acute care experience will be considered... Apply Now>>
22 Travel Registered Nurse RN Progressive Care Unit PCU - Greeley Aurora, CO, USA Travel Registered Nurse RN Progressive Care Unit PCU greeley, CO 12 hour night shift positions ... monitor cardiac and other critical vital signs and detect any changes, thereby enabling ...... Apply Now>>
23 CVICU RN Cardiac Intensive Care Travel Nurse Pueblo, CO, USA Cardiac Intensive Care Unit RN - Nationwide Travel Nurse Assignments Are you looking for a new nursing job? Would you like to spend the season somewhere you've never been? Hospitals nationwide are ...... Apply Now>>
24 RN- Burn/Trauma Unit Dupont, United States Advanced Cardiac Life Support * Other information: Minimum Required Education: Graduate of an accredited Registered/Professional Nursing program if less than 3 years experience. Preferred: Bachelor ...... Apply Now>>
25 ICU Nurse / RN Colorado Springs, CO, USA ICU Nurse / RN Salary + Bonus + Full Benefits + Paid Relocation + Signing Bonus Multiple Positions ... Demonstrates knowledge of cardiac monitoring. Correctly identifies dysrhythmias and treats ...... Apply Now>>
26 Cardiovascular Registered Nurse Needed in Pueblo, CO - Relocation Assistance! Pueblo, United States Cardiac Care opening in Pueblo, Colorado. This and other rn jobs brought to you by NursingJobCafe.com Established Medical Center located in Pueblo, Colorado are currently actively looking to add a ...... Apply Now>>
27 6020 FLEX Staff RN Vail, United States The PCU is looking for a FLEX RN! Rns are paid year round but work for 6 months out of the year ... Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) accepted until expiration, at which time Trauma Nurse Core ...... Apply Now>>
28 Travel RN-Burn Intensive Care Unit Thornton, United States This and other rn jobs brought to you by NursingJobCafe.com Specialty : RN-Burn ICU-Travel ... cardiac critical care medicine jobs, neonatal icu nurse jobs... Apply Now>>
29 Travel RN-Intensive Critical Care Steamboat Springs, United States This and other rn jobs brought to you by NursingJobCafe.com Specialty : RN-ICU/CCU-Travel Locations ... cardiac critical care medicine jobs, neonatal icu nurse jobs... Apply Now>>
30 Registered Nurse (RN) Home Health - Guaranteed 40 Hours - Full Time Permanent Gunnison, United States Home Health RN needed for a full time, permanent position in Gunnison with competitive pay and ... Current ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) preferred through American Heart Association EDUCATION... Apply Now>>
31 RN Cath Lab ICU CVICU Castle Rock, United States May consider ICU RN w Cardiac experience / CVICU * Day shift position "Job seekers get 40% more interviews when using a recruiting agency" (CareerBuilder) If interested, CALL and EMAIL with your ...... Apply Now>>
32 Travel Cardiac Nurse - RN CVOR / CVICU / Cath Lab Aurora, CO, USA Travel Nurses Needed - Registered Nurse Cardiac ServicesNationwide Travel Nursing JobsCardio Vascular Intensive Care, Open Heart Surgery, Invasive Cardiac Catheterization Lab HCEN has numerous ...... Apply Now>>
33 Registered Nurse Colorado Springs, United States Knowledge of a wide range of cardiac and vascular disorders and conditions as appropriate and seen ... Registered nurse shall have successfully completed a BS or ASN degree in Nursing from a National ...... Apply Now>>
34 RN - Registered Nurse Englewood, United States Client in CO seeking SEASONAL TRAVEL - RN - CVICU - ICU CARDIAC (654) - 7PM - 7AM (RN) to work 19:00-07:00 CoreMedical Group has hundreds of exciting and rewarding travel assignments throughout the ...... Apply Now>>
35 RN/ Cath Lab Denver, United States Executive Director of Cardiac Services MUST HAVE Must have current Indiana RN license ACLS required within 12 months 30 minute call response time mandatory Candidate NEEDS Cath Lab experience Current ...... Apply Now>>
36 Locum Tenens CRNA Opportunity Outside Colorado Springs Colorado Springs, United States ... cardiac jobs, pediatric anesthesiologist jobs, crna locum tenens jobs, crna positions jobs, crna employment jobs, nurse anesthetist crna jobs, crna nurse jobs, certified registered nurse anesthetist ...... Apply Now>>
37 PCU RN Enjoy peace of mind knowing you can elect Day One Medical BenefitsDaily Range of Responsibilities of the PCU RN: * Basic cardiac rhythm monitoring techniques, interpretation, and treatment * Basic ...... Apply Now>>
38 Registered Nurse, Medical Oncology 6300 Edwards, United States Licensed as a Registered Nurse in the state of Colorado or from a valid compact state required ... Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) by American Heart Association preferred. * Education... Apply Now>>
39 Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists / CRNA - Ortho Denver, United States ... cardiac jobs, pediatric anesthesiologist jobs, crna locum tenens jobs, crna positions jobs, crna employment jobs, nurse anesthetist crna jobs, crna nurse jobs, certified registered nurse anesthetist ...... Apply Now>>
40 Registered Nurse Edwards, United States Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) * Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) About Vail Valley ... #rn #registerednursejobs #nurserecruitment #vvsc #vailvalleysurgerycenter... Apply Now>>
personal injury Archives - Page 4 of 7 - Ellis Law Corporation
"How much is my case really worth?" This is one of the most frequently asked questions posed by personal injury plaintiffs. In the state of California, there is no set formula used to quantify the amount of monetary compensation available to claimants through the courts. A competent personal injury attorney who has experience litigating a…
In a personal injury lawsuit, both parties have the same goal: proving the facts that support their case. If you are injured in an accident in California, it is crucial to take advantage of every piece of evidence that can support the key facts. When surveillance video is available, it may hold the key to…
Few personal injury claims are as challenging and medically complex as those involving a traumatic brain injury. Because TBIs are often associated with disabling injuries and psychological impairments, it's vital that negligence victims are properly compensated for all losses including future medical care costs (including ongoing physical therapy or occupational therapy), rehabilitation expenses, treatments, and…
When you are in pain and suffering after a serious accident caused by another party's negligence, winning a personal injury case can mean a world of difference. Successful litigation can provide critical financial relief to account for medical expenses, surgeries, medication costs, loss of income, physical therapy, disability, and other damages that have undermined the…
After suffering a workplace injury requiring hospitalization, medical treatment and resulting in lost wages, you may be wondering how to recoup your losses. Do you file a personal injury lawsuit or seek benefits through a worker's compensation claim? California workers' compensation California, like all states, has passed legislation to protect workers who are hurt or…
The California Department of Public Health issued penalties to 14 hospitals in January. Investigations had discovered various issues that have either caused, or were likely to cause serious harm or death to patients. The department assessed penalties where breaches of mandated hospital policies or procedures had resulted in patient harm. More than half the fines…
Everything You Need To Know About Ovarian Cancer Diagnosis - NDTV Doctor - Easy Ways to Lose WeightEasy Ways to Lose Weight
Home » Hormone Therapy » Everything You Need To Know About Ovarian Cancer Diagnosis – NDTV Doctor
Everything You Need To Know About Ovarian Cancer Diagnosis – NDTV Doctor
Ovarian cancer: Family history of ovarian cancer can increase your risk
Women have to deal with a complete set of gynaecological cancers unique to their biology. These include cancers of the female reproductive system namely the uterus, cervix and ovaries. Ovarian cancer is the 5th most common cause of cancer deaths in women globally. It also has the highest death rate among all gynaecological cancer. There are various risk factors for ovarian cancer, some of the important ones include family history, 65 years of age, early onset menstrual cycle, late menopause, infertility, obesity, women on hormone replacement therapy and those who have breast care or are above the age of 65 years.
Signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer are frequently absent or very subtle in the early stages. Hence, most women are diagnosed with cancer only at a later stage.
Ovarian cancer may lead to abdominal swellingPhoto Credit: iStock
1. CA-125 is a screening and monitoring test. It should be noted that CA-125 may also be elevated in cancers of pancreas, breast, bladder, lung and in benign conditions like menstruation, pregnancy, fibroids, ovarian cysts, pelvic inflammation and endometriosis. Levels of CA 125 are high in about 85% women with ovarian cancer. If the CA125 value is greater than 200 u/ml and 35 u/ml in premenopausal and postmenopausal women respectively, then the likelihood of the disease is unlikely. CA125 is usually combined with transvaginal sonography or rectovaginal pelvic examination for a more accurate diagnosis.
Also read:How Is Ovarian Cancer Diagnosed? Everything You Need To Know
2. ROMA index: Risk of ovarian malignancy algorithm
It is the most promising marker for ovarian cancer. The ROMA score can be used by a healthcare practitioner prior to surgery to help determine whether a lump in the pelvis (pelvic mass) is likely to be malignant or not. The test is not intended to be used for screening. The test assigns a risk value that is numerical basis the below parameters
A change in HE4 level of less than or equal to 25% is considered significant. Elevated HE4 levels are associated with ovarian cancer but are not disease-specific. It can also rise in healthy women with hypertension and non-cancerous gynaecological diseases.
ROMA is applied for women who meet the following criteria:
The ROMA assessment is to be interpreted in conjunction with clinical and radiological assessment.
3. CA-72.4: It is elevated in cancer of pancreas, stomach, gall bladder, colon, ovaries, cervix and endometrium. It is an independent marker for the therapeutic monitoring and follow up care of ovarian patients and in particular CA125 negative patients.
4 CEA: It is a non-specific marker which is increased in ovarian tumours, along with tumours of lung, breast, and liver.
Also read:Ovarian Cancer Is Deadly, But New Tests, Treatments Start To Emerge
5. Peritoneal wash and histopathological examination of ovarian cancer: Examination of fluid collected in abdominal cavity to look for tumour cells, histopathological examination of tumour mass and immunohistochemistry for staging and grading of tumour for appropriate therapy.
6. NGS for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC):
The syndrome is characterised by early onset cancers of breast, ovary and other organs like pancreas, prostate, melanomas. It is associated with over 2600 mutations in BRCA 1 and 2 genes. It is helpful in early detection and screening of family members of affected individuals, early clinical intervention, and benefits of certain specific treatment modalities. Pre and post-test genetic counselling are very important before and after BRCA analysis.
(Dr. Kirti Chadha isHistopathologist/Surgical Pathologist andSenior Vice President, Medical Affairs, Metropolis)
