Posted on 26 February 2021 8 April 2021 by Ariane Capdevielle
Interview with Pr. Thierry Passeron, Deputy Director of the OncoAge federation, leader of the research axis "Dermato-Oncology" (melanomas and skin ageing), University hospital of Nice.
"The first wave of the pandemic had a huge impact in our activity has most of our consultations were cancelled and we only kept the most severe cases in our hospitalization unit. We had to adapt and make teleconsultations. Although such teleconsulations can be useful for the follow-up of systemic treatment and it is not satisfactory for new patients that required a diagnosis or for the follow-up of naevi. This abrupt decrease in our clinical consulting activity had a major impact in term of prevention (late diagnosis of melanomas for example) and the limited possibilities of hospitalizations was deleterious for many patients as we are the only dermatological department in the area. Now, we have adapted our organization and we can almost normally see patients in consultations and we have less limitations for the hospitalization, although the situation remains sometimes in tension and there are delay for some patients to be hospitalized in our unit. For the clinical research we managed to continue following our patients in clinical trials. That was not easy and required here also a new organization but it was our priority as these patients are suffering from metastatic skin cancers or severe inflammatory skin diseases. Finally, our INSERM lab was completely shut down for several weeks. That was terrible for the ongoing researches. Since May we have reorganized the organization in the lab (less people coming at the same time, sanitary measures…) and we can almost work normally."
"We initially had to halt some projects. Thus, after concertation with all the people involved we decided what projects were our priority and focus on them. People and available resources were readdressed to those projects. Hopefully, this situation get improved and progressively we managed to continued halted projects."
"We rapidly saw that SARS-CoV-2 is giving a wide range of dermatological manifestations. We actively participate to the care of COVID-19 infected patient and open a dedicated dermatological consultation. We submit to the IRB a cohort study on chilblains. We worked together with infectious diseases specialists, pathologists, intensive care units, virologists and immunologits. Such a collaboration was very fruitful and exciting. The counterparts was the other projects that we had to put on hold."
"We described the clinical, biological and histological presentation of chilblains associated to COVID-19. We also managed to understand the mechansims of chilblains associated with SARS-CoV-2 and demonstrated that this is due to a type-I interferonopathy. Finally, we also found that the SARS-CoV-2 is also targeting the pericytes."
"We are actually assessing our chilblains cohort during the second wave. Interestingly we found that more than 60% of the patients had relapsed during this second wave. Many patients with relapses had new COVID-19 cases in their household (there were also some simultaneous familial cases of chilblains). No possible or proven COVID-19 infection was reported in the group who did not relapse. This study is actually submitted for publication."
7 Surprising Symptoms & Hidden Signs of Bipolar Disorder - NewsBreak
#Mental Disorder#Mood Disorder#Bipolar I Disorder#Psych Central
6 Surprising Physical Symptoms of Anxiety and Depression
Christine Saenz is a 48-year-old human resources manager in Houston, TX. I always knew I was different, but I had no idea why. By the time I was eight, I truly felt like something was wrong with me. I was always a moody kid, needed a lot of alone time, and was picked on by my cousins for being grouchy all the time.
New research has found that there is a common, overlapping environment in the gut bacteria of people living with mental illnesses like depression, bipolar disorder and anxiety. The research, published today in JAMA Psychiatry, found that people experiencing these illnesses are more likely to have gut biomes that are characterized...
Researchers have found that adherence to taking medications improved in people with bipolar disorder with the use of long-term injectable meds combined with psychosocial intervention. The research results from University Hospitals (UH) Cleveland Medical Center and Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) School of Medicine appear in the September 16, 2021...
therapist.say.what
Childhood OCD: Comparing and Contrasting Symptoms of 2 Other Disorders
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is an anxiety disorder that can often be mistaken for another disorder in children due to its symptoms. According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th Edition (DSM-V), a diagnosis of OCD requires the presence of obsessions and/or compulsions. Obsessions are recurrent and relentless thoughts, urges, or images that are considered intrusive and undesirable and produce significant anxiety or distress.
If your loved one lives with anxiety, you may not always know how to help — but you can do plenty to support them. Anxiety symptoms can cause the most distress for the person who experiences them. All the same, watching a loved one have a hard time with anxiety can prompt a different kind of pain, especially when you feel powerless to make a difference.
Don't sleep on signs of daytime sleepiness disorder
Members of Project Sleep are working to raise awareness about narcolepsy during World Narcolepsy Day on Sept. 22. "Due to low awareness and inaccurate Hollywood portrayals, the majority of people currently living with narcolepsy are undiagnosed or misdiagnosed with other conditions," Julie Flygare, JD, president and CEO, Project Sleep, said. "This is why Project Sleep is proud to partner with advocates and organizations on World Narcolepsy Day to empower individuals to learn more, seek help, and know they are not alone."
Jonathan Foiles, inelegant as it sounds, is an activist therapist. That's not an official title — he's a Hyde Park psychotherapist and lecturer at University of Chicago Crown Family School of Social Work, Policy and Practice. But activist therapist works, too. For several years, across a pair of books and several articles for Slate and Psychology Today, he's been advocating for a seemingly ...
Did you know that humans are 60% water? Almost every function in our body requires water to survive, yet the majority of us don't drink enough of it. Being dehydrated can have a number of effects on the body. There are some more commonly known signs of dehydration, like decreased urinary output, but it can manifest in other parts of the body that you may not expect.
For the majority of men, hair is a sign of masculinity. Thus for many men, losing hair is like losing their manhood. All men enjoy when hair does start sprouting during their teenage years but it is not same in case of all men. There are some men who are unable to get beard or moustache even after reaching teenage. Thus for such boys or men facial hair transplant is a great option.
First of all your donor area of head and face will be examined. Then the design of the beard will be decided. Your doctor will discuss about the design and the density of beard you are looking for. This discussion will be done in detail and final plan will be made according to your acceptance. You may be told to undergo some blood tests and physical checks so as to ensure that your health is good.
For beard transplant following two techniques can be used:
The area where the beard has to be grown is segregated first. This makes the area clear for doctor to work within. This makes their activity easier and helps to get results required for a more natural looking beard. In the next step, the hair grafts are taken from the back or side of your head. They are transplanted into chin and cheeks. Usually the facial hair transplant procedure is done using the follicular unit extraction methods. Thus there is no scars, no bleeding and moreover the recovery is very fast. However, nowadays direct hair transplant technique is much used for beard transplant as it is the most advanced hair transplant method.
Direct hair transplantation is the modification of follicular unit extraction technique. In this technique the follicular unit grafts are implanted as soon as they are harvested. It is most advanced technique used for hair transplant. It has a number of merits as it is scarless, painless and provides 100% results when done by an experienced surgeon.
GCRF Steering Group - Research, University of York
A University Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Steering Group has been established, chaired by the PVC for Research, and with cross-faculty membership, including senior staff involved in RCUK Committees.
The Steering Group has been formed to ensure that the University maximises the opportunities presented by the new government investment in the GCRF.
Prof M. Ruth - Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research)
Prof S. Thompson - Associate Dean (Research), Sciences
Prof R. Ogden - Associate Dean (Research), Arts & Humanities
Prof Y. Birks - Associate Dean (Research), Social Sciences
Prof K. Bloor - Health & Wellbeing
Dr M. Jenner - Culture & Communication
Dr R. Friend - Risk, evidence and decision making
Prof S. McQueen-Mason - Biology
Prof J. Grugel - Politics
Prof M. Thomas - Director of YESI
Dr H. Altink - History
Dr S. West - Director of Stockholm Environment Institute
Prof K. Pickett - Health Sciences
Prof P. Revill - CHE
Dr Rodrigo Moreno-Serra - CHE
S. Perry - External Relations
J.Gilmartin - Research and Enterprise
E. Montgomery - Research and Enterprise
P Wiles - Research and Enterprise
E. Joyner - Office of Philanthropic Partnerships and Alumni
E. Witcomb - Global Engagement Office
H. Wells - Research and Enterprise
To coordinate institutional activity and advise University Research Committee (and where appropriate other University entities) on all matters relating to the UK Global Challenges Research Fund* (GCRF) to support the development of ongoing University research strategy and to support the Vice-Chancellor, Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the UEB and Pro-Vice-Chancellor in driving research strategy forward.
To identify priority research areas for the University to champion and promote, to increase the likelihood of success via future and current GCRF funding streams.
To ensure the University International Committee is regularly updated on GCRF activity and that the GCRF is properly recognised in the new University International Strategy.
To agree internal allocation processes for any GCRF institutional priming awards and oversee robust and transparent allocation.
To agree internal selection processes required for GCRF funding opportunities and oversee robust and transparent selection. Where required coopting the required discipline specific background knowledge to selection panels.
To support the communication and visibility of the University of York's research strengths eligible for funding from the GCRF.
To advise the UEB and Planning Committee on the selective distribution of resources within the University in order to ensure appropriate alignment of resource allocation for GCRF research activity.
To ensure that the University's strategic geographic focus internationally and partnership development supports GCRF activity, and that the University maximises the opportunity presented by existing relevant partnerships to benefit GCRF activity.
To direct the University in its engagement with key external stakeholders (including international stakeholders) relating to GCRF relevant research, including business, industry, the government and funding agencies.
To receive regular updates on research activities relevant to the GCRF where new opportunities may be pursued. Ongoing review of the Institution's GCRF research portfolio.
To gather and assimilate information from external sources about the latest developments for the GCRF.
To monitor and influence the development of Global Challenges research policy and strategy of key national and international agencies in the interests of the University (in particular RCUK).
* As outlined in 'The Allocation of Science and Research Funding 2016/17 to 2019/20' - March 2016, Department for Business Innovation & Skills
Workshop on Algorithmic Research in Midsouthwest (Fall 1992 - Spring 1993)
This Ruth Kirschstein NRSA training Program proposes to take primarily surgeons and other critical care medicine physicians during the second or third year of their general residency programs, and expose them to two, three and even four years of mentored research in inflammation biology with highly productive basic science mentors focused on inflammation?related topics. Four training positions are requested. The overall research program will focus on mastery of molecular biology, functional genomics and gene regulation, as it applies broadly to inflammation research. Although the bulk of the training program will be in the laboratory of an experienced research mentor, trainees will be expected to participate in didactic experiences that complement their research experience. Select trainees will have the opportunity to complete a Ph.D. program in the Graduate School in three to four years. Other trainees can participate in graduate certificate programs which are formal collections of courses that together form a coherent program of study offered through an academic unit. This training program takes advantage of the unique strengths of the College of Medicine in the expanding field of functional genomics and molecular biology, as well as the existing collaborations between basic scientists and clinicians committed to the training of future clinical academicians. The interface between molecular biology and inflammation research will be targeted to trauma, sepsis syndromes, ischemia/reperfusion injury, vascular injury, delayed wound healing and the burn wound. The faculty will be drawn from funded basic and clinical scientists in the Surgery, Medicine, Pathology, Aging and Geriatric Research and Molecular Genetics and Microbiology Departments, who will serve as research mentors to the trainees. Clinical mentors from the Surgery, Medicine and Pathology Departments will interact with the trainees and the research faculty to assure that the trainees are being exposed to clinically?important issues in inflammation research. Overall direction of the program will rest with the Program Director and an Executive Committee. Candidates for the fellowship are recruited nationally and from the University of Florida College of Medicine (Gainesville, Jacksonville). Successful applicants with the Executive Committee will identify a research and clinical mentor who will help formulate a formal training program and periodic review of the trainee?s progress. Furthermore, trainees are expected to participate in basic science seminars in the Institute on Aging, Emerging Pathogens Institute and Genetics Institute, and in their own basic science departments, as well as laboratory research meetings. They will also be expected to attend clinical seminars, including Surgery and Critical Care Medicine Grand Rounds and the Department of Surgery Academic Research Conference. Based on our past experiences, it is anticipated that successful graduates of this training program will possess sufficient research skills to successfully compete for transitional funding in inflammation research and become leaders in academic surgery.
Clinician-scientists play an essential role in the application of new technologies to the clinic. We propose that didactic training and a 2-4 year immersion in the laboratory of a successful basic scientist with expertise in molecular biology will provide a sound foundation for a career as a physician-scientist involved in translational research in inflammation biology, relevant to trauma, sepsis and burns. The successful trainee will develop expertise in functional genomics, molecular genetics and molecular biology to help translate the current genomic revolution to improved clinical practice, and will be prepared to serve as a national leader in surgical/clinical academics.
New Treatments for Breast Cancer | The START Center for Cancer Care | a mySA.com blog
New Ovarian Cancer Drug Tested In San Antonio, TX →
Posted on 10/27/2009 by Hannah Little	| E-mail| PrintOctober marked Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Recognizing this month creates awareness about the disease that is the second leading cause of cancer death in US women. It also brings about questions of the progress being made to fight and cure this disease. Currently, there are many new drugs under investigation that may fight breast cancer. Right here in San Antonio, The START Center for Cancer Care is participating in a global clinical study to evaluate potential targeted treatment for an aggressive form of breast cancer.
The START Center is participating in the CLEOPATRA study, a Phase III global clinical research study, to determine if the investigational medicine, pertuzumab — when given with a commonly used targeted cancer treatment, Herceptin, and chemotherapy — is safe and effective, compared to the standard treatment currently used. The START Center is one of 80 institutions across the country participating in this new trial.
"Research into new treatments is vital to continue the progress being made against this deadly disease," said Dr. Gladys Rodriguez, a medical oncologist with The START Center. "The CLEOPATRA study will tell us more about pertuzumab's potential role in treating women in the future with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer."
Breast cancer is the uncontrolled growth of cancerous cells that start in breast tissue. Breast cancer can be either HER2-postive or HER2-negative, based on genetic characteristics of the cancer. These two types may have different outcomes.
Women with HER2-positive breast cancer have tumors that tend to grow and spread more quickly than tumors that are not HER2-positive and have a greater likelihood of recurrence.
Approximately 15 to 30 percent of breast cancers are HER2-positive. In HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, the disease has spread to other parts of the body, most commonly to the lungs, bones, liver and brain.
At this stage of the disease, finding a cure is an unlikely outcome for women with metastatic breast cancer. The current goals of treatment include symptom relief, improved quality of life, increasing the amount of time women with metastatic breast cancer live (overall survival), and increasing the amount of time women with metastatic breast cancer live without the cancer worsening (progression free survival).
Dr. Rodriguez looks forward to changing the odds for women with HER2-positive breast cancer. "We're hoping that, indeed, we can prove the combination is better than Herceptin alone," added Dr. Rodriguez. "And, therefore, have a new option for patients with metastatic breast cancer."
| E-mail| Print	This entry was posted in Cancer, Medical and tagged breast, cancer, Dr. Rodriguez, The START Center for Cancer Care. Bookmark the permalink.	New Ovarian Cancer Drug Tested In San Antonio, TX →
Consumer Update: Avoiding Drug Interactions
In this Consumer Update video from the FDA, Shiew-Mei Huang, Ph.D., Deputy Director of FDA's Office of Clinical Pharmacology, provides tips on how to avoid harmful drug interactions.
This detailed article from the FDA offers helpful information on drug reactions and interactions, information on reading drug labels, questions to ask your doctor and more.
This article from the FDA explains why grapefruit juice and medicine aren't always a good mix and gives examples of medicines that can be affected.
This site, a service of the National Library of Medicine's MedlinePlus, allows you to learn about your prescription drugs and over-the-counter medicines (including side effects, dosage and special precautions) and browse dietary supplements and herbal remedies to learn about their effectiveness, usual dosage, and drug interactions.
The National Library of Medicine's Drug Information Portal
The National Library of Medicine's Drug Information Portal gives users a gateway to selected information on 59,030 drugs from the U.S. National Library of Medicine and other key U.S. Government agencies. Drug information is searchable by drug name or category.
National Library of Medicine's Daily Med
Have you misplaced the information that came with your prescription? No problem. DailyMed, the official provider of FDA label information (package inserts), allows you look up and download resources of medication content and labeling found in medication package inserts.
Big Data doesn't need to be big, or daunting | Financial IT
Thursday 28 October 2021 / 02:08
Big Data doesn't need to be big, or daunting
Dr Nicolai Baldin, CEO & Founder at Synthesized
28.02.2020 12:00 pm
Collecting and collating customer information in order to create new, or enhanced products and services is a strategy as old as business itself, but the process involved has always been a huge time and resource drain for companies.
Yet in the digital era we now live in, companies are creating and handling more data than ever before. They are awash with it, to the point where many firms even struggle to identify what data is mission-critical. Digital transformation projects have put data at the centre of every organisation, with businesses estimated to have spent nearly $1.2 trillion globally to digitise their operations to fit the ever-expanding digital economy.
With such transformations underway across huge swathes of businesses, they do still face two, quite fundamental issues around "big data".
Firstly, many companies simply overlook the hidden costs behind data such as the time and resources required. For example, for those involved in data science, it is estimated that 80% of their work is solely focused on the acquisition and preparation of data. This leaves them with just 20% capacity to focus on actual data analysis, which can provide crucial insights to propel a business forward.
Secondly, a significant issue is also how to actually access and share data to make it truly useful for commercial purposes, especially at a time when data is now seen as a competitive advantage for companies. For example, it is estimated that up to 60% of all data within an enterprise is unused.
Issues around how data can be safely shared are now paramount. In fact, businesses have never faced more complex regulatory requirements as they do now in regards to how data should be shared. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), introduced in 2018 into the European Union to impose stiffer data protection regulations and require businesses to obtain consent in certain situations in order to process data.
Making this regulatory environment even more complex is that individual countries also have their own data protection laws. Germany has the Federal Data Protection Act (FDPA) which sets even stricter requirements for processing personal data than GDPR. Meanwhile, France has revised its Data Protection Act to impose stricter rules concerning biometric information collection. In Italy, the country is implementing more rigorous criminal sanctions around the unlawful processing of personal data.
The list goes on and on of countries seeking to deal with the issue of how data is collected and handled, with an eye, overall, on ultimately protecting personal, consumer data as much as possible.
With such hidden costs and regulatory requirements placed on businesses, big data would appear to be quite big, and quite daunting.
Yet technology is now disrupting (for the better) these central issues. Thanks to artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technologies huge advances are being made in how businesses can analyse data in a much more cost-effective and efficient manner, while also ensuring regulatory compliance.
These technologies have helped to create synthesized data, which is able to mimic original data, without any of the data protection headaches. How is such accurate data created? An ML engine generates synthetic data sets by learning and reinforcing the structure of information found in original data. It is able to move beyond surface statistics to capture and reproduce the complex multi-dimensional patterns underlying realistic data sets. Unlike anonymisation and encryption techniques, this approach enables any company to share better quality information in a format useful for machine learning and analytics, without, crucially, disclosing any information about individual data points.
You might ask how close to original data is synthetic data? Research from MIT found that synthesized data can give the same results as real, original data. Synthesized data also completely takes away the risk of non-compliance with data regulations such as GDPR. Finally, to top it off, the ML technology is so powerful it can generate this data in minutes and break the siloes associated with data completely, thus breaking those hidden costs associated with big data.
It can be hard to know where to start in trying to tackle the challenge provided by big data. Yet synthesized data is a real, viable approach which takes away many of the risks associated with collection and handling of huge amounts of data. The benefits of this approach are now too hard to ignore - knowledge and insights can be unlocked without jeopardising personal data.
Early, Accurate Diagnosis Of Alzheimer's Is Key To Providing Best Treatment Outcomes | Life Healthcare
Life Healthcare supports World Alzheimer's Day to increase awareness
Life Healthcare, one of South Africa's leading hospital groups and private mental health service providers encourages education and understanding of Alzheimer's disease this World Alzheimer's Day (21 September). Early and accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's can delay disease progression.
Over 44 million people suffer from Alzheimer's disease worldwide, with a new case being diagnosed every four seconds. Alzheimer's disease is an irreversible, progressive brain disorder that slowly destroys memory and thinking skills and eventually the ability to carry out the simplest tasks. In most people with Alzheimer's, symptoms first appear in their mid-sixties.
"Patients affected by ranging severities of Alzheimer's disease may have affected thought and action processing abilities. This impedes their daily lives as simple tasks become more challenging to perform," explains Dr. Ryan Fuller, a psychogeriatrician at Life New Kensington Clinic.
Early symptoms of dementia vary, however, there are a few indicators of early onset dementia that a patients loved ones can look for. "In the early stages of dementia, patients may experience short term memory impairment associated with word and direction finding problems. In addition, the patient may ask questions repetitively and have difficulty managing tasks that are familiar to them," explains Dr. Fuller.
Alzheimer's disease affects the medial temporal lobes on the sides of the brain that control short-term memory and speech. This causes the attachments between the neurons to deteriorate and die. This cell death is associated with the decline in cognition and memory experienced by patients.
The most significant risk of Alzheimer's disease is advancing age, but it should not be considered a common occurrence once a person has reached a certain age. "Alzheimer's disease is not a result of age specifically and many people age without suffering from dementia. Alzheimer's disease is a result of various genetic, physical, and environmental risk factors that all contribute to the diagnosis of the disease," explains Dr. Fuller.
Due to the complexity of the disease, there is no simple diagnostic test that can immediately confirm if a patient has Alzheimer's disease. "We do know that the brain pathology of Alzheimer's disease starts several decades before the symptoms of the disease start to present themselves. This makes early diagnosis critical in the effective treatment of the disease," says Dr. Fuller.
Alzheimer's disease is a chronic disease and although major advances have been made in effectively treating it, there is no cure. "Cognitive enhancers have proven to be successful in alleviating the associated symptoms such as anxiety, irritability and agitation. Anti-depressants have also proven to assist treating the mood disorders frequently associated with Alzheimer's disease. Medication that is carefully prescribed can relieve the non-cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's in fifty to seventy percent of patients," says Dr. Fuller.
Alzheimer's disease is a traumatic condition that causes confusion and fear in the sufferer. It is important to treat those diagnosed with the disease with dignity and respect at all times. "Don't contradict an Alzheimer sufferer as this will heighten their anxiety. It is also important that the patient remains involved in decisions that will affect their treatment and care.
Life Rehabilitation in partnership with Life Mental Health offer specialised neuro-geriatric programmes at selected Life Healthcare acute physical rehabilitation and mental health facilities. These facilities provide specialist services to people typically older than 50 years of age who experience challenges in memory, mood, mental health and activities of daily living. A team approach ensures a thorough assessment so that several clinical tools are correlated to ensure high quality diagnosis and management. Early and accurate diagnosis are key to providing best treatment outcomes.
If you suspect that you or someone you know may be experiencing Alzheimer's symptoms or need urgent support email rehab.headoffice@lifehealthcare.co.za
Job Dermatologist - Interior Physicians
Kamloops is a vibrant city set on a vast landscape of sandstone canyons, grasslands and evergreen timberlands. Here you can enjoy all the amenities of a big city, while having eight provincial parks at your door step.
Kamloops takes pride in its arts community and First Nations culture, represented in sites throughout the city, theatre events and music festivals.
Facility Details Royal Inland Hospital : The Royal Inland Hospital (RIH) is a 254-bed facility that serves as the referral centre for approximately 250,000 people, and is located in the Thompson Cariboo Shuswap Health Service Area.
As one of two Interior Health tertiary referral hospitals, RIH is a no refusal centre with an Emergency Department that receives over 250 major trauma and 70,000 visits per year.
Specialty services include Acute Inpatient Psychiatry, Tertiary Inpatient and Community Psychiatric Services, non-interventional Cardiology, Infectious Disease, Neurology, Gastroenterology and others.
Support services include : a full complement of diagnostic equipment, a Clinical Neurophysiology Lab and Sleep Lab, 1.5T MRI, and CT scan, and Echocardiography.
RIH also features TPA Stroke, Stroke Thrombolysis, and provincial Tertiary Neuropsychiatry Programs. RIH is the regional base for the six-
person, 24-hour High Acuity Response Team (HART) that is utilized in remote emergency transport situations. Surgical services include General Surgery, Neurosurgery, Vascular Surgery, Otolaryngology, Plastic Surgery, Urology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, and 24 / 7 Anesthesia coverage.Practice Details :
Full time opportunity to experience fulfilling work and your ideal lifestyle as a Dermatologist in the beautiful city of Kamloops. Come and join us in providing high quality medical, surgical...
