Thank you for considering participation in scientific research to help advance the study of human genetics, genealogy, anthropology and health. We are hopeful that this research will help scientists better understand population history, human migration and improve human health. This Informed Consent relates to research that may be performed by AncestryDNA, a third-party researcher or in collaboration between AncestryDNA and a third-party researcher (as further described below). As to any internal AncestryDNA product development or enhancement work that is not covered by this consent, such development or enhancement is covered by the Ancestry Terms and Conditions and Privacy Statements.
What is the Ancestry Human Diversity Project?
Who conducts the research?
How is my Data used and shared if I give consent?
If I consent, will AncestryDNA or Collaborators and Collaborator Partners contact me?
Are there any costs if I consent? Do I receive compensation or other benefits if I consent?
Do I have to consent to the Project?
What is my alternative to participating?
Can I withdraw from the Project?
Who can I contact about the Project?
We refer to all research focused on the Purpose that AncestryDNA or others may do over time as the Ancestry Human Diversity Project (the "Project"). We refer to Ancestry.com DNA, LLC, Ancestry Ireland Unlimited Company and our affiliated companies collectively as "AncestryDNA," "us," "we," or "our."
Studies performed under this Project may lead to related commercial developments of new products.
These Collaborators may also work with other entities to conduct research associated with our Purpose ("Collaborator Partners"). Find out more about our Collaborators here. The research for the Project may be performed solely by us, or by Collaborators with or without help from AncestryDNA researchers or Collaborator Partners. All researchers, whether affiliated with AncestryDNA, our Collaborators, or Collaborator Partners are referred to in this Informed Consent as "Researchers." AncestryDNA will review all research requests for Biological and DNA Samples (as described below).
Additional Data that may be shared in the future: other information you voluntarily share with us as we expand our Services, such as biosensor data recorded by mobile phones or activity trackers or health and wellness data collected from other devices. You are under no obligation to share additional data with us. However, if you do and you have given consent to participate in the Project, it may be used by the Researchers.
We take your privacy seriously and value the trust you put in us when you allow us to use your Data. Our privacy statements describe how we handle your Data and our compliance with applicable laws for cross-border transfers of Data. As part of the Project, Researchers outside the United States may access and use your Data. If this occurs, those further cross-border transfers of Data will be made in compliance with the mechanism described in our privacy statements. For more information, refer to our Privacy Center and the Privacy Statement.
publication of research results in scientific or medical journals and in other publications and presentations. Your name, contact information and other common identifying information are always removed prior to making any research public.
When we collaborate with government agencies on research, we take all necessary steps to protect the privacy and integrity of your Genetic Data and Biological Samples in accordance with laws and regulations pertaining to government-funded research. In some instances, if we partner with, or our research is funded by, certain U.S. agencies like the National Institutes of Health, we may be required to contribute certain Data to a national database that will be accessible by other researchers. In the event such contribution is required, we will only provide Data that has had identifying information removed in accordance with U.S. federal regulations.
As described in our Privacy Statement, we use multiple layers of physical, technical, and administrative procedures to protect your Data from unauthorized access while conducting our business. These same procedures are used by us to protect your Data used in the Project. In addition, we require our Collaborators and Collaborator Partners to use similar physical, technical, and administrative procedures to protect the Data and Biological Samples we share with them.
Your alternative is not to participate in the Project. You will receive your results from AncestryDNA regardless of your participation and participation is not required to use any of our products or services.
Some of the researchers have also worked on the relation between high level of vitamin D in the body and shorter duration of influenza infection occurring in the body.
Some studies have also found that taking vitamin D supplements can reduce the possibilities of having influenza infection and also that vitamin D is protective against influenza.
You can take vitamin D during influenza but it is not proved that vitamin D will treat the infection.
“Deficiency of vitamin D has an important relationship between itself a number of autoimmune diseases. Read to find out what could be the outcome related to vitamin D deficiency.”
Asthma is an auto immune condition of the system that deals with the respiratory system. This is associated with allergic reaction or other form of hypersensitivity. During the reaction bronco spasm occurs that causes difficulty in breathing. In asthma wheezing occurs i.e. a whistle sound while breathing with tightness of the chest. This is accompanied with shortness of breath and coughing as well. Coughing usually occurs either during early morning or at night. Asthma can occur at any age mostly occurs during childhood. People with asthma must carry an inhaler with themselves in case of an emergency attack. Vitamin D intake is one of the most effective home remedies for asthma to ease its symptoms and also to prevent asthma attack.
A research was carried out on a group of people who were asthmatic and the article published in the allergy journal has revealed that, individuals suffering from asthma who had a decreased level of vitamin D in their body were 25% more likely to be attacked by asthma then the ones whose vitamin D level was within the normal range.
These findings still remained the same even after the other risk factors for asthma like smoking, obesity etc were being assessed by the team.
Inflammation is a protective response by the body’s immune system which occurs in order to get rid of the harmful stimuli or the pathogens in the body ad even the damaged cells of the body. The signs of inflammation are rubor, calor, dolor and tumor i.e. redness, heat, pain and swelling. According to these signs the initial change that occurs is the appearance of redness which followed by a wheel and flare formation that is a red ring like formation. After this that area feels heated and painful this ends end in swelling in the end. It is found that one of the best foods that fight inflammation are mostly rich in vitamin D.
It has been found that vitamin D deficiency is associated with inflammation, which is a negative response.
It is found that low levels of vitamin D have been associated with certain autoimmune diseases like lupus erythmatosis, inflammatory bowel diseases, rheumatoid arthritis etc.
Cholesterol is a waxy compound found the body cells. Cholesterol and its derivatives are important constituents of the cell membrane but increased level of bad cholesterol I n the blood can lead to atherosclerosis. There are two kinds of cholesterol in the body a good one and a bad one. The good one is known as HDL or high den.
Density lipoprotein which helps to prevent the arteries from blocking by removing the bad cholesterol that is LDL or low density lipoproteins from there.
It has been seen in a population research that low levels of vitamin D are associated with high levels of cholesterol. Though this has not proven any cause and effect relationship.
According to a research carried out on 2012 it showed that high level of vitamin D was not associated directly to lowering down of cholesterol in the body but infact it showed increase in the level of LDL in the body.
Therefore, now the final verdict according National Health Institute says that there cholesterol so far.
Sunlight is a very important source of vitamin D because it leads to the conversion of precursor vitamin D into vitamin D
Another good source of vitamin D is fatty fish sardines etc. Fish is already a food that is recommended to be taken twice a week.
Another source of vitamin D is egg yolks. Eggs are healthy foods which enclose good amount of nutritional values.
Fatty liver disease is the accumulation of triglycerides and other fats in the liver cells. | Homepage
Fatty liver disease is the accumulation of triglycerides and other fats in the liver cells. The amount of fatty acid in the liver depends on the balance between the processes of delivery and removal. In some patients, fatty liver may be accompanied by hepatic inflammation and liver cell death (steatohepatitis). Potential pathophysiologic mechanisms for fatty liver include the following:
Previous PostLung cancer is a disease in which certain cells in the lungs become abnormal and multiply uncontrollably to form a tumor.Next PostLassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic illness caused by the lassa virus.
James O. Hill, PhD is the Founding Executive Director of the Anschutz Health and Wellness Center at the University of Colorado and the Anschutz Professor of Pediatrics, Medicine and Physiology & Biophysics. He holds a PhD degree from the University of New Hampshire in Physiological Psychology and was Chair of the first World Health Organization Consultation on Obesity in 1997, the President of The Obesity Society (1997-8) and The American Society for Nutrition (ASN) 2008-9. He was a member of the NIH Expert Panel on Obesity that developed the first U.S guidelines for the treatment and prevention of obesity. Dr. Hill has published more than 500 scientific articles and book chapters. Dr. Hill is a cofounder of the National Weight Control Registry, a registry of individuals who have been successful in maintenance of a reduced body weight and co-founder of America on the Move to inspire Americans to make small changes in how much they eat and how much they move to prevent weight gain.
Visit Us Pin This
Visit Us Share
Join free for exclusive recipes, articles and news about upcoming events!
Email Address
Subscribe
This site uses cookies to provide you with a great user experience. By using our website, you accept our use of cookies.
Calcort is a steroid medicine. This can be prescribed for many different conditions, including serious illnesses. It is used to treat inflammation including asthma, arthritis and allergies; treat problems with your skin, kidney, heart, digestive system, eyes or blood; treat problems where your body has growths (tumours); suppress the immune system in transplant operations.
You need to take it regularly to get the maximum benefit. Take this medicine by mouth. Swallow your tablets whole with a glass of water. It is important to take your medicine at the right times. The usual dose for most conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis is half to three tablets each day. The dose for severe asthma may be up to 8 or 12 tablets each day. This dose may be gradually reduced once the asthma attack has been controlled. For some problems up to 20 tablets may be needed each day for several days.
These tablets may make you feel dizzy, feel like everything around you is spinning, or feel disorientated (vertigo). If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines. Stopping the treatment suddenly can sometimes cause problems such as a high temperature, a runny nose, sore, red, sticky eyes, aching muscles and joints, itchy skin and weight loss. Also, sickness (vomiting), headaches and drowsiness – this is more likely to happen in children.
Check with your doctor before taking this medicine if you have epilepsy (fits); you or anyone in your family has diabetes; you have high blood pressure; you have kidney, liver or heart problems; you have brittle or weak bones called osteoporosis; you have an eye disease that causes detachment of your retina and bulging eyes; you or anyone in your family has an eye problem called glaucoma; You have an underactive thyroid gland; you have problems with your digestive system, including your food pipe (oesophagitis), gut (ulcerative colitis, diverticulitis) or stomach (peptic ulcer); you have ever had a bad reaction such as muscle weakness to any steroid; you have or ever had an infection caused by a virus or fungus; you have or ever had ‘tuberculosis’ (TB); you have any problems with your blood vessels such as a blood clot; you have a pheochromocytoma (a tumour of adrenal gland tissue; the adrenal glands are located above the kidneys.)
Like all medicines, Calcort can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Common side effects are swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, face, lips or throat which may cause difficulty in swallowing or breathing. You could also notice an itchy, lumpy rash (hives) or nettle rash (urticaria). This may mean you are having an allergic reaction to Calcort. You pass black tarry stools or notice fresh or clotted blood in your stools (faeces). You may also notice dark bits that look like coffee grounds in your vomit. These could be signs of a stomach ulcer. Tell a doctor straight away if you notice serious mental health problems. Other serious side effects include a very sore throat and headache, which is usually worse in the morning.
Check with your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines. Painkillers such as aspirin; aminoglutethimide - used for some types of cancer; ketoconazole - used to treat infections; Water tablets (diuretics) such as spironolactone, triamterene or amiloride; medicines for thinning your blood (such as warfarin); medicines for diabetes; medicines for epilepsy such as phenobarbitone, primidone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, acetazolamide; medicines which contain oestrogens including oral contraceptives; medicines for tuberculosis (TB) such as rifampicin or rifabutin; medicines for high blood pressure; medicines for indigestion and heartburn (antacids); if you are taking an antacid leave at least 2 hours between taking it and Calcort; medicines for asthma such as salbutamol and theophylline.
If you forget to take a dose take it as soon as you remember, unless it is time for your next dose. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
department straight away. Remember to take with you any tablets that are left and the pack. This is so the doctor knows what you have taken.
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. Keep this medicine below 25°C. Keep it in the pack in which it was given to you. Do not transfer your medicine to another container.
Response, Babinski: A neurologic reflex that constitutes an important medical examination based, believe it or not, upon what the big toe does when the sole of the ...
Babinski response, medical definition, medical terms, Online Medical Dictionary and glossary with medical definitions
This is an electromyographic study of the activity in flexor and extensor muscles of the big toe in 22 patients with a Babinski sign and 49 controls, after mechanical or ...
The Babinski Reflex is a normal response in infants up to the age of 2, in which the big toe extends upwards and backwards, while the other toes fan outwardly; however ...
The use of medical drugs for the treatment of hangover
A hangover is a painful condition which is caused by the intoxication effect of alcoholic beverages on the human body. Pills for hangover you can buy in the pharmacy without prescription and treated them at home. This article describes the basic preparations for a hangover, especially their effects on the body and rules of admission.
Basic tips on intake anti-hangover drugs
Many are concerned about what to drink for the hangover. Medicines can help to cope with the main symptoms of this condition. But take them with caution.
Below are tips that should be followed when choosing a medication hangover.
Carefully read the instructions for medication, a list of contraindications to them, the rules of dispensing.
Check the expiration date of the medication. It is always indicated on the package. Expired drugs can lead to poisoning.
Do not combine the medication with alcohol. Alcoholic drinks can increase the effect of the drug and cause an overdose.
Pay attention to the integrity of the packaging. In case of depressurization of the drug may deteriorate, lose its properties.
Do not take medicines that you have ever had an allergic reaction.
If after taking some drugs, you feel deterioration call ambulance.
Please note that any medication can give side effect. Possible, consult your family doctor or therapist about the rules of admission to anti-hangover medicines.
Treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome is usually done at home. But do not forget that the use of large doses of alcohol can develop serious disorders and diseases in the internal organs.
The following is the main symptoms and conditions in which you should not take pills at home, and urgently call the ambulance and go to hospital.
Vomiting and diarrhea is black in color. These symptoms indicate the development of gastrointestinal bleeding. It can occur in a person who is sick with peptic ulcer disease or gastritis after ingestion of large doses of alcohol.
Blurred vision in flies and veil before the eyes, worsening. This symptom is characteristic of poisoning with methyl – surrogate of alcohol. This condition can lead to complete blindness and death.
Violation of consciousness, convulsions, hallucinations, symptoms of severe alcohol poisoning, which treatment is carried out in the intensive care unit.
A strong girdle of abdominal pain is a sign of acute pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas). This condition requires immediate medical intervention.
Yellowing of sclera, skin and visible mucous membranes. These symptoms can indicate hepatitis, hemolysis, disruption of the kidneys.
What drugs can be used in the treatment of hangover
Hangover drugs used to relieve symptoms and to reduce toxic effects of alcohol on the body. These should be taken in the morning (after waking up). Now in pharmacies you can find a lot of drugs that are designed to eliminate the symptoms of hangover, but not always, these medicines is enough.
What pill to drink with a hangover? The following is a list of the best funds from the hangover that you can take at home.
These substances are neutralized and removed from the intestines of toxins and poisons that are left in it after alcohol. They improve the digestive system and prevent absorption of toxins from the intestine into the bloodstream. They should be drunk separately from other medicines.
The most common sorbents include:
Rehydron is one of the most effective means for the treatment of intoxication syndrome and dehydration. In its composition it resembles the solutions that is administered through a drip.
It is available in pre-measured packs. One sachet is to be dissolved a liter of plain water. In the day you should drink 2-3 liters of such a solution.
The nausea can be used drugs affecting the vomiting center in the brain. They block the urge to vomit, eliminate nausea.
Drugs are available in tablet and injectable form. At home, you should use only tablets:
These medications are taken just once in the morning. They relieve symptoms within 20-30 minutes and last all day. If nausea and vomiting is not passed, you should consult a doctor. These symptoms can be signs of alcohol poisoning, pancreatitis, inflammation of the gallbladder.
Headache is a major symptom of a hangover. It develops as a result of high blood pressure, spasm of blood vessels and intoxication of the organism. To get rid of it will help non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that have analgesic (pain) effect:
Remember that the treatment of a hangover to use the tablets is prohibited. One of its ingredients is caffeine which increases the blood pressure. After drinking alcohol develops hypertension (high blood pressure), and medications with caffeine will exacerbate the patient's condition.
Basic Research Journals Editorial Policy
Basic Research Journals adhere strictly to certain ethical standards in order to guarantee excellence in scientific publications and to ensure that people receive credit for their works. Basic Research Journals adopt the standard of (COPE) and abides by its Code of Conduct and aims to adhere to its Best Practicable Guidelines.
Basic Research Journals are committed to publishing innovative and original material i.e., material that has not been published elsewhere, nor is under consideration for publication by another publisher. So it is of huge significant if authors avoid the following ethical violations.
Basic Research Journals is not usually in a position to investigate misconduct allegations themselves, but editors have a responsibility to alert appropriate bodies (for example, employers, funders, regulatory authorities) and encourage them to investigate.
· Basic Research Journals Journals' editors and readers have a right to expect that submitted work is the author's own and that it has not been plagiarized (i.e. taken from other authors without permission, if permission is required) and that copyright has not been breached (for example, if figures or tables are reproduced).
Basic Research Journals Authors Guidelines:
· The award of authorship should balance intellectual contributions to the conception, design, analysis and writing of the study against the collection of data and other routine work. If there is no task that can reasonably be attributed to a particular individual, then that individual should not be credited with authorship.
· Authors must declare that the work reported is their own and that they are the copyright owner (or else have obtained the copyright owner's permission).
· Authors must declare that the submitted work and its essential substance have not previously been published and are not being considered for publication elsewhere. Only unpublished manuscripts are to be submitted.
· Author(s) must avoid conflict of interest over attribution of academic credit, it is helpful to decide early on in the planning of a research project who will be credited as authors, as contributors, and who will be acknowledged. For this reason, conflict of interest must be clearly stated.
· All errors discovered in the manuscript after submission should be communicated to the editor as they are discovered.
· All authors must take public responsibility for the content of their paper. The multidisciplinary nature of much research can make this difficult, but this can be resolved by the disclosure of individual contributions. Careful reading of the targeted journal, advice to authors is accepted in the light of current uncertainties.
· During submission, author(s) should state that the study they submited was approved by the relevant research ethics committee or institutional review board. If human participants were involved, manuscripts must be accompanied by a statement that the experiments were undertaken with the understanding and appropriate informed consent of each. If experimental animals were used, the materials and methods (experimental procedures) section must clearly indicate that appropriate measures were taken to minimize pain or discomfort, and details of animal care should be provided.
· Author(s) should include information about research funding in all papers they prepare for publication.
· Authors should inform journals if they discover errors in published work.
· Authors have a right to appeal editorial decisions
Basic Research Journals Reviewers Guidelines:
· All manuscripts under the care of Basic Research Journals are reviewed in fairness based on the intellectual content of the paper regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, religion nor political values of author(s).
· Observed conflict of interest during the review process should be communicated to the Editor.
· All information pertaining to the manuscripts under the care of Basic Research Journals are kept confidential.
· All information that may be the reason for the rejection of publication of a manuscript should be communicated to the Editor.
· A submitted manuscript should not be retained or copied.
· Reviewers and editors should not make any use of data, arguments, or interpretations, unless they
· Reviewers should provide speedy, accurate, courteous, unbiased and justifiable reports.
Basic Research Journals Editors Guidelines:
· Editors decisions to accept or reject any manuscript for publication should be based only on the paper's importance, originality and clarity.
· Editors must treat all submitted manuscript with utmost confidential.
· Editors should inform peer reviewers about any form of Misconduct.
· Editors should encourage peer reviewers to consider ethical issues raised in the research they are reviewing
· Editors should request additional information from authors if they feel it is required.
· Editors should exercise sensitivity when publishing images of objects that might have cultural significance or cause offence.
· Editors should inform readers if ethical breaches have occurred.
· Editors should encourage peer reviewers to identify if there is a conflict of interest with the material they are ask to review, and editors should ask that peer reviewers to decline invitations requesting peer review where any circumstances might prevent them from producing fair peer review.
· Editors may choose to use peer reviewers suggested by authors, but should not consider suggestions made by authors as binding.
· Editors should mediate all exchanges between authors and peer reviewers during the peer-review process (i.e. prior to publication). If agreement cannot be reached, editors should consider inviting comments from additional peer reviewer(s), if the editor feels that this would be helpful. Journals should consider stating in their guidelines that the editor's decision following such an appeal is final.
· Decisions made by editors about whether to publish individual items submitted to a journal should not be influenced by pressure from the editor's employer, the journal owner or the publisher.
· Editors should publish corrections of errors detected that could affect the interpretation of data or information presented in an article.
· Editors should expect allegations of theft or plagiarism to be substantiated, and should treat allegations of theft or plagiarism seriously.
· Editors should protect peer reviewers from authors even if peer reviewer identities are revealed, should discourage authors from contacting peer reviewers directly, especially if misconduct is suspected.
· Editors should reserve the right to reject papers if there is doubt whether appropriate procedures have been followed. If a paper has been submitted from a country where there is no ethics committee, institutional review board, or similar review and approval, editors should use their own experience to judge whether the paper should be published. If the decision is made to publish a paper under these circumstances a short statement should be included to explain the situation.
· Editors should aim to ensure timely peer review and publication for papers they receive, especially where, to the extent that this can be predicted, findings may have important implications.
· The Editorial Board takes responsibility for making publication decisions for submitted manuscripts based on the reviewer's evaluation of the manuscript, policies of the journal editorial board and legal action acting against plagiarism, libel and copyright infringement.
Belongings Pointers To Use When Marketing Your Rehabilitation Center-Addiction treatment centers no insurance near florida - homepage
Belongings Pointers To Use When Marketing Your Rehabilitation Center-Addiction treatment centers no insurance near florida
Content by-Thrane FyhnMaking your dependency treatment and therapy organisation successful is a big endeavor for a solitary owner to pursue. https://www.facebook.com/119390944855290/posts/1703801763080859/ won't immediately find the very best way to market their services. You need to learn the very best marketing techniques to utilize to gain a h… Read More
Opiate addiction treatment centers near me of yardley pa-Ways To Grow Maintain And Operate Your Own Addiction Rehabilitation Service Today
Content create by-Cardenas DurhamThe level of happiness the customers feel is most crucial to the life of any rehab clinic. When you do something to distress your clients, they're going to stop buying from you and will inform others about their disappointment. If you supply high quality results your consumers will undoubtedly reward you with positi… Read More
Opiate addiction treatment centers near me in florida-Attempt These Remarkable Marketing Techniques For Your Dependency Rehab Business
Content written by-Russo SanchezSignificant amounts of money can be acquired while operating your own addiction treatment and therapy business, but you're going to need to have an understanding of how to work out care while taking dangers. It's a should that you implement as much research as you could previously your company is formally begun. If y… Read More
Valuable Pointers To Utilize When Marketing Your Rehabilitation Center-Alcohol addiction treatment center near me in boca raton fl
Article writer-Mohamed FyhnMaking your dependency treatment and therapy business effective is a huge venture for a singular owner to pursue. They likely won't instantly discover the best method to market their services. You require to find out the best marketing strategies to use to acquire a healthy market share. Here are some ideas to bear in min… Read More
Appropriately Marketing Your Addiction Rehabilitation Business With These Tips-Drug treatment centers near me fort washington
Content writer-Putnam RingYou can support yourself today by working on your enthusiasm in owning a dependency treatment and therapy business. Prior to selecting where to invest your resources, look keenly on your interests, pastimes and talents. The extremely first thing to do prior to contacting consumers and looking for clients is having a compan… Read More
This includes occupational suitability assessments or diagnosing voice and speech disorders through the use of a stroboscope to examin the vocal chords, for example.
We carry out outpatient sleep assessments for people who suffer from snoring and recommend treatment options.
We can also provide advice to help you decide whether an operation is necessary or not (second opinion).
Diagnostic and Therapy
Outpatient sleep assessments
We offer screening and polysomnographies for people who suffer from snoring or suspected sleep apnoea.
Radiofrequency therapy
Reduction in size of the nasal turbinates with radiofrequency surgery to treat difficulties in breathing through the nose
Voice and speech disorders
Identification of organic changes (e.g. vocal fold nodules or polyps) and functional disorders of the vocal cords. If you have hoarseness that lasts for more than two weeks, you should seek professional medical advice.
Stroboscopic examinations
Diagnosis of functional voice disorders, chronic hoarseness
Occupational suitability assessments
Assessments for professions involving speaking or singing, for example actors, singers or speech therapists
Diving fitness assessments
We will discuss your personal risk level and explain medical issues related to diving
Acupuncture
Headaches, migraine, neural pain such as trigeminal neuralgia, diseases of the respiratory system, sinus infections, chronic inflammation, allergies
Susceptibility to infection
Investigation of possible causes and individual treatment programmes
Cancer screening (for smokers)
Examination of the oral cavity, throat, neck and larynx for changes in the mucous membranes
Pre-surgical second opinion
We can provide advice to help you decide whether to go ahead with surgery for hearing problems, chronic sinusitis, polyposis, difficulty in breathing through the nose, chronic tonsillitis and tumours.
Gallery
Dr. med. Manfred Bartsch • Dr. med. Maren Hoffmann-Becking
Ear, Nose and Throat Specialists | Allergology | Voice and Speech Disorders
T +49 (0) 211 43 16 56 • F +49 (0) 211 45 16 59 • Kaiserswerther Straße 283 • 40474 Düsseldorf • contact • legal notice • data protection
© 2021 HNO-in-Duesseldorf
We use cookies on our website. Some of them are essential for the operation of the site, while others help us to improve this site and the user experience (tracking cookies). You can decide for yourself whether you want to allow cookies or not. Please note that if you reject them, you may not be able to use all the functionalities of the site.
PERIODIC SAFETY REVIEWS | CapitalEnergy
In many countries periodic safety reviews are required to be carried out by the plant operator as a condition for his site licence. The primary objective of most PSRs is to undertake a detailed and comprehensive review of the safety of the plant, taking into account operational safety, the possible deleterious effects of ageing, and also advances in safety standards since the original construction or time of the last review.
Periodic safety reviews are usually complementary to the normal regulatory reviews that are carried out, e. g. between fuel cycles and do not affect them. PSRs have developed
for a number of reasons. Public confidence has diminished and regulatory requirements have become more stringent over the past decade or so driving a demand for higher standards of safety not only in new plants, but also in currently operating plants. Perhaps rather more importantly though, experience has shown that there are positive benefits from PSRs to both safety and performance and they are supported by both operators and regulators.
A list of safety issues identified for PSRs is given in Table 3.8 together with a frame­work for review that was endorsed by the 1991 IAEA Safety Conference (Goodison, 1997).
A review of experience of PSRs has been published in CEC Working Group (1990) and Goodison (1997). It concludes that PSR practices show considerable commonalties. This is particularly so within the EC due to similarities in regulatory regimes within the EC countries. At the top level, the procedure is broadly similar. There is agreement of the scope between the licensee and the regulator. The licensee undertakes the review, implements the modifications and reports to the regulator. The procedure is then followed by review by the regulator and the identification of any further modifications. Finally agreement is reached between the licensee and the regulator on how to fulfil the agreed programme.
The differences in PSR practices depend mainly on the methodology, the standards and scope that are adopted. These differences might relate to the standards for radiological protection or on the level of redundancy and diversity of the safety systems. The criteria for PSAs are also not universally agreed. There are also differences in the periodicity requirements for PSR reviews.
The potential benefits of PSAs include improved safety via the implementation of modifications to an improved safety level (closer to that of a modern plant), including the
Table 3.8. Safety issues to be addressed in PSRs
Safety issues Recommended procedures for assessing each issue
Assess each issue with current methods to determine the safety status Compare the safety status with current standards Identify shortfalls
Assess the safety significance of any
shortfalls and carry out remedial measures Implement practicable modifications and assess safety significance of remaining shortfalls Repeat for each issue
Gain indication of safety level compared with modern plant and identify shortfalls from current safety standards and best practices Improve plant routine operations including optimisation of maintenance, test and inspection techniques and improve plant availability Identify strengths and weaknesses of personnel
Gain improved understanding of plant safe working life and life-limiting causes Improve regulator confidence in the continued safe running of the plant, improve the licensee's confidence for future planning and investment and improve national public and international confidence
Goodison (1997).
identification of short-falls in present practices and improved confidence (in the regulator, operator, public, etc.) (Table 3.9).
The first comprehensive review of the plant is usually the most demanding. Subsequent reviews would be expected to be quicker (and cheaper). Initial PSRs, of very old plants may require extensive modification or possibly result in closure. For future plants, initial PSRs might be expected to be less onerous.
