Innovation Agency NWC - Patients to get faster access to new treatments and tech
Patients to get faster access to new treatments and tech
Ground-breaking treatments and technologies tackling key health issues such as cancer, dementia and obesity, are to be fast-tracked to NHS patients quicker than ever in a move welcomed by the Innovation Agency.
It follows the expansion of the recently created Accelerated Access Collaborative (AAC) which brings together the Government, NHS and industry leaders, streamlining national structures which support innovation in the NHS.
The AAC will accelerate the most promising medicines, diagnostic tools and digital services through the clinical development and regulatory approval process so patients can benefit as soon as possible.
It will act as the national front door for innovators looking to get their products funded by the NHS and it will provide a tailored package of support to overcome the barriers in the NHS which can prevent the best medical innovations from reaching patients.
Speeding up the time it takes for NHS patients to access the best innovations is a core part of the NHS Long Term Plan, which is backed by an extra £33.9 billion.
Part of the plan involves extra funding for the Innovation Agency and its 14 fellow Academic Health Science Networks (AHSNs) to deliver Innovation Exchanges, finding the right support for innovative products, promoting regional adoption and spread and increasing health system collaboration.
Innovation Agency Chief Executive Dr Liz Mear said: "For the AHSNs acting as the agents for change on the ground, it is really exciting to see this strengthening of NHS structures and leadership to get innovations to patients, faster.
"We are already experiencing a bigger push from the centre to accelerate the move of new products from the lab bench to the bedside and I am looking forward to seeing the impact of our bold ambition on the people who matter most, our patients."
The AAC has launched a number of 'rapid uptake products' to increase their uptake and use within the NHS, which are being supported by the Innovation Agency and all AHSNs. This includes a blood test for pre-eclampsia, which can diagnose the condition earlier in pregnancy and significantly reduce life-threatening complications.
"Exposure to Anesthetic May Promote Addiction: Study Shows Anesthesiologists Are Exposed to Fentanyl despite Its Intravenous Administration" by Splete, Heidi - Clinical Psychiatry News, Vol. 32, Issue 12, December 2004 | Online Research Library: Questia
Home » Browse » Magazines » Psychology Magazines » Clinical Psychiatry News » Article details, "Exposure to Anesthetic May Promote Addiction:..."
WASHINGTON -- Exposure to fentanyl in the operating room may fuel the consistently high rates of substance abuse among anesthesiologists, Mark S. Gold, M.D., reported at the annual conference of the Association for Medical Education and Research in Substance Abuse.
Although substance use problems among physicians receive more attention than they did in the past, few studies have examined possible prognostic factors, said Dr. Gold, chief of addiction medicine at the University of Florida, Gainesville.
When ether, chloroform, and nitrous gas were used, anesthesiologists would keep track of their mental status because they knew there was a danger of secondhand exposure. What they don't know is that the risk remains despite the use of intravenous analgesics, he said at the conference, also sponsored by Brown Medical School.
When a patient is injected with fentanyl in the operating room, Dr. Gold proposed, he or she becomes the vector for distribution of the analgesic into the air by breathing it out through the mouth. This puts anesthesiologists at increased risk for secondhand exposure because they work directly over the patient. Dr. Gold and his colleagues collected samples of the air in a cardiovascular surgery suite where massive amounts of fentanyl were used--more than the body could metabolize--and found that fentanyl was expired by patients and available for secondhand exposure.
"We collected air and compared chromatograms, and we could extract fentanyl from the air over the patient's mouth, where the anesthesiologist would be," Dr. Gold explained.
The clinical implications of these findings may prompt hospital administrators to reassess their operating room setups. "Just because a drug is injected intravenously does not mean that it won't contaminate the air," Dr. Gold said. Fentanyl is released into the air simply by popping open the vial, for example, or there could be leakage from the intravenous line during surgery.
"We are convinced, based on these data, that further studies are indicated, and we have ongoing sampling of anesthesiologists during cardiovascular surgery to measure their fentanyl levels through second-hand exposure," he said. "We also are planning a provocative functional brain image study where we show a picture of an operating room and measure brain imaging changes."
The air collection study focused on fentanyl because it is 100 times more powerful than morphine and is injected in very high doses. The Department of Defense took an interest in the research, and made a financial contribution, because fentanyl was the drug used to put Russian theater-goers to sleep in 2002 after Chechen rebels had stormed the building.
Fentanyl is a common drug of abuse in Florida. "If you look at the database for the state of Florida, fentanyl is abused in 90% of cases of physician addicts," and if fentanyl is being abused by a physician, there's a "9-out-of-10 chance that it is an anesthesiologist," he said. …
Gold, Mark S.--Research
Anesthesiologists--Research
Anesthesiologists--Drug Use
Fentanyl--Adverse and Side Effects
Fentanyl--Research
Alcohol Is Not the Gateway to Hard Drug Abuse By Golub, Andrew Lang Johnson, Bruce D. Journal of Drug Issues, Vol. 28, No. 4, Fall 1998
Applying a Public Health Approach to Drug Abuse Research By Compton, Wilson M. Journal of Drug Issues, Vol. 35, No. 3, Summer 2005
Exposure to Anesthetic May Promote Addiction: Study Shows Anesthesiologists Are Exposed to Fentanyl despite Its Intravenous Administration By Splete, Heidi Clinical Psychiatry News, Vol. 32, No. 12, December 2004
Monitoring Helps Addicted Anesthesiologists on Naltrexone By Boschert, Sherry Clinical Psychiatry News, Vol. 38, No. 6, June 2010
Offering Inmates the Key to Escape from Addiction; A New Charity Is Tackling Two Big Causes of Criminality - Drug and Alcohol Abuse By Stacey, Sarah The Evening Standard (London, England), August 18, 2003
Offering Inmates the Key to Escape from Addiction; London Jobs: Rehabilitation: A New Charity Is Tackling Two Big Causes of Criminality - Drug and Alcohol Abuse. Sarah Stacey Reports By Stacey, Sarah The Evening Standard (London, England), August 18, 2003
6-Drug Test (Strip) RapiDip™ InstaTest(AMP,BZD,COC,MET,MAD,MOR)
Rapid Amphetamine - Benzodiazepine- Cocaine- Methamphetamine- Methadone- Opiate/Morphine Drug test (Strip)
Item #: 120630-1
6-Panel Drug Test (Strip) (AMP,BZD,COC,MET,MAD,MOR) description:
Los Angeles based Diagnostic Automation/Cortez Diagnostics, Inc. offers a 6 Panel Drug Test for any combination drugs: (AMP) Amphetamine drug test, (BZD) Benzodiazepine drug test, (COC) Cocaine drug test, (MET) Methamphetamine drug test, (MTD) Methadone drug test, and (MOR) Morphine drug test. This multi drug test kit is designed for qualitative determination of drug substances in human urine specimen.
The 6 Panel - (AMP) Amphetamine drug test, (BZD) Benzodiazepine drug test, (COC) Cocaine drug test, (MET) Methamphetamine drug test, (MTD) Methadone drug test, and (MOR) Morphine Drug Testing device is based on the principle of specific immunochemical reaction between antibodies and antigens to analyze particular compounds in human urine specimen. The assay relies on the competition for binding antibody between drug conjugate and free drug which may be present in the urine specimen being tested. When the Amphetamine (AMP), Benzodiazepine (BZD), Cocaine (COC), Methamphetamine (MET), Methadone (MTD), or Morphine (MOR) drug is present in the urine specimen, it competes with drug conjugate for the limited amount of antibody-dye conjugate. When the amount of the Amphetamine (AMP), Benzodiazepine (BZD), Cocaine (COC), Methamphetamine (MET), Methadone (MTD), or Morphine (MOR) drug is equal or more than the cut-off, it will prevent the binding of drug conjugate to the antibody. Therefore, a positive urine specimen on this 6 Panel Drug Test will not show a colored band on the test line zone, indicating a positive result, while the presence of a colored band indicates a negative result. A control line is present in the test window to work as procedural control. This colored band should always appear on the control line zone if the 6 Panel Drug testing device is stored in good condition and the 6 Panel Drug Test- (AMP) Amphetamine drug test, (BZD) Benzodiazepine drug test, (COC) Cocaine drug test, (MET) Methamphetamine drug test, (MTD) Methadone drug test, and (MOR) Morphine drug test is performed appropriately.
Amphetamines, potent sympathominetic agents, are central nervous stimulants which cause the neutrotrransmitters epinephrine, norepinephrine and dopamine to be released into the brain and body causing euphoria, alertness, and increased energy, and in more acute cases producing anxiety, paranoia, hallucinations and psychotic behavior. Benzodiazepines are central nervous system depressants that can result in addiction and lead to drowsiness, dizziness, muscle relaxation, lethargy, coma, and possible death. Cocaine, from cocoa plant leaves, is a potent central nervous system stimulant which could induce physiological dependency. Methadone, a synthetic opioid that acts on central nervous system to produce respiratory and circulatory depression, is used for treatment of severe pain and in maintenance for morphine and heroin addictions, and in high doses induces analgesia, sedation, respiratory depression and coma. Methamphetamine, a synthetic amphetamine derivative, is a potent sympathomimetic agent that leads to euphoria, alertness, reduced appetite, and increased energy with acute doses producing anxiety, paranoia, psychosis, and cardiac dysrhythmias. Morphine (MOR) is an opioid analgesic, the principal and most active alkaloid of opium. Acute high doses of opiates-heroin-morphine drugs used by abusers or addicts can cause depressed coordination, disrupted decision, decreased respiration, hypothermia and coma.
The six panel drug test kit-(AMP) Amphetamine drug test, (BZD) Benzodiazepine drug test, (COC) Cocaine drug test, (MET) Methamphetamine drug test, (MTD) Methadone drug test, and (MOR) Morphine drug test provides only a preliminary analytical test result. A more specific alternative chemical method must be used in order to obtain a confirmed analytical result. Gas chromatography/ mass spectrometry (GC/MS) has been established as the preferred confirmatory method by the Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). Clinical consideration and professional judgment should be applied to any drug of abuse test result, particularly when preliminary positive results are indicated.
The optional built-in Adulteration Test is for validation of urine specimen's integrity and must not be used for In Vitro diagnostic use. For customized cutoff levels for any multi panel drug tests, please contact Customer Service. This 6 panel drug test - (AMP) Amphetamine drug test, (BZD) Benzodiazepine drug test, (COC) Cocaine drug test, (MET) Methamphetamine drug test, (MTD) Methadone drug test, and (MOR) Morphine drug test is available in cassette, strip, or cup format.
Implementation of Decrees 457 and 482 of 2020 regarding transport | Brigard Urrutia
By means of External Circular No. 202010125131 of April 2, 2020, the Ministry of Transport develops Decrees to issue provisions on public transport.
The circular makes provision for the following services:
1. The public service of land transport of cargo.
The exceptions referred to in Decree 457 do not specify a type of vehicle, but rather limit the cargo transport service to that which corresponds to the goods strictly necessary to prevent, mitigate and attend to the emergency and which are listed in Article 3 of the same Decree, as well as the cargo transport of imports and exports.
2. Collective land transport service for passengers (metropolitan, district and municipal), mixed and special.
Decree No. 457 provides that public land transport services must be guaranteed in the national territory for persons carrying out the activities permitted under article 3.
Decree 482 of 2020, did not establish limitations on the modalities for the transport of persons exempted under article 3 of Decree 457, therefore, the transport service must continue to be provided in the modalities of passenger groups (metropolitan, district, municipal), mixed and special.
3. Mass public passenger transport service
Decree 482 of 2020, establishes that during the state of emergency and mandatory preventive isolation, the authorized offer cannot, in any case, exceed fifty percent (50%) of the maximum offer in each system according to the mobility analysis of each municipal, district or metropolitan authority.
4. Public service of individual land transport of passengers in taxi type vehicles
Decree 482 of 2020 establishes that, during the state of emergency and the mandatory preventive isolation, it is allowed to operate the public service of individual passenger transport of the taxi type that is offered by telephone or through technological platforms authorized by the Ministry of Transport to transport people who are exempted under Article 3 of Decree 457 of 2020. The service must be provided in strict compliance with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Social Protection regarding the conditions for preventing contamination and implementing biosecurity measures.
5. Public service of land transport of passengers
Article 4 of Decree 457 of 2020 states that transport must be guaranteed to persons carrying out the activities of Article 3 of the same Decree.
Article 4 of Decree 482 of 2020 establishes that during the state of emergency and mandatory preventive isolation, public passenger transport by land is allowed only for access or the provision of health services and to persons who require mobilization and are authorized under the terms of Decree 457 of 2020.
For each authorized route, operations are reduced to 50% of the authorized transport capacity, without prejudice to the possibility of modifying this percentage. 50% is understood to be the maximum permitted to offer, so that they may operate at a lower percentage, which does not result in the sanction for cancellation of the route.
The land transport terminals must continue to provide their services, considering the authorized operations offer or guaranteeing the attention to the public in a non-face-to-face way either by telephone or e-mail.
6. Fluvial transport
Article 4 of Decree 457 of 2020 establishes that the fluvial transport service in the national territory must be guaranteed as strictly necessary to prevent, mitigate and attend to the health emergency caused by the Coronavirus COVID-19 and for the transport of people and goods exempted in Article 3 of the same Decree.
COVID-19 patient information and its impact on businesses - AZ Big Media
Business News / COVID-19 patient information and its impact on businesses
COVID-19 patient information and its impact on businesses
Business News | 7 Apr, 2020 | Meghan OConnor and Simone Colgan Dunlap
In response to the declaration of a nationwide emergency concerning COVID-19, the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued a waiver (effective March 15) of limited HIPAA Privacy Rule obligations for covered entities located in Secretary Azar's January 31 public health emergency declaration area during the first 72 hours after the activation of the entity's emergency response plan. Under the waiver, HHS will waive sanctions and penalties against a covered hospital that does not comply with the following provisions of the Privacy Rule:
Under HIPAA, covered entity health care providers may disclose PHI about individuals who have been exposed to, or are suspected of having contracted, COVID-19 to public health authorities authorized by law to receive such information for preventing or controlling the spread of disease. However, providers should consult applicable authority under state law before relying solely on HIPAA as authorizing a permissive disclosure. Some states have mandatory public health reporting obligations. Further, reporting obligations and options may vary depending on whether the subject individual is a patient, workforce member who is not a patient, or workforce member who is also a patient.
COVID-19 and the risks of an expanded remote workforce
How COVID-19 increases cyber risk and tips to protect yourself
On March 24, OCR issued guidance outlining how providers may disclose health information about an individual infected with or exposed to COVID-19 to law enforcement, paramedics, and other first responders (in addition to public health authorities) without patient authorization. The guidance outlines disclosures for treatment purposes, when first responders may be at risk of infection, and provides additional specific examples related to EMS and 911 call centers. The guidance also reminds providers of the general obligation (with limited exceptions) to limit disclosures to minimally necessary information.
Providers should familiarize themselves with permissive and mandatory reporting obligations and state-specific obligations regarding handling, use, and disclosure of patient information.
In addition to HIPAA, health and life sciences entities are familiar with additional legal obligations related to particularly sensitive health information, including alcohol and drug abuse treatment records, HIV, mental health, etc. These increased protections remain in place without express waivers or exceptions for emergencies.
HIPAA's obligations to implement and maintain reasonable and appropriate administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect confidentiality, integrity, and availability of protected health information are not waived in a public health emergency. Providers adapting to changing conditions, makeshift testing facilities, and increased patient volumes must continue to implement appropriate safeguards.
With increasing interest in symptoms, testing, care, and outcomes of COVID-19 patients, access controls are an important safeguard for snooping (even from well-meaning workforce members). HIPAA covered entities must implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards, to protect confidentiality, integrity, and availability of protected health information. Providers should implement heightened access controls (e.g., break the glass or VIP designations), provide reminders to workforce members on appropriate and inappropriate access, and review and respond audit logs.
Meghan O'Connor and Simone Colgan Dunlap are attorneys with Quarles & Brady. For assistance, contact Meghan O'Connor at 414.277.5423 or [email protected] and Simone Colgan Dunlap at 602.229.5510 or [email protected]. For more information, please visit https://www.quarles.com/covid-19-guidance-for-clients/ for comprehensive, free-to-access COVID-19 resources.
Netskope Selected as Box Trust Partner - Netskope
Netskope Selected as Box Trust Partner
Enterprise-grade data loss prevention capabilities to empower secure content collaboration for businesses
LOS ALTOS, Calif. – December 9, 2014 – Netskope, the leader in safe cloud enablement, today announced its participation in the new Box Trust ecosystem, a comprehensive security initiative that provides Box customers with a unified network of partners and solutions that help ensure security, visibility and accessibility for critical business content. The integration of Netskope for Box enables users to seamlessly address data loss prevention (DLP) and usage controls within the platform and across Box ecosystem apps. This demonstrates Netskope's continued momentum as a preferred provider of cloud application security as enterprises increasingly demand secure cloud-based content collaboration capabilities.
Netskope joins the Box Trust ecosystem of security, governance and compliance partners to provide trusted services for customers as they manage and migrate content in the cloud. Through this integration, Netskope will provide context-aware cloud DLP and encryption to customers, providing them with visibility and control over company data within Box, regardless of when it was uploaded. Netskope was selected as a partner based on market leadership, integration capabilities, and a demonstrated commitment towards joint customer success.
"Businesses continually lean on Box to collaborate on proprietary business information, so implementing added layers of security like DLP can be invaluable," said Rajneesh Chopra, vice president of product management at Netskope. "Our integration with Box and inclusion in the Box Trust ecosystem will allow companies to manage and collaborate in a secure yet highly accessible environment."
37704A Agilent Communication Analyzer Used US & Canada 800-552-8258 or 847-468-8258
Home > Telecom Test Equipment > Keysight Agilent HP > 37704A 37704A Agilent Communication Analyzer SONET Test Set The 37704A is a communication analyzer from Agilent. A communication analyzer is a superior type of electronic test equipment for physical layer, circuit, and new technology testing. Anyone in the business of testing data networks can use a communication analyzer for the measurement and monitoring of equipment.
Keysight Agilent HP 37704A Features:
The Agilent 37704A is a comprehensive, field-portable, SONET, DS3, and DS1 test set for applications up to 622 Mb/s. It provides generation and analysis of VT (DS1) and DS3-mapped SONET signals, with full control of section, line, and path overhead bytes. Plug-in modules provide connection to a range of optical and electrical interfaces. Errors, alarms, and T1X1 pointer movement sequences are generated to stress equipment up to and beyond ANSI standards.
THE VALUE OF BIBLIOMETRIC DATABASES: DATA-INTENSIVE STUDIES BEYOND SEARCH AND DISCOVERY. Global Research Report
Authors: Jonathan Adams, David Pendlebury and Martin Szomszo. Institute for Scientific Information https://tinyurl.com/utstunl.
In 2019, around 145,000 researchers from, on average, 139 countries working across a diversity of research disciplines interrogated the Web of Science each day to explore research information and discover key literature to inform current research.
In 1981 the Web of Science indexed approximately 500,000 papers (substantive academic articles and reviews) from 6,800 journals; this expanded substantially to 2.5 million papers sourced from 21,300 journals in 2019. This is a deep data resource for a wide range of analytic uses.
There are, however, few studies of how the Web of Science is used as a bibliographic database other than for the purposes of search and discovery. Our analysis shows that Web of Science is the primary source of publication and citation data for the majority of systematic research reviews across a broad range of disciplines and about twice as many research management and evaluation studies as any other source. Web of Science is the primary data source for such work in the USA, China, and most of western Europe. Countries where the Scopus database was more frequently acknowledged include Iran and Italy.
A key beneficiary of structured use of Web of Science bibliographic records are the biomedical researchers who have an established and structured approach to accessing raw material for reviews that inform the development and current state of research topics that are critical to human health and disease control. (F: Executive summary of the report, february 2020).
DVd-T Results in High Anti-Cancer Response Rates in Multiple Myeloma
According to results presented at the 2003 annual meeting of the American Society of Hematology (ASH), the treatment combination consisting of Doxil®, Oncovin® (vincristine), dexamethasone and Thalomid® (thalidomide) produces high anti-cancer response rates in patients with multiple myeloma. However, long-term follow-up and direct comparative clinical trials to different treatment approaches are necessary to determine the true clinical relevance of DVd-T in the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Multiple myeloma is a cancer involving important immune (infection-fighting) cells called plasma cells. Plasma cells aid the body in fighting infection by producing specialized proteins called antibodies that have the ability to target and/or kill foreign cells. In multiple myeloma, cancerous plasma cells produce abnormal and excessive antibodies that do not have the ability to properly fight infection. In addition, the cancerous plasma cells accumulate in the bone marrow, suppressing the normal formation and function of other cells that are necessary for normal production of blood cells and immune functions. The excessive accumulation of cancer cells in the bone marrow ultimately leads to the formation of tumors in the bone and to the breakdown of bone. Standard treatment for multiple myeloma is chemotherapy with or without stem cell transplantation.
Researchers from the Cleveland Clinic Myeloma Program recently conducted a clinical trial to evaluate a treatment combination including the chemotherapy agents Doxil® and Oncovin®, the steroid dexamethasone, and the anti-angiogenesis agent Thalomid® (DVd-T) in the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma. This trial consisted of 50 patients diagnosed with multiple myeloma who had received no previous therapy, and 50 patients with recurrent multiple myeloma. A complete disappearance of detectable cancer (complete remission) was achieved in 46% of newly diagnosed patients, and 47% of patients with recurrent multiple myeloma. Stabilization of disease or partial anti-cancer responses were achieved in over 80% of patients. The major side effect of this treatment was blood clots.
These researchers concluded that the treatment combination DVd-T appears to be very active in the treatment of both newly diagnosed and recurrent multiple myeloma. Long-term follow-up and direct comparisons to stem cell transplants and newer agents such as Velcade® will truly determine the clinical benefit of this treatment regimen. Patients with multiple myeloma, particularly those who are not eligible for a stem cell transplant, may wish to speak with their physician about the risks and benefits of DVd-T or the participation in a clinical trial evaluating other therapeutic options.
Reference: Agrawal NR, Hussein MA, Elson P, et al. Pegalated Doxorubicin (D), Vincristine (V), Reduced Frequency Dexamethasone (D) and Thalidomide (T) (DVd-T) in Newly diagnosed (Nmm) and Relapse/Refractory (Rmm) Multiple Myeloma Patients. Proceedings of the 45th annual meeting of the American Society of Hematology. Blood 2003;102:237a, Abstract #831.
U of Minn researchers find primary alcohol prevention programs are needed for 'tweens' | EurekAlert! Science News
U of Minn researchers find primary alcohol prevention programs are needed for 'tweens'
Study recommends that prevention programs occur as early as third grade
A study by the University of Minnesota School of Public Health and the University of Florida suggests that 'tweens' should receive alcohol prevention programs prior to sixth grade, when nearly one in six children are already alcohol users.
The study found that adolescents who already use alcohol are less receptive to prevention programs aimed at all students. Intervening at earlier ages, specifically between third and fifth grade, would allow for truly universal anti-alcohol messages that would also provide support for high-risk students.
"Children who use alcohol in sixth grade respond differently to messages about alcohol use than those have not used alcohol," said Keryn Pasch, M.P.H., Ph.D., University of Minnesota School of Public Health and first author of the study. "By sixth grade it's too late; we'll miss many of the at-risk kids."
The study, published in the journal Health Education and Behavior, compared sixth-graders who had used alcohol in the past year to those who had not, in a multi-ethnic, urban sample of more than 4,000 students in 61 Chicago schools. Among this sample, 17 percent had used alcohol within the past year.
The study found that sixth-grade users of alcohol were significantly different from the non-users on almost all risk factors examined. For example, users were more likely to be male, engage in violent or delinquent behavior, and have friends who used alcohol.
Factors such as lacking the confidence to refuse alcohol and failing to perceive and value the negative consequences of alcohol use are critical in at-risk children. "These are important to note because they are amenable to intervention," Pasch said.
Researchers suggest a prevention program prior to sixth grade in which parent involvement is central. Students should receive developmentally-appropriate messages that correct inaccurate perceptions that 'drinking is normal' and that provide tweens with the skills to refuse alcohol. In addition, interventions should include parental involvement in order to help create opportunities for increased parent-child communication and provide parents with the skills to increase monitoring.
"Parents and the general public don't realize how early alcohol use starts," Pasch said. "However, in early intervention, parental involvement is a key factor in delaying alcohol use."
