United Hospital Fund Awards $597,193 in Grants to Improve Health Care Services in New York | United Hospital Fund
United Hospital Fund announced 12 grants, totaling $597,193, for projects to build a more effective health care system for every New Yorker.
The Medicaid Institute/Children's Health
Schuyler Center for Analysis and Advocacy ($61,708)
Family Caregiving/Quality Institute
New Yorkers for Patient and Family Empowerment ($80,000)
Strong evidence shows that the presence of family caregivers has a significant impact on the quality of care and safety of patients in the hospital. Yet research shows that many hospitals have restrictive visiting policies that give families limited access to the bedsides of loved ones during a hospital stay.
Through this project, two nonprofit organizations—New Yorkers for Patient and Family Empowerment and the Institute for Patient- and Family-Centered Care—will work together with a group of New York City hospitals to change visiting policies from those that restrict family presence and participation to policies that are more welcoming and recognize that families are essential members of the care team.
Invitations will be sent to the leaders of all New York City hospitals, and up to 20 hospitals will be selected to participate—with teams of four to five staff from different disciplinary areas. Participating hospitals will assess their current policies and practices, participate in training sessions, receive tested toolkits and guides to help them change policies and practices, and attend an international conference (held in New York City) on the topic. The project's products will include a report on a comparative survey of hospitals' posted "visiting policies" on their websites to measure change that has occurred over the time of the project, both for participating and non-participating hospitals.
UHF Outpatient Antibiotic Stewardship Initiative ($310,180)
Interfaith Medical Center ($30,000)
MediSys Health Network ($60,000)
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center ($15,000)
Mount Sinai Health System ($35,180)
NewYork-Presbyterian/Queens ($60,000)
Northwell Health ($45,000)
Wyckoff Heights Medical Center ($30,000)
Antibiotic misuse and overuse has emerged as an important health care quality and patient safety issue. Studies show that up to 50 percent of antibiotic prescribing is inappropriate, resulting in increased rates of serious infections and contributing to the spread of antibiotic resistance.
Health care institutions can rely on antibiotic stewardship programs to optimize antibiotic prescribing to improve patient care, reduce costs, and slow the spread of antibiotic resistance. Although antibiotic stewardship practices have predominantly been prioritized within inpatient hospital settings, there is a critical need to consider their applicability in outpatient settings, which is the source of 262.5 million courses of antibiotic prescriptions per year, and where formal stewardship programs are much less common.
Through this grant initiative, United Hospital Fund will work with a group of 24 outpatient sites from 8 hospitals and health systems to better understand the primary factors that drive prescribing practices, and to identify appropriate interventions for the sites to test and implement to improve the appropriateness of antibiotic prescribing. UHF will work with participants to analyze prescribing practices for a sub-set of adult patients with acute respiratory infections, as this is a major condition in which antibiotics are misused. The practices will use a set of structured data collection tools, to be developed by UHF and an advisory group (composed of infectious disease physicians, pharmacists, and outpatient clinicians) that will be formed as part of the initiative. UHF will engage two key infectious disease physicians, from two of the participating hospitals, to provide clinical expertise to help shape this effort.
Data & Society Research Institute ($70,000)
Medicare Rights Center ($75,305)
To enhance organizations' capacity to promote the interests of consumers within new health system transformation models in New York State, and help consumers become better informed and active participants in shaping new models. Medicare Rights Center will assess the care landscape, including payment and delivery system innovations and next steps for education and policy.
In New York State and across the country, the way health care is paid for and delivered to patients and consumers is changing. And these changes affect the relationships and dynamics between patients, providers, and payers in ways that are complex.
This project aims to improve the capacity of the Medicare Rights Center and other consumer–oriented stakeholders to promote the rights and needs of consumers—particularly older consumers with disabilities, the Medicare population—to become better informed and active participants in shaping new models.
The Medicare Rights Center will convene a workgroup to develop criteria for assessing New York's health system transformation landscape and will develop plans for educating consumers about—and engaging them in—new models. The project team will also work with policymakers to help ensure that new models are responsive to consumer needs. The project will culminate in a report on New York's Medicare-related health system transformation landscape.
RSNA: Healthcare reform means an uphill battle for radiology
November 29, 2011 | Trimed Staff | Healthcare Economics & Policy
CHICAGO—The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) will likely mean severe cuts to imaging, a reduction in the advancement of imaging technology and pressure on radiologists to work for hospitals under an accountable care organization (ACO) model, according to a presentation on Nov. 28 at the 97th Scientific Assembly and Annual Meeting of the Radiology Society of North America (RSNA).
Bernard F. King, Jr., MD, of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., explained that the PPACA came when it did as a result of rising costs, a rising number of uninsured people and a perception that insurance practices needed reform. In regards to cutting costs, government officials believed they could make cuts to imaging services without angering their constituents. In contrast, cuts to primary care payments are likely upset constituents, according to King.
One change that has already occurred is the coding for abdomen and pelvis CT scans. As of Jan. 1, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) combined the codes for these services, which severely cut reimbursement, as part of a mandate that says services performed together at least 75 percent of the time must use one CPT code.
King said that similar reductions will be likely as reform continues to be implemented. The PPACA gives the secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services the ability to identify codes that are misvalued, which will target codes characterized by fast growth and new technologies.
"The bottom line is what CMS will view as misvalued codes is code word for imaging and the high reimbursement for imaging that's perceived by the government," said King.
Reform will also mean the spread of the ACO model, and with it a pressure for radiologists to be employed by hospitals. The problem for imaging under an ACO is that the system of incentives is focused on the primary care doctor and leaves radiology out of the mix, said King. Shared savings will go to primary care physicians and the ability to manage image services will be weakened, as will technological innovation.
The U.S. Supreme Court will play a major role as it has announced it will rule on the PPACA in its current term, hearing arguments in spring 2012 with a decision likely in June 2012. King explained that the court will focus on four key points:
The constitutionality of the individual insurance mandate;
The constitutionality of the whole law should the individual mandate be severed;
The ability of the court to even hear the case under a law which bars courts from hearing cases on taxes before they are collected; and
The ability of the federal government to force states to expand their share of Medicaid costs at the risk of funding cuts if they refuse.
Should the law survive, King said a major focus of reform will be on comparative effectiveness research, and this is where imaging will have an opportunity to show that it can be a tool to save money.
"We just have to focus our efforts with the RSNA and with the American College of Radiology on looking at comparative effectiveness research and proving to those bean counters, to the government especially, and to insurance companies that imaging can actually reduce healthcare costs," said King.
Review of successful osh benchmarki... by European Agency f... 2385 views
Pan-European opinion poll on occupa... by European Agency f... 179975 views
Pan-European poll on occupational s... by European Agency f... 87293 views
Plan de contingencia by Carlos Méndez 190 views
Pacote Q3 Completo by Eduardo Abbas 171 views
A presentation by Dr Christa Sedlatschek, Director of EU-OSHA
Conference: Active Ageing: "From research to action oriented policies" Florence 14 March 2017
LUCIANO DAVID , rls banca del Piemonte at uilca
1. Safety and health at work is everyone's concern. It's good for you. It's good for business. "Toward an active working society: a European global perspective" Dr Christa Sedlatschek Director Florence 14 March 2017 Active Ageing: "From research to action oriented policies"
2. 2 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Some health and safety challenges  28 different OSH systems  Changes in the policy and regulatory context  Economic and demographic change  Micro and small enterprises  New technologies, new forms of employment, new ways of working  New and emerging risks  Work related diseases (psychosocial risks, MSDs, cancer, etc.)
3. 3 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Reference to the EU Strategic Framework challenges or very similar description Challenge 1: Improving the implementation record (particularly by supporting SMEs and micro enterprises) Challenge 2: Improving the prevention of work-related diseases by tackling existing, new and emerging risks Challenge 3: Tackling demographic change Austria Austria Austria Cyprus Cyprus Cyprus[1] Czech Republic Czech Republic Denmark Denmark Estonia Estonia Finland Finland France France France Germany Germany Germany Ireland Ireland Ireland Malta Malta Netherlands Netherlands Netherlands Poland Poland Portugal Portugal Portugal Slovakia Slovakia Slovakia Spain Spain Spain Sweden Sweden Sweden UK UK
4. 4 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Safer and healthier work at any age OSH in the context of an ageing workforce Financed by the European Parliament Implemented by EU-OSHA 2013-2016 Objectives: Improving knowledge of existing policies and initiatives addressing the ageing of the workforce and how they have been implemented in the MSs and EFTA countries Providing reliable information and analysis for policy development in the area of OSH, including rehabilitation and return-to-work policies Supporting the exchange of good practice at company level
5. 5 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Integrated policy frameworks Social policies Pension reforms: Raising retirement age Limiting access to early retirement and disability pensions Employment Promoting employment of older workers and employability Training and lifelong learning Targeted support to older workers OSH Sustainable Work Working time arrangements Work-life balance Vocational rehabilitation and return-to- work Public health Workplace Health Promotion Work-oriented medical rehabilitation Active and healthy ageing Equal treatment Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of age and disability Maintaining employability & fostering work ability of all workers Safer and healthier work at any age Policies to address the challenges of an ageing workforce Elements of a successful policy Education Life-long learning Vocational education
6. 6 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Elements of a successful policy  Adopting a life course approach to OSH and/or ageing: •Recognition of the needs of all age groups  Implementing the policy: •Different types of measures (legal, political, financial, technical) •Systematic approach: establishment of objectives and targets, establishment of action plans, monitoring and evaluation  Engaging stakeholders and raising awareness: •Developing a common understanding and a common language (e.g. 'Sustainable employability') •Putting in place platforms for coordination of action and exchange of experience National policies to address the challenges of an ageing workforce
7. 7 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Rehabilitation and return-to-work systems •21% of the working population suffer from a long- standing illness or health problem. •Total average time spent on sick leave increases with age. •Consequences of long-term sickness absence on workers, employers and society. •Measures to facilitate rehabilitation and return-to-work to avoid long-term sickness absence, work disability or early retirement.
8. 8 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Rehabilitation and return-to-work systems integrated into broader policy frameworks for sustainable working lives Integrated legal and policy framework •Return to work system inscribed in legislation and based on coordination across relevant policy areas. Inclusive systems •Rehabilitation services and return-to-work programmes target all employees. Early intervention •Avoiding sickness absence. Early workability assessment. Maintaining a link with the workplace during the sickness absence. Tailored approach •Individual support plan. Workplace adaptations. Vocational and social rehabilitation. Reintegration into the workplace. Coordination mechanisms •Enhanced role of employer. Case management. Coordination at all stages. Interdisciplinary teams. Rehabilitation and return-to-work systems Elements of a successful system
9. 9 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Safer and healthier work at any age Success factors for return to work  Inclusive systems to target all workers with health problems −Broader scope than disability management  Intervention already at an early stage  Interventions tailored to the workers' needs  Case manager  Assessment of work capacity, individual support plan  Targeted workplace interventions  Obligations and responsibilities for employers and workers  Coordination at policy level (cross policy), system level and workplace level (GPs, OSH specialists, rehabilitation service providers, case manager, employer…)  Financial, technical support to SMEs  Economic drivers before receiving disability or early retirement benefit  Raising awareness about the benefits of RTW
10. 10 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Safer and healthier work at any age Success factors at Company Level  Workplace level • Life course approach, addressing different needs of young and old, intergenerational interaction. • Holistic approach, taking into account factors beyond OSH that have an impact on OSH (e.g. based on work ability concept). • Workplace Health Promotion. • Age/diversity sensitive risk assessment, gender issues. • HR policies supporting OSH management (working time, training). • Leadership. • Social dialogue / workers participation.
11. 11 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Age management - elements
12. 12 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Key strength: Network of partners Healthy Workplaces Campaign • National focal points • Social partners • Official campaign partners • Media partners • EU institutions and networks
13. 13 www.healthy-workplaces.eu Key objectives  Promote sustainable work and healthy ageing from the beginning of working life  Highlight the importance of prevention throughout working life  Assist employers and workers (including in SMEs) by providing information and tools for managing OSH in the context of an ageing workforce  Facilitate information exchange and good practice  https://youtube/9bodWzkkcCU
We're a service that helps you order treatments online from UK-registered doctors with free, discreet, to-your-door deliveries.
Menu
Trustpilot
Home
»
Chlamydia Treatment
»
Chlamydia Symptoms in Women
Chlamydia Symptoms In Women
What are the symptoms of chlamydia in women?
Chlamydia Symptoms In Women
What are the symptoms of chlamydia in women?
Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted infection. Chlamydia in women often remains symptomless and it can go undetected for a long time. Which symptoms does female chlamydia cause and how can you diagnose it? Find out how to spot the infection early on and stay safe.
Order Chlamydia Test Kit
Contents
Which symptoms are common in women?
What does chlamydia discharge in women look like?
I am experiencing bleeding between periods - Do I have chlamydia?
Chlamydia and cervicitis
Can chlamydia cause PID symptoms?
How quickly does chlamydia turn into PID?
Bleeding during sex - a sign of chlamydia?
Does chlamydia increase the risk of an ectopic pregnancy?
Chlamydia during pregnancy - what are the risks?
Which symptoms are common in women?
The most common symptoms of chlamydia in women are:
unusual vaginal discharge
pain or burning sensation during urination
frequent urination
These symptoms typically appear within 1 - 3 weeks after you have been infected by a partner. However, the majority of women who catch the infection never experience any symptoms. Often, they are unaware that they are infected. As a result, chlamydia continues to be a very common sexually transmitted infection, especially amongst young men and women.
Don’t rely on symptoms to tell whether or not you have chlamydia. If you have had unprotected sex with a partner who has not recently tested negative you should get tested. You can either visit a local GUM clinic or order your test kit online.
Back to top
Back to top
What does chlamydia discharge in women look like?
The most well-known chlamydia symptom is unusual discharge. It is normal to experience discharge from the vagina on a regular basis but if you notice any changes, you ought to get tested.
Discharge caused by chlamydia does not always look the same, so any change you notice could be a sign of infection. If your discharge changes in smell, colour or quantity you should always consult a doctor.
Back to top
Back to top
I am experiencing bleeding between periods - Do I have chlamydia?
If a chlamydia infection progresses and causes cervicitis or pelvic inflammatory disease, it can also cause bleeding between periods. If you experience spotting or bleeding between periods and have not recently started or changed your hormonal contraceptive, this could be a sign of an underlying problem like chlamydia.
Back to top
Back to top
Chlamydia and cervicitis
Cervicitis is a common condition, which can have various causes. Cervicitis is an inflammation of the cervix and it can be caused by an allergic reaction, injury or irritation. It can also be caused by chlamydia.
Typical symptoms of cervicitis are:
unusual bleeding
bleeding after sex
grey or pale yellow discharge
pain during sex
problems with urination
pain during urination
frequent urination
If cervicitis is not treated, it can develop into pelvic inflammatory disease.
Back to top
Back to top
Can chlamydia cause PID symptoms?
If you have chlamydia for a long time, you can develop pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) as a result. This happens, when the chlamydia infection spreads and affects your womb, fallopian tubes or ovaries.
PID can cause the following symptoms:
abdominal pain
pain during sex
pain during urination
bleeding between periods
unusually painful or heavy periods
unusual discharge (may be green or yellow)
PID can also sometimes cause severe symptoms, such as severe pain in the abdomen, fever, nausea and vomiting.
In many cases, PID does not cause any obvious symptoms. However, this doesn’t mean that it is harmless. PID can cause irreparable damage to your reproductive organs and make you infertile if it is not treated.
You can prevent getting PID as a result of an STI by getting tested for sexually transmitted infections like chlamydia and gonorrhea on a regular basis and by using a condom every time you have sex.
PID is treated with antibiotics, which are either taken by mouth or given by injection. The course usually lasts for 14 days.
Back to top
Back to top
How quickly does chlamydia turn into PID?
There is no general rule of thumb to explain how long it takes for chlamydia to turn into PID. Many women who have chlamydia never develop PID, whereas others might do so within a few weeks or months after getting infected. You should see a doctor as soon as you notice any symptoms of PID and get checked for chlamydia if you believe you could have it.
Back to top
Back to top
Bleeding during sex - a sign of chlamydia?
Bleeding during sex can be a sign of cervicitis. As chlamydia is a risk factor for cervicitis, it could indicate that you have chlamydia. However, there could be other reasons why you may experience unusual bleeding, for example injury or a side effect from your contraceptive pill.
Back to top
Back to top
Does chlamydia increase the risk of an ectopic pregnancy?
As PID can cause scarring to your fallopian tubes, it also increases your risk of an ectopic pregnancy. An ectopic pregnancy occurs, when an egg develops outside the womb. It is a very dangerous condition which needs to be diagnosed and treated as early as possible. As chlamydia increases your risk of PID, it also increases your risk of an ectopic pregnancy.
Back to top
Back to top
Chlamydia during pregnancy - what are the risks?
In the UK, all pregnant women are invited to a routine chlamydia test at the beginning of their pregnancy. Chlamydia screening is highly recommended for women who are pregnant or planning for a baby, as chlamydia can be passed to the infant during childbirth.
Although the infection is relatively harmless in adults, it can have life-threatening consequences for babies as it can cause pneumonia. It is also possible for the baby to develop chlamydial conjunctivitis (an eye infection) as a result of being exposed to the bacteria during birth. Chlamydial conjunctivitis is one of the main preventable causes for blindness in children.
If you are diagnosed with chlamydia during pregnancy, you will be given an antibiotic treatment to clear the infection before the birth and protect your baby.
Back to top
Back to top
Order Chlamydia Test Kit
×
Sign up to our newsletter!
Sign up to receive personalised discounts, vouchers, news and more in our monthly newsletter.
Email Address
Sign Up
I confirm I am over 16 years old
By clicking Sign up you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions
×
Thank you
for signing up!
You’ll be added to our mailing list once you confirm your email. Please check your inbox for our verification email.
Nipah Virus: Here's Everything You Need to Know About This Deadly Disease | LatestLY
Nipah Virus: Here's Everything You Need to Know About This Deadly Disease
Health Wellness IANS May 26, 2018 10:40 AM IST
New Delhi, May 26: Simple good hygiene practices such as frequent hand washing and cooking food properly before consuming can help you avoid contracting the brain-damaging Nipah virus which has claimed 12 lives in Kerala till now and led to quarantining of at least 40 others, health experts suggest. The Nipah virus is a zoonotic disease that is naturally transmitted from vertebrate animals to humans, while human-to-human transmission has also been documented.
First identified among pig farmers in Malaysia, the disease also surfaced in Siliguri, West Bengal, in 2001 and again in 2007. Historically, the virus had largely remained in a cluster, meaning it was mostly confined to an area, and affected those that came in close contact with the patients, the experts said. The latest outbreak in India has so far affected mainly four districts of Kerala -- Kozhikode, and its neighbouring districts of Malappuram, Kannur and Wayanad. People in other states do not have much to worry unless they need to travel to the affected areas or come in contact with someone who has contracted the virus.
"All the previous such epidemics were reported to be in clusters and historical evidence shows no simultaneous outbreaks," said Vidya Menon, Clinical Professor at the Department of Medicine, Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi.
"So people who come in close contact of the patients are usually the ones who acquire the disease. If that contact group increases or travel to other places, the disease is likely to spread," Menon said.
Nipah virus can be transmitted by infected pigs, or by fruit bats, through their secretions of saliva, urine or faeces. The other mode of transmission is human to human, through body secretions and respiratory secretions. Contracting Nipah causes an upper respiratory infection, leading to fever, body ache, breathlessness and cough.
"There is no need to panic, but if you have symptoms similar to this or if you have visited the state recently, visit a doctor at the earliest," said Suranjit Chatterjee, Senior Consultant - Internal Medicine at the Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi. Depending upon the exposure to the virus, it can also proceed to further complication like Encephalitis -- inflammation of the brain. This can result in mental confusions and deteriorate to coma.
"The progression is very severe. While the incubation period is long for some, on an average in 90 percent of cases, the disease manifests itself within two weeks of exposure to the virus," Menon said.
"Those infected should be isolated for at least 10-15 days, till the virulence of the virus settles and our immune system also starts fighting," said Vikas Maurya, Head of Department - Pulmonolgy, Fortis Hospital - Shalimar Bagh, New Delhi.
There is no real treatment but supportive care is given to the affected patients, which means treating the symptoms differently.
"For example, people suffering from fever are treated for it, for those with breathlessness support is provided to them with artificial ventilators, and for those with seizures or convulsions anti-epileptic drugs are given as a support to the brain," Menon said.
The Kerala government has now recommended using Ribavarin -- an anti-viral -- as a life-saving measure. It is not a proven treatment, but it is approved because of a few studies that have proved the anti-virals benefits.
"Beginning Thursday, the Kerala government has recommended using Ribavarin -- an anti-viral -- but only in proven cases," Menon said.
Lauding the efforts by the government officials, Menon said, "The situation seems to be under control, the state public health department has done a remarkable job in containing the disease so far. There is no need to panic." Besides maintaining hygiene, the experts suggested avoiding eating fruits that have any paw marks on it or is contaminated. Food should be properly cooked before consuming. Restricting mobility to and fro to the affected areas can curtail the virus up to some extent, Chatterjee suggested. "If you are travelling to the infected area, use a general mask. While coughing close your mouth with a handkerchief or a cough on your sleeve, wash hands properly, and maintain hygiene," Menon said.
Tags: Cautions Kerala disease Nipah Virus Nipah virus causes Nipah virus contagious Nipah virus treatment
Google Year in Search 2018: Statue of Unity, Karnataka Election Results Among Top 5 Searched News Items in India
Our top priority is the health and well-being of our students, families, and staff. We continue to be highly attentive to the requirements and guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), regional and local authorities including the Washington State Department of Health (DOH) and Public Health – Seattle and King County, as well as the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI). As you are aware, there is no way to fully guard against transmission, but with strict adherence to the following health and safety measures, we hope to keep risk to a minimum.
All students, faculty, staff, and visitors are required to wear a face covering at all times, indoors and outdoors, while on campus. This protocol is in accordance with the requirements of the DOH and OSPI. Refer to the Washington State Department of Health Guidance on Cloth Face Coverings for more information. If an individual does not have a face mask, one will be provided by the School.
Students and adults will wash hands frequently including when they arrive at school, before meals or snacks, after outside time, after going to the bathroom, after nose blowing or sneezing, and before leaving to go home. Hand washing stations will be installed at school entrances. If soap and water are not readily available, hand sanitizer may be used.
Students, faculty, staff, and visitors will practice physical distancing as much as possible in classrooms and other common areas, and during activities. Floor markings will designate 6 foot spaces and direct traffic flow in halls throughout the school building. Seating/desks in classrooms will face the same direction and be 6 feet apart. Plexiglass barriers have been installed in areas where it is difficult to maintain proper physical distancing. Students' and teachers' ability to social distance will depend on students’ ages and developmental and physical abilities.
Ashwagandha has been used for centuries in Ayurveda and for good reason. This wonderful apoptogenic root helps our bodies combat the ill effects of stress and regulates cortisol. This means that however stress manifests in your body, Ashwagandha helps to bring your body back into equilibrium.
For example, if stress is giving you insomnia, Ashwagandha helps you sleep. If stress is making you feel anxious, Ashwagandha helps you to feel calm. If stress is causing you to be more prone to infections, Ashwagandha strengthens your immunity.
A popular herb from the mint family, Lemon Balm is an aromatic ingredient that is often used in teas and tinctures to increase calmness and alertness all while relieving mental stress.
Lemon balm also has the added benefit of being rich in antioxidants, helping to keep our bodies protected from free radicals, which our bodies are more exposed to when we’re stressed.
Passion Flower, a beautiful purple and white wild flower, has been used in traditional and modern natural medicine alike, as a solution to calm nerves, treat anxiety and depression, and cure insomnia.
Usually taken in the form of teas, tinctures, infusions, and extracts, Passionflower promotes relaxation and helps the body to prepare for a good nights sleep thanks to its gentle sedative effect.
A Hidden Truth: Hospital Faucets Are Often Home to Slime and Biofilm – Global Health News Wire
Sinks and faucets tested at the University of Michigan Health System revealed slime and biofilm.
Researchers at the University of Michigan Health System assessed eight different designs across four intensive care units to determine how dirty sinks and faucets really are. They found that a shallow depth of the sink bowl enabled potentially contaminated water to splash onto patient care items, healthcare worker hands, and into patient care spaces – at times at a distance of more than four feet from the sink itself.
"The inside of faucets where you can't clean were much dirtier than expected," said study author Kristen VanderElzen, MPH, CIC. "Potentially hazardous germs in and around sinks present a quandary for infection preventionists, since having accessible sinks for hand washing is so integral to everything we promote. Acting on the information we found, we have undertaken a comprehensive faucet replacement program across our hospital."
"As we learn more about the often stealthy ways in which germs can spread inside healthcare facilities, infection preventionists play an increasingly important role in healthcare facility design – including in the selection of sink and faucet fixtures – as this study illustrates," said 2019 APIC President Karen Hoffmann, RN, MS, CIC, FSHEA, FAPIC. "Because the healthcare environment can serve as a source of resistant organisms capable of causing dangerous infections, an organization's infection prevention and control program must ensure that measures are in place to reduce the risk of transmission from environmental sources and monitor compliance with those measures."
Back2News - Latest News and Updates from all over India, World Wide In India, diabetes is fast becoming a disease of the poor
diabetes : Two years ago, 49-year-old Ramachandran, a resident of Kolkata, underwent a regular medical check-up and was told that he was pre-diabetic. Even though he changed his diet to control his blood sugar levels, after a year he found that he was losing weight unusually and that his vision was blurring.
"I was also feeling a burning sensation while passing urine," he said. "I found minor cuts and bruises in my private parts."
In September last year, Ramachandran was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. Ramachandran is an engineer from a middle-income background. It is among people like Ramachandran that diabetes is on the rise.
Diabetes has long been a disease of affluence but small regional studies in recent years have indicated that, in India, it has been slowly spreading among lower income groups. However, an ongoing national survey of diabetes called the Indian Council of Medical Research – India Diabetes or simply ICMR-INDIAB study finds that many more people from middle-income and poor communities are becoming diabetic.
The ICMR-INDIAB study is the largest national representative of diabetes and includes data from more than 57,000 people across 15 states, both in rural and urban areas. The study represents 363·7 million people or 51% of India's adult population. Similar previous studies have been only regional with small sample sizes, low response rates and with varied diagnostic criteria. For this study, the researchers considered each person's bodyweight, height, waist circumference and blood pressure and used glucose tolerance tests to diagnose diabetes and pre-diabetes.
"We have also provided the first-ever data on the status of the diabetes epidemic in the North-Eastern states of India," said Dr RM Anjana, vice-president of the Madras Diabetes Research Foundation and the lead author of the study published on Wednesday in the journal The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology.
The overall prevalence of diabetes across the 15 states studied was 7.3%. The rates varied between states, from 4.3% in Bihar to 13.6% in Chandigarh. The overall prevalence of pre-diabetes was 10.3% as per the criteria set by the World Health Organisation. Men were more likely to be diabetic than women. Almost half of the people enrolled in the study were previously undiagnosed and were thus not aware of their diabetes until they were tested.
On an average, the researchers found diabetes to be twice as common in urban areas at 11.2% compared to the rural areas at 5.2%. However, in the urban areas of more economically advanced states, diabetes was higher among people even from low socio-economic backgrounds – a transition that is already common in high-income countries.
"This trend is a matter of great concern because it suggests that the diabetes epidemic is spreading to individuals who can least afford to pay for its management," said Anjana. "The peculiarity about this epidemic in India is the relatively young age of onset compared to the Western world."
The study suggests that the age of onset is in the age group of 25-34 years, which is at least two decades earlier than in developed countries.
People living in urban areas have access to diabetes care services and can afford the associated out-of-pocket expenditure. However, people living in semi-urban and rural areas do not have access to diabetes centres or clinics that provide comprehensive care. Given that people in rural areas and poorer communities in cities are unable to access care earlier, they would be more prone to advanced complications such as renal failure and blindness due to retinopathy.
According to Anjana, the changing lifestyle of people even among the middle-class and the poor in big cities like Kolkata might be the reason for this demographic shift in the diabetes epidemic.
"Those who were walking to work can now afford to take a bus or buy a motorbike and they are discouraged from being physically active," she said. "Also, as affordable fast-food and sweetened beverages become more and easily available, people are encouraged to consume these in large quantities putting their health at risk."
Kerala, the state with the highest reported prevalence of diabetes in India so far, has recently imposed a fat-tax. Countries like the United Kingdom are imposing sugar taxes on sweetened food and beverages. Can such taxes help reverse the diabetes epidemic in India?
Anjana said it might help but only to a some extent. "It would be the steps taken by individuals for their own health and the government's for their citizens that will help," she said. "People should adopt a healthier lifestyle such as, consuming a healthy diet and increasing physical activity."
Minimising television and screen time, giving breaks to sedentary behavior, using the stairs instead of an elevator, eating more fruits and vegetables, and cutting down junk-food all go a long way in preventing diabetes.
Anjana also recommends that central and state governments make policy changes and investments to control the burden of non-communicable diseases like diabetes. These measures include ensuring the supply of nutritious food and creating public spaces for people to exercise. The National Program for Control of Diabetes, Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke, which has been rolled out across the country, could also help improve diabetes awareness levels at a national level.
The establishment of cost-effective prevention programmes could help, according to Dr Vijay Viswanathan of MV Hospital for Diabetes in Chennai. "The central government can take up a separate National Diabetes Control Programme and the state governments can improve diabetes care in all rural sub-centres and public health centres by making glucose monitors available and having a diabetes clinic once a week," he said. "They can also have a good referral pattern for people with complications to their state-run hospitals at the district level."
Dr Thaksaphon Thamarangsi, director of the department of noncommunicable diseases and environmental health at the WHO regional office in New Delhi said that no single policy or intervention can ensure prevention of non-communicable diseases including diabetes. "It calls for a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach, in which all sectors systematically consider the health impact of policies in trade, agriculture, finance transport, education and urban planning," he said.
Diabetes and its complications cause substantial economic loss to the patients, their families, and to health systems and national economies through direct medical costs and loss of work and wages. "The fight to curb or control diabetes must continue," said Thamarangsi.
The ICMR-NDIAB study will continue to gather diabetes information from remaining states and overall data for India might be available within a few years, said Anjana.
This study also highlights the high prevalence of CADRs due to antiretroviral drug as pediatric retroviral infection is comparatively high in the community[23] and immunologically suppressed children are more risky for developing adverse reactions. The present study has few limitations. Being a single-centered study from Southeast India, the results cannot be extrapolated to other hospitals from a different setting. Over the period of 1 year, CADR profile due to various drugs was monitored and the final sample size was reached. Although we monitored all CADRs, there is a possibility of cases being missed out due to patient's interhospital transfer, against medical advice, etc. Hence, our study may not reflect the actual burden of CADRs. Since it is an observational study, we could not follow-up patients for temporal relationship to assess causality and preventability. Thus, we recommend further research and multicentric study to explore other aspects of CADRs.
Timely diagnosis of the condition and identification of the offending drug and its omission form the cornerstone of management to prevent serious outcomes. A high index of suspicion should be maintained to make a rapid diagnosis and in managing children with severe CADRs to prevent morbidity and mortality.
