These digital biomarkers support the development of a wide range of disease/therapeutic specific models including heart failure, pain, myocardial infarction, respiratory conditions, neurology, and oncology.
Biovitals™ Therapeutics Utility: The influence of specific interventions on an individual’s physiology can be not only quite variable but also unpredictable. In certain complex conditions that require combinations of medications, the drug-drug interactions, the drug-disease interactions, and adverse side effects can also be serious and unpredictable. Furthermore, some medications and/or interventions need to be closely monitored and/or titrated to find the optimal doses, time and frequency of administering the intervention or combinations, and effectiveness durations.
Biovitals™ therapeutic management system uses continuous physiology and other patient-generated data to monitor and quantify the effect of the prescribed therapy and side effects on patients while empowering clinicians with information to make better therapeutic decisions.
RhythmAnalytics™: RhythmAnalytics™ is a cloud-based platform that incorporates deep learning models trained by using over 2 Million annotated ECG data from actual patients to deliver unmatched accuracy in detecting dozens of cardiac arrhythmias. RhythmAnalytics™ can be integrated using its cloud-based APIs or directly into the cardiac monitoring device, making client integration flexible, simple and easy. The analytics engine is designed to process ECG data from Episodic monitors, Holter monitors or Mobile Cardiac Telemetry (MCT).
RhythmAnalytics™ transforms a labor intensive and inefficient process into a high-yield diagnostic tool ensuring high availability, freeing up physicians and technicians for more complex tasks. The platform is currently being trained to detect cardiac arrhythmias using PPG signals.
With the prevalence of heart failure along with co-morbidities, patients struggle to manage their condition and adhere to their disease management regime.Also,clinicians and care teams do not have timeline information about patients’ decompensation and lack tools to better manage them.One in four heart failure patients aged over 65 years is re-hospitalized within 30-days accounting to the overall global cost of heart failure to more than 108 billion annually.
An AI-empowered personalized health analytics platform that optimizes engagement and uses physiology to predict heart failure exacerbation days before a critical event. It leverages robust physiology and bio-psychological analytics to identify deviating/contributing factors along with rules and deep content to generate personalized insights. It also enables personalized triggers and recommendations to empower patients to take control of their condition and helping clinicians monitor the effects of therapy and provide personalized care.
Kuldeep Singh Rajput, Founder, and Chief Executive Officer:Kuldeep is an active member of the healthcare innovation and entrepreneurship community in Singapore, with a specific interest in technology-enabled healthcare innovation. During his Ph.D. studies at the National University of Singapore (NUS), he was building bioelectronics implants, which aim to control biological processes and treat diseases by modulating electric impulses. Prior to moving to Singapore, he was a researcher at MIT Media Lab, where he was working on building diagnostic algorithms for cardiac arrhythmias and sleep apnoea in partnership with Massachusetts General Hospital. Kuldeep has been invited to speak at some prestigious events on how they are augmenting personalized care using digital therapeutics at TEDx, American College of Cardiology Conference (ACC 2018), SwissRe –Health Monitoring in Insurance, HIMS, etc.

Businesses across the seafood industry are invited to join online webinars, hosted by Seafish on 27 August 2020, to find out how they can get involved in its new consumer marketing initiative.
The public body that supports the UK seafood industry is preparing to launch a new consumer brand on 1 October, which will kick-start a 20-year drive to positively influence people’s attitudes towards seafood.
‘Love Seafood’ by Seafish will be introduced during the webinars, allowing businesses to hear from the Seafish marketing team on the initiative’s vision and strategy as well as the ways that businesses can get involved. Attendees will also get a first look at the brand’s visual identity.
Neck Pain in Gilbert, AZ - Advanced Physical Medicine
Advanced Physical Medicine specializes as Doctors in Neck Pain in Gilbert Arizona. The Cervical spine, muscles, and nerve tissues surrounding your neck may be affected by a number of degenerative issues, injuries or postural problems. It's no wonder that most of the individuals turn towards pain relief drugs and medications totally overlooking the very fact that these are not the only treatments available for obtaining relief.
The cervical spine forms the most fragile and vulnerable part of the vertebral column regardless of the fact that neck bears the weight of the head at all the times. The most common neck injuries include whiplash and auto accident injuries. Sharp and sudden motions can often dislocate the facet joints which articulate with the cervical vertebrae. This also renders normal joint muscle impossible.
Whatever be the underlying cause of your neck pain, you must never go for any kind of risky major surgery. Drugs, no doubt, can provide you temporary relief but they have their own side effects too. Our licensed chiropractors at Advanced Physical Medicine, Gilbert, Arizona, will provide you the best and the personalized treatment for neck pain by addressing the underlying reason. The doctors at Gilbert, Arizona will fail no chance at identifying any vertebrae or disc abnormalities and will definitely administer targeted chiropractic adjustments in order to normalize the cervical alignment, relieving muscle strain as well as resolving joint stiffness.
Always bear in mind that depending upon the neck pain manifested, our team of chiropractors at Advanced Physical Medicine, Gilbert, Arizona might recommend multiple types of treatment. For example, non-invasive spinal decompression may help treat bulging or herniated discs in the neck, whereas massage therapy reduces inflammation in injured neck muscles. Moreover, physical therapy works ahead by restoring neck function and strength. The experienced chiropractors at Advanced Physical Medicine, Gilbert, Arizona, may even offer personalized counselling on lifestyle as well as postural changes for keeping the neck of the patients in a healthy state.
You must remember that your natural neck pain treatment begins with an appropriate evaluation. Schedule your appointment today at Advanced Physical Medicine, Gilbert, Arizona and feel the difference.
March is Kidney Health Awareness Month; a time for raising awareness about kidney health and sharing facts about ways to keep your kidneys healthy.
"According to the National Kidney Foundation (NKF), one in three Americans is at risk for kidney disease due to diabetes, high blood pressure or a family history of kidney failure," said Doris U. Theune, GNP-BC Sheboygan Internal Medicine Associates. Sadly, more than 30 million Americans already have a kidney disease, and most don't even know it because there are no symptoms until the disease has progressed.
You have two kidneys that are bean-shaped organs about the size of your fist; they are located at either side of your spine near the middle of your back. Many think the kidneys are only responsible for producing urine, but they have many important functions in your body. For instance, when your kidneys are functioning normally, they accumulate urine and dispose of it through the urinary tract. Excess water and toxins from metabolic processes, along with the urine, are removed from the body as if through a filter. In addition, the acid-base balance is regulated by the kidneys to prevent excess acidity in the blood. The kidneys are also important for regulating your blood pressure by producing hormones. In addition, kidneys influence the amount of calcium in the blood and the production of vitamin D needed in mineralization that provides bone stability.
Kidneys remove excess body water and waste 24/7
Healthy kidneys clean the blood about 300 times a day
This translates to approximately 1,500 liters of blood passes through the kidneys each day "Because chronic kidney disease is a long and typically slow process where your kidneys gradually lose function, you may not notice any symptoms," said Theune. The disease can take years to go from below normal kidney function to end stage kidney failure where dialysis or a kidney transplant is needed. "When someone is diagnosed with chronic kidney disease there is permanent damage, that is normally caused by diabetes, high blood pressure (hypertension), various kidney tissue infections and/or excessive use of some medications that may reduce long-term kidney function," said Theune. He added, "Since it may be possible to slow down the progression of the disease in its early stages it is important to get an early diagnosis and work closely with your doctor to find the right treatment." Symptoms "In its earliest stage you may not notice any symptoms however, blood tests such as the BUN, creatinine and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) are the most accurate ways to diagnose chronic kidney disease and its stage," said Theune. The warning signs of kidney disease are not always obvious, especially in the early stages but here are some possible symptoms you may notice.
Feeling cold and tired Diagnosis "Basic metabolic panel blood tests can reveal the amount of waste products such as urea, creatinine and nitrogen in the blood that indicate kidney disease and its stage," said Theune. The creatinine level indicates how well the tiny filters in the kidneys are doing their job in filtering out wastes. Your doctor will use the results of your serum creatinine test to calculate your Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR). "Your GFR indicates the level of your kidneys' function. If your GFR falls below 30, your doctor may run a few more tests and/or begin appropriate treatment," said Theune.
Most people do not have symptoms of decreased kidney function until the GFR is 20–30, and they do not feel sick until it is 10–15. A GFR below 15 indicates that you need to start a treatment for kidney failure, which includes dialysis or kidney transplant. "Knowing your GFR is as important as knowing blood pressure numbers," said Theune. "And remember the earlier kidney disease is detected the better your outcome will be."
The progression of chronic kidney disease may be reduced with lifestyle changes such as:
Eating a healthy lower protein and lower salt diet
Most importantly, Theune recommends that you talk to your doctor honestly about the following. • Your lifestyle: diet, alcohol and tobacco consumption, physical activity • Medications or supplements you take. • Your full health history • Speak up about any medical conditions you and any family member has had relative to kidney failure.
Registered Nurse Supervisor 2nd shift - Beatrice Job in Beatrice, NE | Careerlink
Registered Nurse Supervisor 2nd shift - Beatrice
What are you waiting for? Join the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services in "Helping People Live Better Lives." If passion, integrity, and building relationships is the work culture you are seeking, then DHHS is where you belong. Beatrice is looking for a RN Supervisor for 2nd Shift with communication and time management skills. Apply and join #TeamDHHS today!
Monday - Friday, 2nd shift - 2:30 pm to 11:00 pm. Weekends as scheduled.
Provide direct and indirect professional nursing care. Monitor health status of individuals. Provide supervision and oversight to staff LPN's and RN's in all aspects of individuals care and services. Provide in-service training for direct support and nursing staff. Act as liaison between nursing staff and the Medical Services Dept. Respond to emergency situations. Provide direct nursing care as needed, ie, medication administration, enteral feedings, and special treatments as needed. Participate as an active interdisciplinary team member. Perform related nursing paperwork as assigned. Monitor environment for safety, sanitation and infection control. Ensure compliance with all policies/procedures,State/Federal Regulations
REQUIREMENTS: A current license to practice as a Registered Nurse in Nebraska or authority based on the Nurse Licensure Compact to practice as a registered nurse in Nebraska and experience assigning, reviewing, leading, or supervising the work of others.
PREFERRED: Experience in the field of Developmental Disabilities (I/DD). Effective collaboration with multiple disciplines. Supervisory/management skills required (minimum 2-3 years). Computer skills (data entry and retrieval) required. Current CPR certification required. Ability to plan, coordinate and implement nursing care.
Unusual Presentation Of Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension In A Paediatric Patient | 81315
Unusual presentation of idiopathic intracranial hypertension in a paediatric patient
Anna Praidou, Vaia Doulioglou, Eirini Kaldi and Sofia Androudi
Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital of Thessaloniki "G. Gennimatas-O Agios Dimitrios", Greece Department of Paediatrics, General Hospital of Thessaloniki "G. Gennimatas-O Agios Dimitrios", Greece Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital of arissa, Thessaly, Greece
Statement of the problem: Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) was described over a century ago; although its pathogenesis remains unknown, diagnostic and therapeutic developments during the past two decades have substantially advanced patient management. The purpose of this case report is to present an usual presentation of IIH in a paediatric patient. Methodology and Theoretical Orientation: A case of an 11 year-old male patient was referred to Dept. of Ophthalmology due to blurred vision in the last week on both eyes. On presentation Ishihara colour vision was normal and his best corrected visual acuity was 6/12 on his right eye and 6/9 on his left eye. Findings: Fundoscopy revealed papilloedema and macular oedema bilaterally. The patient underwent optical coherence tomography and visual fields investigation which showed visual field abnormality. The boy is not obese and his blood tests were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging and lumbar puncture confirmed a diagnosis of increased intracranial pressure (ICP). Patient was treated medically with acetazolamide 250 mg 3 times per day. One week follow-up showed improvement in macular oedema, while one month follow-up showed improvement in papilloedema and good recovery of visual function. Six month follow-up showed almost resolution of papilloedema, while there are remaining visual field defects. Conclusion and Significance: The treatment goal for patients with IIH is to preserve optic nerve function while managing ICP. Optic nerve function should be carefully monitored with an assessment of visual acuity, colour vision, optic nerve head appearance, and perimetry. Patients without visual loss most often are treated with a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (acetazolamide) to lower the ICP. In patients with severe symptoms, early visual field loss, or poor response to standard medical therapy, some clinicians utilize a short course of high-dose oral corticosteroids. Both prompt diagnosis and management are important to prevent permanent visual loss. Recent Publications 1. Friedman DI, Jacobson DM (2004) Idiopathic intracranial hypertension. J Neuroophthalmol 24:138-45. 2. Fraser JA, Bruce BB, Rucker J, et al (2010) Risk factors for idiopathic intracranial hypertension in men: a case-control study. J Neurol Sci 290:86-9. 3. Jirásková N, Rozsíval P (2008) Idiopathic intracranial hypertension in pediatric patients. Clin Ophthalmol 2:723-6. 4. Wall M, McDermott MP, Kieburtz KD, et al (2014) Effect of acetazolamide on visual function in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension and mild visual loss: the idiopathic intracranial hypertension treatment trial. JAMA 311:1641-51. 5. Ney JJ, Volpe NJ, Liu GT et al (2009) Functional visual loss in idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Ophthalmology 116:1808-1813. 6. Wall M, Falardeau J, Fletcher WA, et al (2015) Risk factors for poor visual outcome in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Neurology 85:799-805.
Anna Praidou received her medical degree, completed her PhD thesis and her residency at the University of Thessaloniki, Greece. She completed an MSc in Medical Research Methodology at the University of Thessaloniki, Greece and another MSc in Health Unit Management at the Open University of Patra, Greece. After completion of her training in Ophthalmology she was working at Alder Hey Hospital, Liverpool in Paediatric Ophthalmology, at Royal Liverpool University Hospital in Medical retina, Uveitis and Ocular Oncology Services. She was previously also working at Moorfields Eye Hospital, London in the Cataract Service and at the Royal Free Hospital, London in Medical Retina and Cataract services. She is currently working as a Consultant Ophthalmic Surgeon in NHS.
InfoGraphic on UK smokers and reaso ...
Apr 27, 2013 Admin Ozone Steam Sauna No comments
How many people smoke Worldwide; more than all the Facebook users, and if you put all the smokers in the same country they would compete head to head with China as the largest population on Earth.
The negative consequences of smoking is well documented, so why do so many people still practice this habit? Surely it can't be from ignorance or naiveness. The fact of the matter and a huge driver behind this is addiction. People are susceptible to various addictions; picking up a cigaret and lighting it isn't difficult, add peer pressure and nicotine and you have a winning combination for enslaving someone for the rest of their lives.
So how do we kick this habit? Plenty of motivation can do wonders, but the withdrawal is the largest culprit. To manage your withdrawal symptoms you need to get rid of the toxins that fuel these withdrawals. Traces of nicotine and tar can be found in your blood stream, bone marrow and organs. You need to cleanse your body of these before attempting to quit entirely. We recommend reducing the amount of cigarettes you smoke per day, visit an ozone therapy clinic to experience a detoxifying ozone therapy session in either an ozone steam pod or ozone far infrared cabinet and get plenty of support from friends and family.
Any suggestions from people that kicked the habit are welcome.
addiction bacteria cancer cigarettes dangerous health heart ozone sauna ozone steam sauna ozone steam therapy prevention tar Unsafe vitality wellness
Home » Health Professionals » Resources » Lung » National Asthma Control Initiative (NACI) » News & Events » eNewsletters & eAlerts » Guidelines Implementation Panel (GIP) Messages » Severity + History = A Roadmap to Treatment
During the winter of 1994, James W. Stout, MD, MPH, FAAP, was working at the Odessa Brown Children's Clinic in Seattle's lower-income Central District when he was struck by something.
According to the findings of two different study groups of inner-city children with asthma , conducted by Stout and several co-authors, the answer is yes.
Approximately one out of every three study participants was reclassified into a higher National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) asthma-severity category when lung function was added.
As you may know, assessing asthma severity is one of six actions that the NAEPP Guidelines Implementation Panel (GIP)—of which Dr. Stout is a member—has identified as critical to the improvement of asthma control and care. The remaining five key GIP messages to healthcare providers are:
Use inhaled corticosteroidsas indicated by the guidelines.
Dr. Stout believes that spirometry is not only the key to assessing severity, it's a good catalyst for the other five GIP actions.
"It facilitates a planned-visit system," said Dr. Stout. "A golden rule of spirometry is that you don't do it during an asthma attack; it requires scheduling a patient, putting together an action plan, and thus can serve as a catalytic point."
Types of Therapeutic Counselling | Miller Health Services
Types of Therapeutic Counselling
There are many resources to learn skills on your own, such as books or online resources. But for many people, speaking with a social worker in a safe environment is an effective approach.
Sadness does not have mental and emotional symptoms only. Physical symptoms can be difficulty sleeping, brain fog, and loss of appetite.
A social worker can help find ways that work for you, set goals, and heal and feel more like yourself.
Therapists often help people reduce and manage their stress. They can also help people work through other mental health issues that have developed while coping with high levels of stress over a period of time.
If you are worried about how symptoms of stress are affecting you, it is okay to reach out for help. Talking with our social worker about your stress can help you learn how to manage it and create healthy coping mechanisms.
Symptoms of stress can be physical, mental, and emotional; affecting people on different levels. This is why it is helpful to identify which parts of ourselves are being affected by stress.
Some physical symptoms can include headaches, insomnia, fatigue, body pain and stomach aches, acne, or digestive issues.
Some mental symptoms may include feelings of anxiety, depression, suicide ideation, addictions or compulsions, and substance abuse.
Some emotional symptoms may include irritability, sadness, anger, apathy and an sense of overwhelming.
Stress is not always caused by a negative event. Some positive, common life experiences can be just as stress-inducing as negative ones. Losing or starting a new job, a divorce or breakup, getting married, being discriminated against, having a child, moving, beginning or ending school, or being diagnosed with a serious illness are just a few examples.
Issues are inherent in the relationships we nurture and therapeutic counselling with a social worker can be a safe space to explore communication problems, conflict, parenting, reconnection and healing among other reasons.
It may feel overwhelming if you normally go to your partner with problems but no matter the reason, you can ask for help from our social work team. Skilled therapeutic counsellors, our social work team is able to make partners feel safe, without taking sides.
Depression is common and characterized by a relentless sense of despair and sadness. With depression, these feelings persist. There are as many effective treatments as there are reasons why people do not seek treatment or ask for help. While public perception of depression is slowly changing, there is still a stigma associated with the disorder. Another reason may be that people don't recognize the symptoms.
If you are interested in therapeutic counselling, please connect with us by phone or conveniently book online below.
Top Alcohol Detox Programs Clemmons North Carolina 27012
1 Types of Therapy Programs Available in Clemmons North Carolina
2 Advantages of treatment programs available in Clemmons NC
3 The Dependency Recovery Refine at a Glimpse for Clemmons North Carolina
Types of Therapy Programs Available in Clemmons North Carolina
Study research studies on addiction therapy usually have identified programs right into a number of basic types or modalities. Treatment approaches and also private programs remain to evolve and diversify, and numerous programs today do not fit nicely into conventional drug adiction treatment classifications.
A lot of, nevertheless, start with detoxification as well as medically managed withdrawal, commonly taken into consideration the initial stage of therapy. Detoxification, the process by which the body removes itself of medicines, is created to handle the intense as well as potentially hazardous physiological effects of stopping drug use. As specified previously, detoxification alone does not resolve the psychological, social, as well as behavior issues connected with dependency and as a result does not normally create lasting behavior changes necessary for recovery. Detoxing ought to thus be complied with by an official analysis as well as referral to medicine addiction treatment.
Due to the fact that it is typically come with by undesirable as well as possibly deadly negative effects originating from withdrawal, detoxification is frequently taken care of with medications carried out by a doctor in an inpatient or outpatient setting; as a result, it is referred to as "medically taken care of withdrawal." Medicines are available to help in the withdrawal from opioids, benzodiazepines, alcohol, pure nicotine, barbiturates, and other sedatives.
Advantages of treatment programs available in Clemmons NC
Addiction recuperation programs give a few of the best opportunities for long-lasting recuperation by offering substance abusers the physical as well as mental support they have to beat compound dependency.
Material abusers that are prepared to turn their lives around have a number of alcohol and drug healing programs to select from– consisting of inpatient programs, various other residential programs, outpatient healing programs and also support system.
There is a lot of information on the subject of addiction healing, and also often it can be frustrating to attempt to weed with all the details. Finding out about addiction healing does not have to be complex, nonetheless.
Keep reading to discover several of one of the most key points regarding exactly what the recovery process requires as well as just what you can anticipate as you progress in your recovery.
The Dependency Recovery Refine at a Glimpse for Clemmons North Carolina
Several begin their dependency healing procedure with a period of detoxing (detoxification), where the body rids itself of medications, alcohol as well as various other contaminants. Detoxification permits the body to restore to a stable, toxin-free state. Some kinds of detoxification programs utilize medicine assistance to promote the procedure.
Throughout addiction recovery, people in therapy might likewise undertake different sorts of therapy and also join support system as they function to address and also heal the mindsets, ideas, emotions as well as actions that caused substance abuse in the first place. Continuous participation in treatment and also support groups might proceed long after the preliminary duration of therapy as they may continue to provide long-term recuperation advantage for several people.
Numerous inpatient or residential recovery programs are offered via qualified dependency recovery. These immersive programs preserve high requirements for dependency therapy care. Treatment staff member workers offer day-and-night supervision of program homeowners.
Individuals at medical facility facilities stay overnight at hospitals as well as have access to physicians as well as registered nurses 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Various other domestic centers located outside of a healthcare facility typically will give some accessibility to healthcare specialists, when it is required.
The primary objective of inpatient programs is to provide a risk-free, encouraging atmosphere for clients, and to provide the devices they have to accomplish long-term abstaining. The size of stay in the healing program is figured out by the nature and seriousness of the compound dependency.
High-end rehabilitation is a type of residential treatment that provides miraculous degree of dependency recovery treatment– often in a preferable setup or environments, and also with accessibility to a variety of high-end services.
After leaving an inpatient facility, clients are encouraged to sign up with a support system and on a regular basis go to group meetings. Support groups aid people preserve sobriety by offering peer and also coach partnerships along with a variety of "tools" that aid individuals maintain abstaining.
Numerous restorative settings use group treatment to profit from the social support supplied by peer conversation as well as to assist advertise drug-free way of lives. Research study has revealed that when team therapy either is provided combined with embellished medicine counseling or is formatted to mirror the concepts of cognitive-behavioral treatment or backup management, favorable results are accomplished. Currently, scientists are checking conditions in which team treatment could be standardized as well as made more community-friendly.
Best alcohol rehab centers 27012best alcohol rehab centers Clemmons NCBest alcohol treatment centers 27012Best alcohol treatment centers Clemmons NCBest alcohol treatment facilities 27012Best alcohol treatment facilities Clemmons NCMost successful rehab programs 27012most successful rehab programs Clemmons NCTop alcohol treatment centers 27012Top alcohol treatment centers 27012Top alcohol treatment centers Clemmons NCTop alcohol treatment centers Clemmons NCTop alcohol treatment facilities 27012Top alcohol treatment facilities Clemmons NC
Previous PostBest Alcohol Treatment Programs Manchester Pennsylvania 17345Next PostBest Alcohol Treatment Programs Ambia Indiana 47917
Planet of the Diamonds - Global Economic Intersection
Planet of the Diamonds
Econintersect: Scientists at Yale University and in France have a new research report accepted for publication in the Journal of Astrophysics Letters. The report reveals new analysis of data for a planet in a solar system nearby to our own. It appears from the analysis that the planet surface could be as much as 1/3 diamonds. Since the planet is only 40 light years distant only travel at exceeding the speed of light (see GEI News, yesterday) stands between us and a ready, vast supply of diamonds.
Authors of the paper are Nikku Madhusudhan, Yale University geophysicist Kanani Lee, and Olivier Mousis, a planetary scientist at the Institut de Recherche en Astrophysique et Planetologie in Toulose, France.
Lead researcher Nikku Madhusudhan, a postdoctoral research associate at Yale is quoted in Yale News:
New details about the planet in question was discovered only last year when it was observed transiting the line of sight to its star. Here is further information from Yale News:
The planet is referred to as a super earth because of its earth-like physical dimensions and its vastly greater density (which makes it "super"). It is very unearthlike though, in the opinion of scientists, with high levels of the elements carbon, iron, silicon and their compounds. There are much lower levels of oxygen and water (possibly no water at all). For earth the interior of the planet is oxygen rich and carbon poor.
