NDC Statement on the State of Health Care Services | NOW Grenada
NDC Statement on the State of Health Care Services
STATEMENT OF THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (NDC) ON THE STATE OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES IN GRENADA TODAY.
The National Democratic Congress registers its gravest concerns regarding the poor quality of health care being provided to the Grenadian public, the rapidly deteriorating conditions at the country's hospitals, and negative impact it is having on the morale of the health care professionals, including the doctors and nurses.
Of greatest concern is the failure or inability of the Government to adequately staff the hospital with the number of doctors needed to provide basic services.
According to World Health Organization (WHO) , taking into consideration the population of Grenada, a total of 47 doctors are needed to "man" the three hospitals in our Tri-Island State. During the tenure of the NDC administration between 2008 and 2013 the number of doctors servicing the hospital stood at 45. Over the past two years the NNP administration retained the services of only 35 doctors to service the hospitals — 12 less than what is required.
Moreover, according to reports received, 5 of the 35 doctors presently on staff are scheduled to leave the service shortly to pursue specializations in various medical fields. This would bring the total number of doctors servicing the three hospitals down to 30 — 17 less than the 47 required.
Secondly, due to the severe shortage of doctors, the junior doctors/house officers are forced to carry the brunt of the workload and are seriously overworked.
According to reports received from the hospital, at any given time, there are only 4 junior Doctors taking up duty at the General Hospital. Beginning duty at 8 am, they must check the wards, attend to the clinics, attend at the operating theatres as needed, then go on call from 4 pm to 8 am the next morning. They are also expected to cover casualty during that 24 hour shift. The doctors on casualty spend as many as 12 continuous hours in the emergency room.
Again, according to World Health Organization, the normal working hours per month per doctor should be 160 hours. According to reports received, the young doctors are clocking in some 360 hours per month, leaving them physically and mentally exhausted.
This situation significantly increases the risk that they would exercise poor judgment, make incorrect diagnoses or prescribe improper treatments.
Similarly, there is an acute shortage of nurses at the hospitals. We are advised that according to international best practice, the standard patient to nurse ratio at any given hospital should be 4 to 1. At our General Hospital here in Grenada, the nurses report that they are often operating on a 25 to 1, sometimes even on a 30 to 1 ratio. This situation exists while there are as many as 36 registered and skilled nurses sitting at home without employment. Moreover, the Government has stated, as a matter of official government policy, that in relation to public workers, including nurses, it will employ an attrition policy whereby only 3 nurses would be hired to replace every 10 nurses that retire from public service.
These health practitioners are required to work within a system with very little, or, in some instances, inadequate medical supplies and medicines and poorly functioning equipment. In fact, reports received from the general hospital indicate that right now, there is only 1 functioning anaesthetic machine to service the 5 operating theatres at the hospital. As a result, only emergency surgeries can be performed at the hospital.
To the utter astonishment and dismay of the general public, oxygen tubing devices and nasal cannulas are washed and hung to dry on the rusting bars and window sills of the paediatric ward, even though nasal cannulas are designed and intended for single-use and then discarded. Mouth pieces and facial masks are also washed and reused. Undoubtedly, this increases the risks that micro-organisms will find their way into these devices and result in the infection of subsequent users. Nebulizers at the casualty department are also washed and reused.
Urine tests are done without gloves, leaving the nurses exposed. Dressing trays that are supposed to be one to a patient are used one to a section — a section holds 6 beds.
The situation is no better at the Princess Alice Hospital. They are now back to 3 doctors, working 24 hours at a time. This hospital, like any other, should be staffed with Consultants/Specialists, Registrars, Junior Doctors/House officers and Interns. Princess Alice Hospital serves the largest parish in the country, St Andrew, as well as the two adjoining parishes, St Patrick and St David. Yet, it is forced to operate without Consultants, without Registrars and without Interns. The questions must therefore be asked: Who is looking over the Junior Doctors? Who is to ensure that they administer the correct dosage of medicines to the patients?
Princess Alice has 5 departments — male, female, paediatrics, maternity and casualty. There is only 1 ward manager. When away on leave, there is no replacement. It is reported that quite often, the nursing assistant is in charge of the wards. This is happening at a time when government is boasting about the export of Registered Nurses to another country.
There is only one nurse at the casualty at Princess Alice per day or night. Reports are that there is usually no one at the information desk . As a result, the same nurse has to answer the telephone, take orders, do dressings, and be with the doctor (when there is one), during a procedure.
According to the reports received from the hospital, there is still no one to operate the ultrasound machine and the incinerator.
On the sister islands of Carriacou and Petite Martinique, the situation is even worse. Given the lack of facilities and equipment at the Princess Royal Hospital, the residents must travel to Grenada for the most basic services.
In emergency situations, they must find hundreds, sometimes thousands of dollars to travel to Grenada for emergency treatment.
There are only 2 doctors serving the two islands — one at the hospital and the other serving the clinics including the clinic at Petite Martinique. When the doctor serving clinics travel to Petite Martinique, there is no one serving the clinics on mainland Carriacou.
The shortage of medical equipment, supplies and basic medicines at the Princess Royal Hospital has become legendary. Only a few weeks ago, a 49 year old woman who travelled from the United States to visit her mother, died from an asthma attack because the lone respirator at the hospital was not working.
The National Democratic Congress (NDC) understands and appreciates that Grenada does not have an unlimited amount of resources and that there is a limit to what can be done. At the same time, the situation is dangerous and unacceptable. The risks posed to the health of the entire population of Grenada, Carriacou and Petite Martinique are simply too great! The Government must act, and act NOW!
We hold the view that much better can be done by a caring government with the right priorities. The money spent by the Prime Minister on his globe- trotting and joy rides to different parts of the world can be used to purchase badly needed basic medical supplies and medicines for the hospitals — even gloves for the nurses to work with.
The ministerial salaries paid to parliamentary back-benchers who have no ministerial responsibilities or portfolios can be appropriately adjusted so as to realize some savings to be applied to public health. The large pay cheques to political advisers and operatives can be diverted to the health sector without any loss of benefit to the state of Grenada, Carriacou and Petite Martinique.
It is the responsibility of the government to do what is necessary to ensure the health and safety of the citizens of our country.
The NDC therefore calls upon the NNP administration of Prime Minister Mitchell to:
Reduce the number of working hours of the junior doctors to acceptable standards so as to reduce the risk of medical error;
Provide the health care workers with the basic medical supplies and medicines required to perform their duties;
TIET Patiala Plant Biotechnology Postdoc Openings
HomeOthersTIET Patiala Plant Biotechnology Postdoc Openings
TIET-TAU Centre of Excellence for Food Security (T2CEFS)
01 Postdoctoral Position
Centre of Excellence for Food Security, TIET Patiala is looking for a postdoctoral candidate to work in the area of "Nano-assisted delivery system of CAS9/gRNA to a tissue culture of cereals' crop for genome editing of agronomic traits". Selected post-doctoral fellow shall work jointly with Prof. Anil Kumar and Dr. ShekharAgnihotri in interdisciplinary fields in close association with Agriculture Research Organization (ARO), Volcani Center, Israel.
Fellowship: The fellowship carries a consolidated monthly stipend of Rs. 50,000/-.
Duration: The position is available immediately and initially offered for one-year term, subject to renewal based on performance and available funds. The position can be extended to one more year and/or co-terminus with project.
Essential Qualifications: PhD in Plant Biotechnology/Plant Tissue Culture/Nanotechnology/ Biotechnology. Candidates having prior experience in the research fields, in any one of the two diversed areas, Plant Biotechnology (molecular biology, plant tissue culture, handling CRISPR/CAS9/) and Nanotechnology (nanomaterials synthesis, development of nano-formulations, drug delivery, surface functionalization methods, click chemistry) Applicants from premier organizations such as IITs/IISERs/NISERs/Central University/CSIR labs/ Institutions of Eminence shall be given preference.
Desired Qualifications: We are seeking candidates that are bright, highly motivated, and inclined research scholars, who have the potential to publish in premier journals. Applicants are expected to be outstanding, intellectually curious researchers at an early stage of their scholarly career. The postdoctoral candidate will be expected to conduct fundamental and top-notched research lies at the interface between nanotechnology and plant biotechnology.
AGE: 35 years as on 15.02.2020 (relaxation of 5 years for SC/ST/PH/Women; 3 years for OBC category).
Application Process: Review of applications will begin immediately and all application received before Feb 10, 2020 shall be considered. Applicants must provide the application as a single PDF file, mentioning the documents in order given below;
(1) A 2-Page Resume mentioning education qualifications, research experiences, list of SCI publications with impact factors and instruments/techniques handled.
(2) A research statement
(3) Names and contact information for three potential references, and
(4) Reprints of your 2 best publications.
Please send all materials to Dr. Shekhar Agnihotri at shekhar.agnihotri@thapar.edu with a subject line "Post doctoral application: Food Security_(Applicant's Name)". You may further contact at +91-9920032558  Only shortlisted candidates will be called for personal interview. Please note that no TA/DA shall be given to the candidates called for interview.
If you suspect you may have a gluten intolerance, then the first thing that should be considered is the nine signs and symptoms of celiac disease. This article explains how to recognize a person who is suffering from gluten intolerance. What exactly is gluten intolerance? It is an inherited condition that causes the body to react in an adverse way to foods containing gluten, which is derived from wheat and rye. This condition can be mild to severe and can be diagnosed in as many as thirty-five percent of the population. There are six primary signs and symptoms of celiac disease. In this article, we'll cover them one at a time.
Gluten-intolerance is a problem caused by a genetic predisposition or impairment to the body's immune system. People with celiac disease have the same immune system problem, but their body doesn't seem to recognize it. They will often experience these signs and symptoms in conjunction with other ailments, which makes diagnosis difficult. These symptoms are usually very similar to those experienced by other people, and in fact, one of the first things a doctor will notice about someone with this condition is the way in which they handle stress. Some people who suffer from gluten intolerance have headaches or stomachaches, while others will just have general fatigue.
Other symptoms will include swelling or bruising in the gut, which is a result of the person's body absorbing too much gluten. In addition, some of these people have trouble digesting the food that they eat, which causes more discomfort. They will also experience diarrhea, bloating, and indigestion.
Some people do not feel any symptoms at all, but the problem may become apparent after they consume gluten for a long time. In addition, some people with celiac disease do not experience any symptoms at all. However, if symptoms occur, they may be so intense that they interfere with daily activities. These people may have difficulties breathing, swallowing food, and moving their arms or legs.
When you are concerned that you may be suffering from gluten intolerance, one of the best ways to be aware of the signs and symptoms is through diet. You should avoid any food containing wheat or rye if you want to minimize your risk of developing these symptoms. This includes bread, pretzels, pasta, pizza dough, and cereals, pastries, and any type of breaded grains. You should also avoid any food that has been processed. These foods have been stripped of natural vitamins and nutrients. In addition, if you are diagnosed with gluten intolerance, you should not eat eggs, fish, milk products, nuts, soy, shellfish, or other foods that contain gluten.
If these symptoms are present in people with celiac disease, it is a good idea to visit a doctor as soon as possible. It is important to learn the proper way to deal with the illness, as well as avoiding foods that can worsen the symptoms. Your doctor may be able to prescribe an anti-inflammatory medication to help relieve your symptoms. Many doctors will also be able to recommend foods that will help reduce or even eliminate the symptoms completely. If you do not know what these foods are, your doctor may be able to recommend foods that are known to decrease the symptoms. This is an important part of treating this condition because it can greatly affect your health.
While you are dealing with symptoms, it is important to keep track of how many times you eat each day and how much protein and fat you have. If you eat too much protein and fat, you may find that the symptoms get worse over time. If you eat a healthy diet, the symptoms will subside over time and disappear. If you do not eat a healthy diet, the symptoms may become worse over time, especially if you have been diagnosed with a gluten sensitivity. You should be aware of the symptoms and signs of gluten intolerance, as well as what to do if you think that they have become worse.
Boston is on the verge of remarkable breakthroughs for our toughest medical conditions - The Boston Globe
Skip to main content
Sections
Search
More
Podcasts
email Created with Sketch.
Newsletters
Coronavirus
Metro
Obituaries
Death Notices
Globe Local
Politics
Investigations
Education
Newton
New England
Weather
Sports
Red Sox
Patriots
Bruins
Celtics
Revolution
Colleges
High Schools
TV & Radio
Business
Healthcare
Life Sciences
Technology
Real Estate
Economy
Bold Types
Top Places to Work 2021
Politics
Elections
Opinion
The Emancipator
Ideas
Columns
Editorials
Letters
Cartoons
Spotlight
Rhode Island
Things to Do
Rhode Island Podcast
RI Food & Dining
Politics
Business
Arts
Crime
Nation
Climate
World
Lifestyle
A Beautiful Resistance
Food & Dining
Comics
Crossword
Games
Travel
Names
Love Letters
Real Estate
Globe Magazine
Marijuana
Arts
Books
Movies
Music
Television
Visual Arts
Theater/Dance
Cars
Real Estate
Events
Search
ePaper
Magazine
Obituaries
Weather
Comics
Crossword
Events
Manage my Account
Mr. 80 Percent
Gladiator
Last Seen
Love Letters
STAT: The Readout Loud
All Podcasts
The Globe Investigates
The Big To Do
This week in Weed
All Newsletters
Today in Opinion
Today's Headlines
Breaking News Alerts
Weekend Reads from Ideas
Globe's Most Popular
Metro Headlines
108 Stitches
Rhode Map
Point After
Innovation Beat
Email to a Friend
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
Print this Article
View Comments
MetroSportsBusinessOpinionHealthRhode IslandSpotlightLifestylePoliticsArtsGlobe MagazineCoronavirusTechnologyClimateEducationCarsReal EstateEvents
Boston is on the verge of remarkable breakthroughs for our toughest medical conditions
Local researchers could transform treatment for conditions ranging from Alzheimer’s to depression, heart disease to cancer.
By Elizabeth GehrmanDecember 2, 2015, 2:35 p.m.
Email to a Friend
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
Print this Article
View Comments
Francesco Bongiorni
CANCER
The big news in cancer research is immunotherapy, which involves enlisting a patient's own immune system to fight the disease.
Two immunotherapy-based cancer vaccines are already on the market; both prevent the virus that causes cervical and other cancers. But now researchers around the world are also working to ward off cancers once they've started, using the body's own immune response to fight bladder, breast, kidney, brain, and lung cancers, among others. Researchers at Boston's Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center have developed a vaccine that in trials has resulted in sustained remission of leukemia and myeloma, and others are working on drugs to enable T cells to attack solid tumors in diseases like kidney cancer and melanoma.
Advertisement
Much of this is based on the work of Gordon Freeman and his team at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, who in the early 2000s discovered the PD-1 pathway that cancer hijacks, turning off your immune system's reaction to the invader. "The idea is that once you stop the tumor from inhibiting your immune response, then things can get rolling," says Freeman.
Also exciting are discoveries in the recently uncovered realm of genetic "dark matter." "Our whole knowledge on cancer right now comes from 2 percent of our genome," says Pier Paolo Pandolfi, director of the Cancer Center at Beth Israel. "The rest of our genome, the 98 percent we haven't studied, is extremely important in diseases, including cancer. All this space is called dark matter of the genome because no one knew anything about it until recently."
The dark matter contains several types of RNA molecules that were originally written off as "junk cells" but are now believed to play a role in all kinds of diseases. "We have to reassess each and every disease based on this research," Pandolfi says, adding that the study of truly personalized medicine can finally begin now that we are able to read the entire "book of life" rather than just a chapter.
Advertisement
Because developing RNA-based drugs is less complex than protein-based ones, they may get through development faster. If they prove useful, the drugs ultimately could be used in combination with existing therapies. In addition, compounds affecting the molecules could be employed in combination with existing therapies, particularly in the realm of cancer, since it's believed RNA plays a critical role in the life cycle of the disease.
"There's a great deal of interest now, and as a community we're very optimistic," says Pandolfi, who launched Beth Israel's Institute for RNA Medicine in 2014. "Never before could we use all these approaches at once."
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
Francesco Bongiorni
Today, 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's, and the cost of caring for them is an estimated $226 billion a year. If no effective treatments are found, that cost could increase fivefold by 2050. But several significant studies that might advance care are underway in Massachusetts labs.
With a treatment called transcranial magnetic stimulation, already used for depression, doctors stimulate a patient's brain with electric current, then engage the patient in cognitive tasks. "It increases plasticity of the networks and modifies connectivity," says Dr. Alvaro Pascual-Leone, director of the Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation at Beth Israel. "So it makes the traffic in the brain areas flow easier." The treatment has been shown to help the day-to-day functioning of people with early stage Alzheimer's up to three times better than current drug interventions.
Advertisement
Another promising approach involves an antibody that selectively destroys the clumping tau proteins characteristic of Alzheimer's. "All of us have tau and need tau in our brains," says Pascual-Leone, "but it comes in two shapes — the good form and the toxic form." Beth Israel scientists have found a way to keep the conversion to the harmful form from happening in mice. The challenge, of course, is to do the same in people. "But we're not that far off," Pascual-Leone says.
A third intervention is also an antibody, this time against amyloid plaques, another hallmark of Alzheimer's. "Amyloid plaques occur 10 to 20 years before significant memory loss," says Reisa Sperling, director of the Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. To head off symptoms before they start, Sperling is at work on a large trial with people aged 65 to 85 who are at risk of getting the disease; she soon hopes to start studying subjects as young as 55. "If you already have brain shrinkage and symptoms of dementia," she says, "it may be too late for the amyloid treatment to fully work."
CROHN'S AND COLITIS
The explosion of research on the human microbiome — the 10 to 100 trillion bacterial and other cells that live on and in everyone, particularly in the intestines — in recent decades has given those suffering from inflammatory bowel diseases new hope. Fecal microbial transplant has an inherent gross-out factor, but the procedure, which implants stool from a healthy donor into a patient with IBD, is up to 95 percent effective against colitis caused by the bacterium Clostridium difficile (C. diff.), which until this discovery was almost impossible to fight.
Advertisement
Enter so-called poop pills — processed, frozen, acid-resistant capsules. A 2014 research paper by Libby Hohmann of Massachusetts General Hospital's Infectious Diseases Division and others showed the pills were nearly as effective as delivery of fecal matter by colonoscope, without the expense and medical risks involved. So far, 163 patients have taken the pills — 30 of them over two days — and, voila, for almost all, their C. diff. colitis disappeared. "I would call it a cure," says Hohmann, "with the caveat that it's not a panacea." The bacterium, which in this country primarily colonizes patients who are on antibiotics, may return in those who are repeatedly treated for chronic infections, and the regimen does not work as well for other kinds of bowel disorders.
But demonstrating the importance of the microbiome has jump-started research on targeted, lab-grown probiotics that restore specific microbial communities in patients, not only for Crohn's and colitis but also for immune problems, mental health, and other conditions as diverse as asthma, eczema, heart disease, and obesity. "It's something we didn't appreciate was such an important part of health," Hohmann says.
DEPRESSION
Many new avenues are being explored in treating depression, which may affect as many as 1 in 6 American adults at some point in their lives. At Mass. General, Paolo Cassano, a researcher at the Center for Anxiety and Traumatic Stress Disorders, is working on one of several pilot studies nationwide of transcranial infrared light therapy. Believed to decrease inflammation and oxidative stress in the brain as well as increase the formation of neurons, the treatment would be used to alleviate depression. The current study in humans is small, so much more work needs to be done, but Cassano says he's "seen some patients responding really well."
Advertisement
At McLean Hospital in Belmont, low-field magnetic stimulation has a similarly quick positive effect. In early studies, physicist Michael Rohan has found that a particular sequence of magnetic pulses was as effective as Prozac. "It was greeted with some skepticism, because the [magnetic] fields we use are so low that people couldn't see how it was working," says Rohan. "But we have a fairly strong clinical result now, and others are following up with new studies." His dream is to make a device that patients could use at home.
"The most surprising thing about studying depression is the ability of the brain to repair itself once it gets into a stable position," he says. "Given the right environment, the brain will heal itself."
HEART DISEASE
Francesco Bongiorni
By 2030, 40 percent of the US population is expected to have some form of cardiovascular disease due to longer life spans and increased risk factors like obesity, diabetes, and hypertension. "There are millions of Americans walking around with heart disease who don't know it," says Dr. David McManus, director of the Atrial Fibrillation Treatment Program at UMass Memorial Medical Center. "AFib and congestive heart failure are emerging epidemics, both in the US and worldwide."
Atrial fibrillation — which is associated with a fivefold increase in stroke risk — and congestive heart failure are nearly asymptomatic in their early stages. "But there are concepts now like pre-diabetes and pre-hypertension, and I'm saying there's [also] pre-heart disease," McManus says. "We're way behind in mechanisms to identify people headed toward these diseases."
One of the challenges with AFib, in particular, is that it comes and goes, so your heart might look normal during an electrocardiogram or stress test but still be skipping beats intermittently, causing random fatigue or a periodic not-so-great feeling. McManus and his colleagues have developed a smartphone app that can diagnose potential problems in real time by prompting users to put their finger on the phone's camera at intervals throughout the day.
McManus's team is also working on variations of a smart vest that operates like a wearable EKG, pairing with the app to monitor heart function. "I guarantee eventually this stuff will be in your Under Armour shirt to wear to the gym," he says. Once that happens, we should be able to "keep people with AFib or congestive heart failure living longer and living well. That's the goal." If the disease is diagnosed in time, McManus adds, "it can go from life-threatening to an inconvenience — something you die with, not from."
DIABETES
The promise of bionic medicine — first introduced to most Americans by TV's The Six Million Dollar Man — has finally arrived. "Smart" artificial limbs have been around for several years, and technology can now improve hearing and sight in some patients. The next frontier? Bionic organs. And one of the most innovative ideas comes from a collaborative team of researchers from Boston University and Massachusetts General Hospital led by Edward Damiano, a BU professor of biomedical engineering, and Dr. Steven Russell, an assistant professor of medicine at MGH's Diabetes Research Center.
The team expects US Food and Drug Administration approval by 2018 of what appears to be the most sophisticated artificial pancreas now in development. Like all such devices, this one will use a sensor implanted in the skin to determine how much insulin to give the patient; but it will be unique in that it will learn to predict a patient's carbohydrate consumption patterns based on minimal input from the subject. When paired with the proper software, the device will include functionality for a system (the researchers hope it will be approved by 2019) that will deliver not only insulin but also tiny doses of glucagon to prevent blood sugar from getting too high or too low, reducing complications down the road.
Today, only 30 percent of adults and 15 percent of children keep their blood sugar within levels recommended by the American Diabetes Association. Russell says his insulin/glucagon system has the potential to increase both numbers to nearly 100 percent. It could remove a huge burden from children and teenagers with Type 1 diabetes as well as older adults with Type 2, who may have a harder time managing the disease as their vision, dexterity, or mental function decreases. "It takes decisions about managing blood sugar away from patients completely by managing almost everything automatically," Russell says.
HEPATITIS
Since early 2014, progress made at Massachusetts General Hospital and other research centers across the country has proved "a massive game changer" for patients with hepatitis C, according to Dr. Raymond Chung, vice chief of MGH's gastrointestinal unit and director of its liver center. Such a game changer, in fact, that new combination therapies have the potential to "eradicate the virus from the population." And unlike traditional treatment with interferon, the therapies have few side effects and can be administered orally to nearly all patients.
The only thing standing in the way of eradication is finding those infected with the virus, which can cause liver disease, cancer, and death if left untreated. As many as three-quarters of the approximately 3 to 4 million Americans with hep C don't know they have it. Since the majority of those are baby boomers, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that anyone born between 1945 and 1965 get tested. The bonus: Advances in the treatment of hep C have renewed hope for a cure for hepatitis B.
POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER
It sounds like science fiction, but researchers at McLean Hospital are working with an element called xenon that can alter memory, potentially helping those with PTSD and other psychiatric conditions. "For a while, things like car accidents really bother you," says Marc Kaufman, director of the Translational Imaging Laboratory at the hospital. "After a while, it doesn't have the grip on you it once did, because new information and new memories come along to displace it. For people with PTSD and other problems, that doesn't happen."
Other issues that rely on memory include obsessive-compulsive and anxiety disorders — "If you have a dirt or germ phobia, for example," Kaufman says, "that's an emotional memory" — as well as addiction, which relies on the memory of how a particular drug (or its withdrawal symptoms) makes you feel.
While researching Parkinson's disease, Kaufman and his colleagues discovered almost by accident that xenon can be used to treat such disorders. Because xenon is inhaled and reaches the brain quickly, it can be used in a targeted way in combination with exposure therapy, in which patients recall their unsettling memory in the safe environment of a doctor's office. "It won't erase the problematic memory," Kaufman says, "but it could change the protein structure of that memory to make it less emotionally intense."
SICKLE CELL ANEMIA
In utero, humans make a blood-cell protein known as fetal hemoglobin, and most people start producing the adult form of the molecule shortly after birth. Unfortunately, in certain populations — notably those of African descent — adult hemoglobin is susceptible to an amino-acid change that causes painful, life span-shortening sickle cell anemia, which affects up to 100,000 Americans and countless Africans. A deficiency sometimes seen in adult hemoglobin is behind Cooley's anemia, too, which requires frequent transfusions and can also shorten life span. But because some rare individuals continue to produce the fetal version throughout their lives with no adverse effects, scientists realized that "if we could increase the amount of fetal hemoglobin in adults in a directed way, it would take care of these problems," says Dr. Stuart Orkin, chairman of the department of pediatric oncology at Dana-Farber.
Over the past 10 years, Orkin and his colleagues at the institute have found a protein that controls the switch. In lab-grown human cells and in animal models, silencing a gene called BCL11A can reactivate the production of fetal hemoglobin, completely reversing sickle cell. A proof-of-concept trial was recently approved using gene-editing techniques on a patient's own blood, and "in the next year or two, in principle, we'll know if it all works," says Orkin. "We hope that in less than five years, it will be available to patients." The only problem then will be access. "It's expensive," he says. "But I think if it's successful, insurance will pay."
More coverage:
• Gene studies shed light on women's reproductive health
• Electricity may spark medical treatment
• In the future, treatments tailored to patients
• The beginning of the end? The race for a Parkinson's cure
Elizabeth Gehrman is a frequent contributor to the Globe Magazine. Send comments to magazine@globe.com.
Black News Hour presented by The Boston Globe
Run by Black journalists at The Boston Globe, “Black News Hour,” a new radio program, delivers reliable news that connects with our community and expands on deeper issues impacting our city.
Archive by tag: BurnsReturn
First Aid Handbook: Sunburns
Integrity Urgent Care posted on 4/27/2018 6:38:00 AM
You may feel like a sunburn is permanently attached to your list of summer activities—family vacations, beach days, pool parties, camping trips, grill-outs, and sunburns. It's all part of the fun! But did you know that every sunburn can cause serious damage to your skin over the course of your life?
| Categories: Integrity Urgent Care, Urgent Care Services, Healthcare, Bryan/College Station, Copperas Cove, Athens, First Aid Handbook | Tags: Integrity Urgent Care, Bryan, College Station, Texas, Sunburns, Summer, Summer Vacation, Aloe Vera, Sun Exposure, UV Rays Sun | View Count: (608)
Integrity Urgent Care First Aid Handbook – Burns
Integrity Urgent Care posted on 7/18/2017 7:22:00 AM
This is the first in a series of blog posts designed to serve as a quick reference guide. Each will focus on a sudden injury or illness designed to help you make an informed decision on a plan of action when the unexpected happens. This blog post will discuss burns, how to treat them at home and when you should go see your doctor or visit an urgent care clinic or emergency room.
| Categories: Integrity Urgent Care, Urgent Care Services, Bryan/College Station, Copperas Cove, First Aid Handbook | Tags: Burns, Urgent Care, Bryan, College Station, Copperas Cove, Burn Treatment | View Count: (2109)
RSSIntegrity Urgent Care (101)
RSSUrgent Care Services (41)
RSSHealthcare (27)
RSSBryan/College Station (41)
RSSCopperas Cove (33)
RSSAthens (17)
RSSFirst Aid Handbook (25)
RSSCleburne (6)
RSS April 2019 (3)
RSS March 2019 (3)
Steroid Shots Acid Reflux BCBS School Emergency Room Integrity Urgent Care Flu HWS Drowning Prevention RSV symptoms
Digital technology has played an essential role in helping the 1,000 care homes across the South West to maintain access to health and care services for their residents during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Programme
Overview
Optimising the use of digital technologies to enable care between clinicians and care home residents
Webinars to support care home staff and clinicians
Analysis to identify best practice and showcase innovation
Details
Useful links
Get involved
Detailed Programme Information
With elderly and frail patients shielding from external contact, their carers living on site, and limits on care home visitors, video communication has provided a vital link to health professionals.
Our support has included webinars for staff and NHS clinicians, analysis of uptake data to highlight best practice and innovations, and spreading learning rapidly to support care homes to provide effective technology-enabled care.
Webinars – communicating with care homes
In July 2020 we ran a series of webinars with Devon Training Hub to support Primary Care Networks (PCNs) to deliver new care home specifications set out in the Network Contract Directed Enhanced Service (DES).
The webinars cover approaches for multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) to enable effective collaboration and communication with care homes.
We also delivered two webinars with the NHS England and NHS Improvement regional digital team to support the spread of a remote care round approach developed by Kingskerswell & Ipplepen Health Centres in South Devon, and to support care home staff and residents to receive video calls from clinicians.
[Anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis. An interdisciplinary clinical picture]. – What Causes Severe Mental Illness, Psychosis and Mania?
MariaM November 18, 2012 Anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis presenting as postpartum psychosis
Nervenarzt. 2010 Apr;81(4):396, 398, 400, passim.
Prüss H, Dalmau J, Arolt V, Wandinger KP.
Experimentelle Neurologie und Klinik und Poliklinik für Neurologie, Charité – Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin.
Anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis is a severe and considerably underdiagnosed form of encephalitis with characteristic clinical features including psychiatric symptoms, decreased levels of consciousness, hypoventilation, epileptic seizures, autonomic dysfunction and dyskinesias. Most patients are primarily seen by psychiatrists, often on the assumption of a drug-induced psychosis. Anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis had initially been described in young women with ovarian teratoma, but is also common in women without tumour, in men and in children. The diagnosis is based on the characteristic clinical picture, supporting findings of brain MRI, electroencephalogram and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and the presence of highly specific autoantibodies directed against the NR1 subunit of NMDA-type glutamate receptors in the serum or CSF. In particular, anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis must be excluded in patients with 'encephalitis of unknown cause'. In principle, the prognosis is favourable and recovery from symptoms can be expected even after prolonged intensive care treatment and mechanical ventilation. However, improvement correlates with prompt identification of the disorder, early immunotherapy and – in the case of a malignancy – with complete tumour removal. Patient care requires an interdisciplinary approach including neurologists, psychiatrists, paediatricians, oncologists and gynaecologists.
20119656
Previous Anti-NMDA-receptor encephalitis presenting as postpartum psychosis in a young woman
Next The introduction of the DSM-V is an opportunity for the mental health community to prevent the common misdiagnosis of Bipolar Disorder
Studio Within: Request An Appointment
Links | Online Dispensaries
Please follow the online appointment scheduling directions below to request a new patient or follow up naturopathic medicine visit with Dr. Tamara Darragh. If you would like to speak with Dr. Darragh about this appointment or would prefer to make the appointment via phone you can follow the Connect With Us link to send us an email and we will call you back or you can call our White Bear Lake office at: (612) 202-1417.
Once you have requested your appointment, Studio Within will receive this request and either confirm or deny it with an email. If we cannot accommodate your appointment request we will send you a message back with an alternate time and/or reason that we cannot accommodate the appointment. Please allow 3 business days for confirmation, as we are only in the White Bear Lake office on Tuesdays and Wednesdays.
New patients will receive an email invitation to Studio Within's patient portal. You will need to follow the provided link to set up a personal username and password. The patient portal will have all of your necessary new patient paper work, most of which you will be able to fill out online. The patient portal will also be a place for confidential communication between you and Studio Within, to request follow-up visits, access lab and diagnostic imaging results and to download forms, educational handouts and recommendations from your doctor.
Your first appointment will be scheduled for 90 minutes, but please allow 2 hours for this appointment.
We require that all online forms be completed at least 1 week before your first visit, as this allows us time to look over and prepare so we have more time during our face-to-face visit to discuss what's going on. This paperwork is quite lengthy, but we do appreciate your time and consideration to offer honest and thoughtful answers. It may take up to an hour to fill out depending on the complexity of your medical history.
We also ask that you fill out a 3-Day Food, Symptom, Bowel Movement Journal (2 weekdays and 1 weekend day) that will be available for download in your patient portal. Please bring this journal with you to your first appointment along with any current medications, supplements, homeopathic remedies and any recent labs or diagnostic imaging reports.
​Once set up, you can always access your patient portal from the Connect With Us link.
If you have any trouble requesting an appointment through this online system, please email or call us ((612) 202-1417) and we'll take care of it.
If you are a current patient requesting ablood draw appointmentplease send us a message through the patient portal and will provide you with the details of scheduling this appointment with Synergy Family Physicians. Blood draws are currently being scheduled on Tuesdays, from 8:45 AM to 11:30 AM and will be performed by Synergy Family Physicians.
Network Sites: Home-Remedies-For-You.com | DietHealthClub.com | Pregnancy-Baby-Care.com | MedicalHealthTests.com | Yogawiz.com | PetHealthAndCare.com | HealthyLifeInfo.com
Cholesterol Diet Recipe
Molasses Food Cake
Blend Cake Recipe
Cook Your Omlette
ADVERTISEMENT
Subscribe to our Newsletter:
Healthy Diet Plans >> Cholesterol Diet Recipe
Cholesterol Diet Recipe
Cholesterol rich foods are reduced in the diets of individuals suffering from atherosclerosis, hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart failure and so on. A high Cholesterol diet may results in a number of health issues.
High cholesterol diet plan with Cholesterol diet recipes prove beneficial for such individuals. A deep insight into the cholesterol rich foods is necessary, before preparation of a cholesterol diet recipe. Certain concepts and guidelines help in preparation of any kind of cholesterol diet recipe in an efficient manner. Some of them are listed below.
Meat in the diet is reduced. Use them sparingly in soups and other dishes, instead of making it as the main course. Lean cuts are preferred for the red one. Sirloin, round, loin and chuck are some of the lean beef cuts. Fish is beneficial, due to the omega 3 fatty acids. They are devoid of saturated fats and are baked, broiled or grilled. Deep fat frying is avoided. Crawfish and shrimp are reduced due to their increased quantity of cholesterol. Brain, liver, kidney and other organ meats are avoided, as they are a rich source of cholesterol.
Trimming the visible fat helps in decreasing the fat content of the cooked product. Goose and duck in the diet are replaced by chicken and turkey. Skinless poultry reduces the fat intake in the diet. A meat rack aids in removing the excess fat. Extra lean or lean ground beef are preferred. About 70 milligrams of cholesterol is present in a serving of three ounces cooked meat. The per cent of saturated fats varies and is determined by the cut. Steak, pork chops, hamburger and lamb chops are broiled and not preferably pan fried.
Salami, hot dogs, sausages and bologna are processed meats that are restricted in the diet. Boiled meat, soups and stews, prepared a day before helps, as the fat solidifies and is easily removed. Chocolates, pastries, prawns, baked foods, egg yolk, liver, cakes, butter, cheese, brain, liver and cream are excellent sources of cholesterol.
Vegetables are cooked with less fat and reduced salt. Non stick cookware proves beneficial in decreasing the oil required for cooking. Oil sprays are a good option for reduced usage. Spices and herbs, such as thyme, parsley, basil and oregano, call for less amount of salt in the recipe. Saturated and solid fats like margarine, butter and clarified butter are replaced by liquid oils, such as flaxseed oil, olive, soybean, sunflower and safflower oil. Vegetable sauces are used for cream sauces.
An egg of weight hundred grams has a cholesterol equivalent of 1.33 grams. Egg whites are cardiac friendly and contribute to protein. Skimmed milk and low fat yoghurt are preferred for whole fat milk. Brown rice, whole grains, cereals, legumes, pulses and whole grain pasta are helpful in contributing complex carbohydrates, in addition to fresh vegetables and raw fruits.
Individuals on a 2000 calorie diet are eligible for less than six ounces of poultry, fish and meat. This is the recommendation by the American Heart Association. Reading the food labels and choosing the right foods help a great deal in reducing the blood cholesterol levels.
Is Egg Omelet Consumption Healthy?
An omelet is a preparation that involves beating eggs and cooking them in oil. An omelet is a healthy meal option as it supplies all the major nutrients such as proteins, essential amino acids, and certain vitamins and minerals. Consuming an omelet benefits the immune system and helps in the regulation of hormonal activity in the body. However, excessive consumption of omelet may lead to adverse health consequences due to an increase in the levels of cholesterol in the body.
As you probably know, egg white is healthier than egg yolk. Thus egg white omelet provides you with all the benefits of this tasty dish without any additional cholesterol.
Submitted on January 16, 2014
ADVERTISEMENT
Features Archive
15 Slimming Foods for the Summer | Diet Plan | Cooling Foods | fruits and salads - May, 2010
Bratty Diet - Banana, Rice, Applesauce, Tea, Toast, Yogurt Diet - Mar, 2010
List of 21 Fresh Fruits And Vegetables For Fresh Healthy Nutrition - Nov, 2009
Fruits And Vegetables Nutrition Facts And Health Benefits - Jul, 2009
Cool Summer Food Ideas With Easy Summer Foods - May, 2009
21 Right Foods For Weight Reduction - Mar, 2009
51 Healthy Foods To Eat For Healthy Living - Feb, 2009
Healthy Winter Foods and Nutrition for Healthy Living - Jan, 2009
Top Searches
weight loss tips
green tea weight loss
stomach ulcer diet
sportsman diet
blackstrap molasses
gallstone diet
diet plan
iron rich foods
food diet
irritable bowel syndrome
Get Current News
Follow us on
Copyright © 2022 Mac Millan Interactive Communications, LLC
Terms of Use | Sitemap
The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Zara U. Amoros, APRN, ACNP - Cardiology , Cardioversion , Internal Medicine | University of Utah Health
Zara has been practicing as a Cardiology Nurse Practitioner (NP) since 2011. She started with Electrophysiology specialty for about 9 months caring for patients with heart rhythm abnormalities and then transitioned to General Cardiology caring for patients with more broad spectrum cardiac problems such as patients recovering from heart attacks , patients with heart rhythm abnormality, patients recovering from valve surgeries and heart bypass.
Prior to her career as a Nurse Practitioner Zara worked on Cardiovascular Unit at the University of Utah for 6 years being a charge nurse and caring for patients with Left Ventricular Assistive Devices (LVADs), pacemakers, heart and lung transplants, post cardiac catheterization patients and post lung surgery patients. Zara also worked in Electrophysiology Lab and Post Catheterization recovery room. Zara was appointed as Voluntary Associate Instructor at the University of Utah College of Nursing for the academic years 2006-2010.
She thoroughly enjoys working with her patients and delivering the very best care possible to help them maintain good health.
Zara enjoys outdoors, crafts, gardening, flower design and travelling around the world with her family.
