Episode #2: Pioneer Network’s Joan Devine on Changing the Culture of Aging and Resident-Directed Care
Pioneer Network’s director of education Joan Devine, RN shares her personal journey into nursing and discusses the concept of resident-directed care, and how it differs from task-centered and person-centered care paradigms. Continue reading
Today, our guest is Anne Sansevero, RN, a geriatric nurse practitioner with over 30 years of experience. In this episode, Anne shares her captivating journey into the world of geriatric care management and discusses her organization Health Sense, located in New York City. Continue reading
Each year millions of Americans face the reality of living with a mental illness. During the Month of May we fight stigma, provide support, educate the public and advocate for policies that support people with mental illness and their families. One in 5 Americans is affected by mental health conditions. Stigma is toxic to their mental health because it creates an environment of shame, fear and silence that prevents many people from seeking help and treatment. The perception of mental illness won’t change unless we act to change it.
We’re excited to announce the launch of our very own podcast. Beginning next week, the Nursing Assistant Podcast will feature exclusive expert interviews to help you advance your medical career. Whether you’re a CNA or medical assistant, or training to become one, you’ll learn about the education and job opportunities available to you.
Join us next week as our host Patricia Laramee, RN kicks off the first few episodes. You’ll be able to subscribe to the new podcast in Apple Podcasts (formerly iTunes), Google Play, or Stitcher. Or, you can listen here on our podcast website.
May is Healthy Vision Month, a national eye health observance established by the National Eye Institute (NEI) in May 2003. From the moment you wake up until you go to bed at night, your eyes are working to bring you the world. In fact, they deliver 80% of the information you take in every day — about your loved ones, your job, and all the things you love to see and do! That’s why it’s so important to keep them healthy and safe.
In honor of April being Foot Health Awareness month, the American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA) and Illinois Podiatric Medical Association (IPMA) are seeking to educate the public about the impact podiatrists can have on individuals’ day-to-day health. Did you know that by age 50, the average American will have walked approximately 75,000 miles in their lifetime? That is the equivalent of walking around the world three times. Because of that, it is important that you take care of your feet. The best way to do that is to routinely see a podiatrist.
April is STD Awareness Month, an annual observance to raise public awareness about the impact of STDs on the lives of Americans and the importance of preventing, testing for, and treating STDs. It is an opportunity to normalize routine STD testing and conversations about sexual health. If you’re sexually active, particularly with multiple partners, you’ve probably heard the following advice many times: Use protection and get tested. This is important because a person can have a sexually transmitted disease without knowing it.
March is colon cancer awareness month! Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in the United States and the second leading cause of death from cancer. Colorectal cancer affects people in all racial and ethnic groups and is most often found in people age 50 and older. If everyone age 50 and older were screened regularly, 6 out of 10 deaths from colorectal cancer could be prevented. Communities, health professionals, and families can work together to encourage people to get screened.
National Kidney Month is celebrated yearly during the entire month of March. Its purpose is one of information and education, to ensure that people are aware of the importance of learning about this disease that causes so much physical and moral harm. National Kidney Month is a great occasion to get involved and get educated on the basics of this disease. Everyone can do something to make a change in this world be it just one person, a family, a group of people or a community, an organization or a business.
The February 2018 National Children’s Dental Health Month is brought to you by the ADA (American Dental Association) and meant to raise awareness about the importance of oral health. This month-long national health observance brings together thousands of dedicated dental professionals, healthcare providers, and educators to promote the benefits of good oral health to children, their caregivers, teachers and many others.

September 11, 2014 September 11, 2014 NutmosApple, Apple Watch, iPhone, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus1 Comment	
September 23, 2012 September 23, 2012 NutmosApple, iOS, iOS 6, iPad, iPhone, iPod touchLeave a comment	

Hey, welcome to NutriKate, a high performance nutrition consultancy based in Dublin. NutriKate’s team are made up of passionate nutritionists and dietitians here to bridge the gap between you and your nutrition based goals.
Our mission is to provide you, the client, with bespoke nutrition advice that fits in with your lifestyle, making it easier than ever for you to reach your personal body composition, performance or health goals.
We believe that the correct nutrition practices should be; easy, attainable and affordable and that’s exactly what I’ve created with the services we provide here at NutriKate.
Why is India reluctant to include Molnupiravir in its arsenal against Covid? - Business Fast
Home » Why is India reluctant to include Molnupiravir in its arsenal against Covid?
posted on Jan. 14, 2022 at 1:25 am
The decision by the Covid-19 National Task Force not to include Covid antiviral drug molnupiravir in the national treatment protocol citing safety concerns, even as the drug finds place in the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 guidelines to treat a small subset of patients, has led to confusion among doctors.
Several doctors ET spoke to said ICMR's decision to not include the drug creates confusion, and questioned what the medical research body was doing when the drug was approved for restricted emergency use by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).
"It has definitely created a lot of confusion," said Vasant Nagvekar, an infectious diseases specialist at Mumbai-based Lilavati Hospital and member of the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force.
Nagvekar said as per the Maharashtra government protocol the drug may be considered for persons above 65 and those who are at high risk for progressing to severe disease. "We don't have specific treatments for these groups," Nagvekar said.
"Molnupiraivir may have a role in individuals at a high risk of deterioration, especially if unvaccinated," said Lancelot Pinto, consultant pulmonologist and epidemiologist at Mumbai-based PD Hinduja Hospital.
However, Pinto said ICMR's move to not include the molnupiravir is likely to do more good than harm, as drugs meant for use in a very specific subset of the population may often end up being used indiscriminately in India.
"It appears that every other department is working in silos. The ICMR should have had a word with CDSCO/DCGI before the (molnupiravir) approval," said Satyanarayana Mysore, HOD & consultant, pulmonology and lung transplant physician at Manipal Hospitals in Bangalore.
Mysore says (Balram) Barghava's (DG, ICMR) comment on the potential indiscriminate use of the antiviral is an "insult" to clinicians.
"At this point in the pandemic, I feel it's too premature to discard this drug till a well-conducted negative study comes through. More so because there are very few drugs in our arsenal against the Covid-19 fight," said Sanjith Saseedharan, consultant & head, critical care at SL Raheja Hospital.
Swati Rajagopal, infectious disease specialist at Aster CMI Hospital in Bangalore, says that the safety of the drug is determined by DCGI and the reason for not including it in the national guideline on grounds of safety doesn't seem right.
Bitcoin, ether, Shiba Inu slip while dogecoin surges over 9%. Check cryptocurrency prices today – Mint
If you don't have any obvious symptoms, blood tests can usually pick up insulin resistance, prediabetes, or diabetes.
Testing for diabetes should at least begin at about age 40, along with the usual tests for cholesterol and other markers of health. If you have any of the abovementioned symptoms, or suspect insulin resistance or diabetes, blood testing is recommended. Testing for insulin resistance, pre-diabetes and diabetes can include:
Blood glucose level test: Fasting glucose testing determines the amount of glucose in the blood after an 8 hour fast (thus not affected by food). It establishes whether your blood glucose level is within the normal range, to screen and confirm diabetes and monitor for high (hyperglycaemia) and low (hypoglycaemia) blood glucose.
Diabetes test: Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is a form of haemoglobin with attached glucose (glycated haemoglobin). This test measures the average amount of glucose in the blood over a period of 8 - 12 weeks. This result helps to establish the diagnosis of diabetes. It is also used to determine the risk for developing diabetes and for monitoring patients on treatment.
Lipogram/ lipid panel: A group of tests that measure specific lipids in the blood: the total cholesterol, lipid carrying proteins and triglycerides. It is used to screen for risk of developing heart disease (cardiovascular risk) and to monitor effectiveness of cholesterol lowering therapy or dietary interventions.
High cholesterol levels in the body can limit blood flow, which increases the risk of heart disease, which can ultim…
'Let's Talk': Can life transitions cause anxiety?
Sleep: Lack of sleep makes you see things through a much more dramatic lens, and your sleep-deprived brain can't cope as much with stress. Vehr says to try to be more intentional about your sleep habits — set a bedtime alarm, focus on winding down at the end of the night and limit your screen time, as it tends to keep our brains awake.
While life transitions are inevitable, as is the stress and anxiety that can come with them, these small changes and priorities will help you exert control over your life — and in turn, hopefully help to keep that anxiety at bay.
The Christ Hospital Health Network's "Let's Talk" video series features doctors from various specialties all throughout our vast network of excellent women's health physicians. During these webisodes, "Let's Talk" physicians share their expertise and candid feedback about health issues that women encounter every day, from breast health to mom guilt to healthy planning.
Sensitive data or personal data is processed through the service www.killerwork.nl. Killerwork V.O.F. believes that a careful handling of personal data is of great importance. Personal data are therefore carefully processed and protected by us. When processing, we adhere to the requirements of the Data Protection Act (DPA). Among others, this means that we:
clearly specify for what purposes we process personal data. We do this through this privacy statement;
limit our collection of personal data to only the personal data that is necessary for legitimate purposes;
ask for explicit permission to process your personal data in cases necessitating your permission;
take appropriate security measures to protect your personal data and require the same from parties who process data on our behalf;
respect your right to receive your personal data for inspection upon your request, to correct it or to remove it.
Killerwork V.O.F. is responsible for the process of the data. This privacy statement explains which personal data we collect and use and for what purpose. We recommend you to read it carefully.
This privacy statement was last updated on 29-05-2017.
Use of personal data
By making use of our service, you provide us with certain information. This could be personal data. We store and use only the personal data that was provided by you directly, with respect to the service as requested by you, or when it is clear that they are provided to us for the purpose of processing.
We use the following data for the purposes set out in this privacy statement:
Contact details
Phone number
Email address
IP address
Advertising
In addition to the information on our website we may inform you of new products and services:
by email
through social media
Contact form
If you fill out a contact form on the website, or send us an email, the data that you send to us is stored for as long as necessary by the nature of the form or the content of your email to be fully answered and handled.
Publications
We do not publish your customer data.
Disclosure to third parties
We may disclose your data to our partners. Our partners deliver tailored ads based on your personal data. These partners are involved in the implementation of the agreement. These partners may use your information for marketing purposes. These partners are (partly) located outside of the EU. However, they make use of a European model contract.
On our site, social media buttons are included. This allows the operators of these services to collect your personal data.
Google Analytics
We use Google Analytics to keep track of how visitors use our website. We have entered into a processing agreement with Google to make arrangements on how to handle our data. Furthermore, we have not permitted Google to use the data obtained through Analytics for other Google services, and finally, we have the IP addresses anonymized.
Security
We take security measures to limit abuse of unauthorized access to personal data.
Third party websites
This privacy statement does not apply to third party websites that are connected with this website by means of links. We can not guarantee that these third parties handle your personal data in a reliable and safe manner. We recommend you to read the privacy statement of these websites before making use of these websites.
Changes to this Privacy Statement
We reserve the right to make changes to this privacy statement. It is advisable to consult this privacy statement regularly, so that you are aware of these changes.
Inspection and modification of your data
For questions about our privacy policy or requests for access and changes to (or removal of) your personal data, you can contact us at any time through the information below:
Posted on October 31, 2022 November 11, 2022 Author Devon C. Wilson Comments Off on BMT Patient Meeting 2022 | News from the Department of Medicine
Since its founding in 1987 by the late Karl Blume, MD, the BMT Division has become an international leader and source of innovation in BMT and cell therapy treatments.
David MiklosMD, became Division Head in 2020, succeeding Robert NegrinMD, who held this position for 20 years from 2000. , explains Miklos.
“Our patients are our partners in all of our efforts,” he adds. “They are willing to undergo a high-risk transplant to get their lives back, and most want to share their experiences for the benefit of future patients.”
Crystal Mackall, MD, PhD, is the Ernest and Amelia Gallo Family Professor of Pediatrics and Internal Medicine, and Founding Director of the Stanford Center for Cancer Cell Therapy. She works closely with colleagues in the BMT and Cell Therapy division to create technologies to benefit small groups of patients in clinical trials, which can then be scaled up to innovative treatments for thousands of people. “We conduct ‘first in man’ clinical trials that teach us how and why a treatment works or doesn’t work,” says Miklos, “and then we go back to our colleagues in the lab to rethink our approach based on what we learn in these trials.
“Later, he continues, “pharmaceutical companies could expand our discoveries to provide these sophisticated new treatments to a larger population and to obtain Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for these new drugs, such as CAR-T cell therapy”. He notes that the success of Stanford’s cell therapy research relies on the support of all areas of Stanford medicine: Stanford Hospital, Stanford’s Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital and the Stanford School of Medicine.
Devon C. Wilson
https://amoximed.com
Related Articles
Medicine news
$100 million in contributions to transform UAB School of Medicine – News
Posted on September 28, 2021 February 21, 2022 Author Devon C. Wilson
Record Heersink donation of $95 million to advance strategic growth and biomedical innovation. In recognition of a transformative $95 million gift from Marnix E. Heersink, MD, a longtime supporter of the University of Alabama at Birmingham, the UAB School of Medicine will be called now the UAB Marnix E. Heersink School of Medicine. The record […]
Medicine news
Clinical controversies: Hypertensive ’emergency’ is trash… : Emergency Medicine News
Posted on September 1, 2022 September 5, 2022 Author Devon C. Wilson
Figure: EM best practices, hypertension, hypertensive emergency Figure About 30% of American adults have high blood pressure, and millions of people don’t even know it. Asymptomatic hypertension is high blood pressure without any signs or symptoms of target organ damage. Severe hypertension is often defined as 180/120 mm Hg or higher, and any number above […]
Medicine news
Palaniappan wins the Fulbright Scholar Award | News from the Department of Medicine
Posted on May 18, 2022 May 19, 2022 Author Devon C. Wilson
As recently selected American Fulbright Scholar for the academic year 2022-2023, Latha Palaniappan MD, MSwill travel to Australia to further his research in precision health. Fulbright Scholar Fellowships are esteemed fellowships that involve a rigorous application process and provide a unique opportunity for scholars to teach or conduct research overseas. Past recipients include numerous Nobel […]
Post navigation
Opening of a new student center at the University Health Center – News from the Faculty of Medicine
Letter to the editor: Bronchiolitis Guidelines, tPA Supports… : Emergency Medicine News
Categories
Medicine articles
Medicine courses
Medicine news
Medicine student
access links comments write emergency department emergency medicine emergency physician em news health care links rem news comments reading site rem reading school medicine share article site www www em
Hello! My name is Kirsten Widner, and I am an attorney and PhD candidate in political science at Emory University. I study representation in the policymaking process. My research is driven by a desire to understand how we make public policy for people who lack traditional political power. The seeds of this interest were sown in my work as a lawyer and policy advocate for children in the child welfare and juvenile justice systems.
My dissertation examines the role nonprofit advocacy organizations play in providing political representation for people without the right to vote. For this project, I conducted an original survey of over 600 nonprofit advocacy organizations and in-depth interviews with over 50 of the respondents. I find that the multiple levels of political disadvantage facing the groups that currently lack the right to vote in the United States – children, non-citizens, and people disenfranchised due to felony convictions or mental incapacity – lead the organizations that represent them to emphasize different funding sources and advocacy techniques than organizations representing other groups.
Other projects examine how increasing diversity in state legislatures affects attention to policy issues affecting the most marginalized groups and the role of the courts in protecting the interests of the politically disadvantaged.
Body Builder Whey Protein , Complete Cookies Keto Cookie | Dr Nutrition UAE
Body Builder Whey Protein , Complete Cookies Keto Cookie
Box of 12 Pieces Chocolate Chip
AED 220 AED 320
One serving (one scoop) provides 25 grams of Whey Protein Isolate and Concentrate. Whey Protein Isolate ensures rapid absorption of protein, and Whey Protein Concentrate ensures the protein needs of muscles and body for longer periods.
Contains 19 grams of BCAA's branched-chain amino acids per 100 grams, which plays a key role in increasing protein synthesis and increasing muscle growth in addition to its role in increasing muscle hardness (that is, a scoop contains approximately 7 grams of BCAA).
contains 15 grams of glutamine per 100 grams. Glutamine is the most popular ingredient in the recovery process and relieves exercise pain resulting from muscle demolition processes (that is, a scoop contains 5.3 grams of glutamine)
Contains 5 digestive enzymes that digest proteins, carbohydrates, and lactose, which prevents the occurrence of some unwanted side effects that may occur when using some other proteins, such as some digestive disorders such as bloating and gas. of the existing nutritional components and thus achieve impressive and fast results.
Contains 6 grams of carbohydrates per serving to give the body energy and contribute to muscle growth.
Free Of Cholesterol, Gluten, Wheat, trans fats, artificial colors, and Non-GMO.
Suitable for vegetarians& keto dieters.
- Lenny & Larry's Keto Cookies
Lenny & Larry's Keto Cookie is the newest protein-free snack that contains the best plant-based protein with 3rd generation pure carbohydrates. It's the world's first Lenny & Larry cookie with healthy chocolate chunks and peanut butter. It's also available in three great flavors, Indian Nuts - Chocolate Chips & Peanut butter is a product that helps ketogenic dieters maintain their diet and is considered a suitable food product for athletes, so you can eat this product without fear in your diet
Features of Lenny & Larry Keto Cookie
Dark chocolate with a delicious and distinctive taste
Contains 15 grams of healthy fats, including (Bean Butter - Coconut Oil Rich in MCT Oil)
Does not contain any artificial sweeteners
Free of soy, Gluten, and egg derivatives
Suitable for all types of diets, especially for those following the keto diet, as it is rich in healthy fats and proteins and is free of carbohydrates. It is also intended for athletes.
A first in France: The CRCT - Centre de Recherche Clinique et Translational, a research centre for accelerating medical progress located at the interface between exploratory and clinical research, has just been inaugurated on Tuesday 3 March 2015. It is designed to create a continuum of research and care by bringing together researchers, industrialists and hospital practitioners and providing them with the conditions to take the next steps in the development of biomedical innovations to clinical application. Objective: to promote the transition of new therapies from the laboratory to medical practice and thus accelerate medical progress. For researchers and doctors to work together.
Built in the heart of the Genopole of Evry and close to the Centre Hospitalier Sud Francilien (CHSF), the Centre de Recherche Clinique et Translational (CRCT) Sud Francilien, whose foundation stone was laid on September 12, 2013 and which will open its doors in the fall of 2014, was inaugurated on Tuesday, March 3 by Isabelle This Saint-Jean, President of Genopole® and Vice-President of the Ile-de-France Regional Council in charge of higher education and research, Jérôme Guedj, President of the Essonne General Council, Jean-Pierre Bechter, President of the Seine Essonne Urban Community and Mayor of Corbeil-Essonnes and Pierre Tambourin, President of the CRCT.
"This centre is a first in France, a centre entirely dedicated to so-called 'translational' research". said Pierre Tambourin, Genopole® CEO and Vice President of Medicen Paris Région.
The CRCT, a new model of research organization, is designed as a project hotel, intended to host one-off translational research projects. Pierre Tambourin explains: "We won't rent just walls, but a whole environment. We will set up a network of skills around this centre and we will also provide the scientific environment to support these projects. It is in this spirit that the I-Stem Stem Cell Institute, an Inserm/AFM-Telethon unit highly involved in translational research, will soon be installed in this building. »
- The CHSF, a reference establishment for the south of Ile-de-FranceThe hospital, representing a population of 600,000 inhabitants, has more than 1,000 beds and has had a clinical research platform since its opening in 2012. The CRCT will consolidate the involvement in research of the CHSF's medical teams. The cooperation agreement signed between the CHSF and the Paris-Sud university hospitals opens up joint research prospects.
- The University of Evry-Val-d'Essonne (UEVE), with its 18 laboratories, is a major centre of research in the South of France.. A multidisciplinary and professional university, the UEVE is recognised for the diversity of its training offer and for the quality of its research and excellence in the field of genomics and post-genomics applied to health and industry.
Jérôme Guedj believes that they have in Evry-Corbeil " a pole of international visibility in health, genomics and biotech. The two recently built centers, CRCT and Genethon Bioprod, are two coherent projects that illustrate the success of the Department ". . Confirmed by Isabelle This Saint-Jean : "We are here on a very special site that brings together training, innovation and medicine. So it's not surprising that this original centre is located here. It illustrates a strong, forward-looking dynamic. "
Availability of relevant patient data in all areas of the health care chain
By: ADENOT, Isabelle (Ordre national des pharmaciens, Paris, France)
Many adverse drug events could be prevented if health care professionals had access to all relevant patient data, independantly from where they are stored. Which elements in patient records are essential for safe medication? Is it possible to organize the exchange of data on a national level? Does that indeed improve patient safety?Isabelle ADENOT
