The Concise Oxford Dictionary states that dependence is not being able to do without something. For the purpose of this article, therefore, that would mean not being able to do without opiates.
Opiate dependency is thought to be an offshoot of substance abuse which is noted to result in lost productivity, family problems, and crime. The key player in that scenario has long been recognized as heroin, which is an opiate drug. However, although heroin dependency is still growing alarmingly, prescription pain killers, which are also opiates, is quickly rising to prominence. Prescription pain killers are available through physicians, and are given to persons suffering from chronic pain, who have had surgery, and sickle-cell and cancer patients who need pain relief. This reliance on the pain killers results in a dependence on the opiates.
A distinction has been tried to be made between a person who is an opiate dependent and one who is an opiate addict. It is felt that opiate dependents are not ‘drug addicts’ in the usual sense of the word, since they are persons with real medical ailments, but who find themselves in a similar situation as drug addicts – that of being dependent on the pain killers. In fact, it is felt that these drugs are so addictive that even a small percentage of the doctors who prescribe them become addicts also.
Much of the problems that society is facing today, in terms of crime, are caused by its own reaction to opiate dependency. Opiate dependency was at one time looked on as a condition that did not have a solution. It was viewed as a psychological addictive personality disorder or a dysfunctional family life disorder. The medical community was not keen to find a solution to this hopeless condition, and so they ignored it, refusing to treat it, which has unmistakable repercussions.
For one thing, opiate dependence has, over the years, permeated every generation, strata of society, and culture. Dependents also believed that their characters were flawed and there was no hope of getting away from the agony that the disease caused. They therefore adopted society’s view of them and became criminals or at least social outcasts, rather than seeing themselves as patients in need of help. Lacking human value, therefore, opiate dependents have forced the society to be on the defensive against them.
But there is hope! There is now available an effective treatment for the condition, but both the opiate dependent patients and society as a whole, need to be re-educated. Signs of opiate dependency need to be recognized and the consequences understood. This will hopefully motivate the dependents to seek treatment early, thus preventing the loss of their self esteem, jobs, families, and even their lives.
There is available the Waismann Method known as Rapid Opiate Detox, which is thought to be a proven and safe method of reversing the physical opiate dependency of a patient. The Rapid detox treatment available in a Southern Californian full service hospital is a medical procedure used to rid the body of opiates rapidly. The procedure is performed while the patient is sedated, with the assistance of qualified and experienced Anesthesiologists who are capable of perfecting the treatment.
The Waismann Method of Rapid Detox surpasses the usual detoxification procedures which involve painful withdrawals and are not very successful. It allows most patients to spend less time in hospitals and rehabilitation programs, as they are able to return to a productive life within days of the procedure. It makes use of the most advanced medical biotechnology that is available currently.
The procedure also uses cutting-edge research on opiate dependency both physically and psychologically, and so its success supersedes all the other methods. It is reputed to be able to reverse the physical opiate dependency of a patient without causing unnecessary suffering, shame, or fear in the patients. The procedure neither participates in opiate replacement treatments nor engages in substituting a legal, prescribed dependency, like methadone, for example. As it has successfully treated numerous patients who were suffering from a physical addiction to opiates, from all over the world, there is a steady, weekly inflow of patients from worldwide locations, to the medical hospital in California.
Eligibility Specialist, On-Site Jobs in Hackensack, NJ - nThrive
The Eligibility Specialist works on-site at an nThrive hospital client, partnering with hospital administration to identify financial support options, and assist with the application process, for uninsured or underinsured patients. Financial support options can include Medicare, Medicaid, Disability, or Charity programs. The Eligibility Specialist not only acts as an advocate for the patient, but also serves as a liaison to other internal colleagues and client hospital and government agency staff in a collaborative effort to facilitate eligibility coverage for incurred medical expenses. Responsibilities:
Works directly with the patient or their representative to inquire about the patient's potential eligibility for financial assistance. Provides instructions or works directly with the patient or their representative to complete the appropriate application and acquire all necessary releases, signatures and documents.
Submits the application and supporting documentation to the appropriate institution in accordance with company protocol. Ensures timely and accurate documentation of all notes and encounters in both nThrive's database and the client's database. Informs the patient of all approvals and denials of coverage, if it occurs during the patient's hospital stay.
At least 6 months of experience in a clinical facility such as long-term care, behavioral health, rehabilitation, acute care, ambulatory or similar, or federal or state government agency that deals with social security, Medicaid or charity care, or high volume healthcare accounts receivable. At least 6 months of experience in a role that requires patient interaction, either in person or over the phone.
Experience dealing with multiple databases to document patient interactions and retrieve related information that is important to understand the detail necessary to achieve the desired outcome. Experience working with internal and/or external stakeholders to gather or share information, or to collaborate together to achieve the desired outcome.
Experience working in a role that requires prioritization of multiple critical priorities while ensuring quality and achievement of performance metrics. Demonstrated ability to meet or exceed performance metrics.
Can type at least 40 WPM. Preferred Skills:
nThrive empowers health care for every one in every community by transforming financial and operational performance, enabling health care organizations to thrive. We integrate our knowledge and expertise across the entire revenue cycle and we are accountable to our clients – not payor or provider owners – ensuring unbiased and focused solutions that best meet their needs.
Buy Codeine Online for sale | Call Now +1-850-424-1335 | Order Now
Codeine is a drug which has the effects to cure the problems of mild or moderate pain. The drug can also be used in combination with some other medicines to cure the problem of coughing of a person. Codeine is a type of medicine that belongs to the class of medicines called opiate and antitussives. You can buy Codeine online for the treatment of such moderate pain.
The medication of Codeine can be taken as orally as you buy Codeine online and the prescription with it will also mention instructions. The medicine is taken in every 4 to 6 hours according to the need of yours. You would also require to talk to your doctor and discuss your physical health. If you seem to be not doing well physically or mentally, then your doctor should know this condition. Also, you must know the fact that the medication should stop suddenly once you start the dosage on a regular basis.
Side effects of Codeine:-
In the condition of suffering from any of these side effects after you buy Codeine online, you should stop the dosage immediately and call your doctor for help.
Overdose of the medicine:-
You should never give your medicine to anyone else after you buy Codeine online. A different person might not be having as severe pain as yours. Other people may find their relief with normal painkillers only.
Tagged Buy Codeine online cod, Buy Codeine online forum, Buy Codeine online legally, Buy Codeine online legit, Buy Codeine online with a prescription, can i Buy Codeine online, where can i Buy Codeine online, where can i Buy Codeine online without a prescription
Shoulder Popping: With Pain & Without Pain. What Does It Mean? - Hurmi.com
Home » Joint Pain » Shoulder Popping: With Pain & Without Pain. What Does It Mean?
Bychurmi9// Comments are Off// Joint Pain, Shoulder
Is the shoulder popping mild?
Have you had a shoulder "separation" in the past? A shoulder separation is one in which one or more of the ligaments that connect the collar bone to the shoulder bone have torn.
If your doctor leans toward the "don't worry about it unless it becomes painful" attitude, be sure to point out all of the above that applies to you before you leave his office. Especially in the case of old injuries, even those decades past, shoulder popping can be a sign of progressive bone and tissue degeneration.
Hopefully, your doctor is one of the enlightened few who take symptoms like shoulder popping seriously. Addressing the problem before the onset of pain can make the difference between invasive surgical procedures followed by days of recovery and painful rehabilitation, and getting right to the core of the problem with today's more advanced nonsurgical methods like platelet rich plasma therapy.
PRP therapy's ability to repair and renew tissue, reduce inflammation, and cut recovery time significantly compared to post-surgery times made the procedure an instant darling of professional sports medicine. PRP therapy and other advanced regenerative medicine procedures like stem cell therapy are available at FDA guidelines-compliant stem cell clinics across the United States. If you're experiencing shoulder popping, with or without pain, it is well worth your while to find out if these modern medical methods are better alternatives for you than conventional surgery.
At the forefront of the COVID-19 pandemic, physician anesthesiologists are saving lives - Love Life Labs
Home / Blog / At the forefront of the COVID-19 pandemic, physician anesthesiologists are saving lives
January 31, 2021 By admin Blog No Comments on At the forefront of the COVID-19 pandemic, physician anesthesiologists are saving lives
When COVID-19 reached the U.S. a year ago, physician anesthesiologists rose to the challenge, providing critical frontline care to seriously ill patients, while at the same time developing guidelines for safe care based on ever-evolving knowledge about the deadly virus. Now, as vaccine distribution ramps up and the virus surges again, physician anesthesiologists continue to lead the way to ensure patients receive vital health care such as elective and essential surgery safely — even if patients have tested positive for COVID-19.
Spinal muscular atrophy therapeutics exhibit promising pipeline with approximately 15+ drug candidates published by leading research firm - WhaTech
Spinal muscular atrophy therapeutics exhibit promising pipeline with approximately 15+ drug candidates published by leading research firm
The study analyzed that the therapeutics pipeline comprises approximately 16 drug candidates in different stages of development. Spinal muscular atrophy is defined as the inherited genetic disease that is characterized by a failure of nerve cells called motor neurons.
Motor neurons are responsible to accept the nerve impulses transmitted from the brain to the spinal cord and transmit the impulses to the muscle with the help of peripheral nerves. The loss of motor neurons leads to muscle weakness in muscles that are closest to the trunk of the body such as back, hips and shoulders.
Imago Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is using nucleic acid therapeutics technology platform for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy. Nucleic acid therapeutics technology includes large and innovative class of drugs that can modulate the function of target ribonucleic acid, or RNA, to ultimately affect the production of disease-associated proteins.
Nucleic acid therapeutics comprise of complex mixtures of various chemical entities known as stereoisomers. Some stereoisomers in these mixtures have therapeutic effects, while others are less beneficial or contribute to undesirable side effects.
Uncontrolled stereoisomer drug mixtures can lead to suboptimal efficacy and increased risk and safety concerns.
Some of the other key players developing drugs for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy include Cytokinetics, Inc., F. Hoffman La-Roche Ltd, WAVE Life Sciences Ltd.
The 10 Laws of Tips And How Learn More | Shopping Turbo
It's a sector in the field of medicine that specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of the lower limbs and the feet. This the field of medicine handle ankle issue and problems related to the joints and the toes that might be recurring and in need of a medics attention. Body parts have their specific functions in the human body, but a majority of services are typically performed by the lower part of our bodies ranging from aiding in walking as well as supporting the upper part of the body from the waist upwards.
Doctors who practice podiatry can do it solo or maybe a team member of a medical group. It's A diagnosis that requires a lot of brainstorming and thus the reason behind many podiatrists choosing to work with a group rather than on their own. A patient suffering from podiatry may not only be requiring treatment of the lower part of the body but also other blood-related diseases such as diabetes thus the need for a fully experienced team of doctors. On the contrary, the notion that the podiatrist can only treat conditions regarding the ankle and the feet just has always been wrong as they can also perform surgery for the whole leg. This doctors are not limited to playing medicine, but they can as well carry out a full surgical operation on a patients leg.
Relatively minor conditions are typically referred to podiatric consultation, which includes calluses and corns. These conditions feature the thick, hard skin – which could also be flaky and dry. Most podiatrists perform an operation that gets rid of excess fabric that may, in turn, affect the whole lower body if not eradicated early enough. Podiatrists provide patients with education and awareness so that further injury to the tissue is avoided.
Other treatments that patients can seek further consultation from podiatrists are issues regarding fungal nail infection. Management can either be topical or oral antifungal medications, which may take months before it can entirely get rid of the condition. Plantar fasciitis is another condition that can be treated with a podiatry practice. Its brought about by the swelling of the heel making the walking process very difficult for the patient. The typical signs of this disease is a sharp pain in the heel that can be cured through inflammatory drugs and in severe cases surgery might be required. Certain medical tests might be conducted to ascertain the exact diagnosis for this problem. A podiatry provider can also evaluate injuries of the foot or ankle.
Health Insurance For Today's World - น้ำหอม ชื่อดัง น้ำหอมที่มา น้ำหอมกลิ้นเย้ายวน
Pay very close attention to your health care. Even when covered by a full-fledged medical plan, expenses can get costly, particularly for prescriptions. Some doctors write a prescription without thinking if a cheap generic version. The price of the same medication may vary between different pharmacies.
Do your homework if you're looking into getting catastrophic health insurance.Be sure that the insurance will cover your needs regarding catastrophic events. You should also set up a good alternative coverage option for those events that insurance will not cover.
TIP! When you go to switch your insurance policy, make sure to get all the information about your current plan. Some of the things you need to know include: deductible rates, types of medical costs covered, annual payment rates, etc.
Even if you have an exclusively indoor pet, it is a very good idea to get pet health insurance. There always exists the possibility of your pet accidentally ingesting something poisonous or becoming injured indoors, basically anything may happen. Even when they live indoors, the potential for physical harm to your pet exists that would result in costly trips to the vet.
There are a wide variety of options available to you when purchasing health insurance. Prior to meeting your insurance agent, or even talking to an insurance agent, invest the time necessary to understand all of the possibilities. Don't choose anything until you thoroughly comprehend the implications of each policy available.
If you get along well with your doctor and trust him, you will have to make sure that your health insurance policy will permit you to keep seeing him. Ask your doctor if there is a particular insurance he accepts or participates in.
Do you find yourself full of questions about the policy works? You can always reach your health provider with a phone call. Most insurance companies have a customer service available via the phone to assist with someone about your policy. Customer service representatives could give you specific information that will save you aggravation and money.
TIP! Take advantage of the "free look" policy option. This will enable you to use the policy for between 10 and 30 days, and literally test it out.
People don't know how to find information about ผลบอลสด online. This material will give you some great info about ผลบอลสด. Now is the time to take the knowledge you have gained and apply it to your life!
Tagscustomer servicehealth insurance planshealth insurance policyinsurance agentpurchasing health insurance
Types of Thyroid Cancer Treatment | MD Anderson Cancer Center
Our Treatment Approach Steven Sherman, M.D., discusses thyroid cancer treatment options with a patient. Dr. Sherman is exploring novel treatments for patients with metastatic thyroid cancer.When you have thyroid cancer, it is important to be treated by experts with a high level of expertise. Our program is one of the most active, which means MD Anderson's physicians are some of the most skilled and experienced in the nation.Surgery is often part of the treatment for thyroid cancer. Like all surgeries, thyroid cancer surgery is most successful when performed by a specialist with a great deal of experience in the particular procedure.For some patients, robotic surgery and minimally invasive approaches may help maintain appearance.Because we are one of the nation's foremost cancer centers, we offer a number of clinical trials of innovative new therapies.If you are diagnosed with thyroid cancer, your doctor will discuss the best options to treat it. This depends on several factors, including:Type of thyroid cancerSize of the noduleYour age and healthStage of cancerYour treatment for thyroid cancer will be customized to your particular needs. In most cases of differentiated (papillary and follicular) thyroid cancer, two or more of these methods may be used. Most patients with medullary thyroid cancer are treated with surgery only. Patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer may be treated with chemotherapy and radiation therapy, or they may be candidates for a clinical trial.If you have been diagnosed with thyroid cancer, we're here to help. Call 1-877-632-6789 to make an appointment or request an appointment online. Make Your First Appointment
SurgeryMost people with thyroid cancer are treated with surgery. Many also are treated with additional methods.The surgery most likely will be one of the following:Total thyroidectomy: The entire thyroid is removedLobectomy: Only the side of the thyroid where the tumor is located is removed. This type of surgery may be used for papillary cancers smaller than 1 centimeter (about ½ inch) that have not spread.Lymph nodes in the area of the tumor or in the neck and/or chest also may be removed.If your entire thyroid gland is removed, you will take thyroid hormone replacement pills daily for the rest of your life.Surgical teams at MD Anderson offer a variety of minimally invasive techniques for thyroid surgery, including minimally invasive video-assisted thyroid (MIVAT) surgery and robotic thyroid surgery through transaxillary and facelift incisions.Radiation TherapyNew radiation therapy techniques and remarkable skill allow MD Anderson doctors to target tumors more precisely, delivering the maximum amount of radiation with the least damage to healthy cells.The type of radiation used depends on the type and stage of your cancer. Thyroid cancer may be treated with:Radioactive iodine: You drink a liquid or swallow a pill that contains radioactive iodine, which collects in thyroid tissue and destroys cancer cells. This method also is used to eliminate any thyroid cells in other parts of the body remaining after thyroidectomy or thyroid cancer.If radioactive iodine is used after surgery, you may be asked to discontinue your thyroid hormone medicine to make the iodine more effective. This can sometimes be uncomfortable. A newer method gives thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) by injection and does not require stopping thyroid medicine. Women should not become pregnant for six months to a year after radioactive iodine treatment.External beam radiation: This type of therapy is most effective for thyroid cancers that do not absorb iodine, including anaplastic thyroid cancer. It may be used to fight thyroid cancer cells remaining after surgery or if cancer spreads to the bones.Thyroid Hormone TherapyThis treatment uses thyroid hormone pills to stop the growth of cancer cells. In papillary or follicular thyroid cancer, hormone treatment may be used to lower the level of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), which may help stop the cancer from coming back. In other thyroid cancers, it may be used to keep thyroid hormone levels normal.ChemotherapyChemotherapy often is used in combination with external beam radiation therapy to treat anaplastic thyroid cancer. It is usually not effective in other types of thyroid cancer.Our Clinical TrialsBecause we are one of the world's premier cancer centers, MD Anderson participates in many clinical trials (research studies) for thyroid cancer. Sometimes they are your best option for treatment. Research studies may also help researchers learn how to treat cancer and improve the future of cancer treatment.To find out more about clinical trials at MD Anderson for thyroid cancer, visit our Clinical Trials database or speak to your doctor. Our Publications
A new study used animal models to investigate why 50% of people develop chronic heart failure after experiencing a heart attack.
Researchers found that iron deposits following heart attack lead to the formation of fatty tissue in the heart, which causes chronic heart failure.
They also found that drugs that remove iron may mitigate some symptoms of chronic heart failure.
The findings from the study could pave the way toward treatments that mitigate chronic heart failure following a heart attack.
A heart attack occurs when a blood clot blocks blood flow to the heart. Around 1 million people in the United States experience a heart attack each year.
Medical and surgical reperfusion treatments can reopen blocked arteries and save lives. Nevertheless, around 50% of individuals who have a heart attack subsequently develop chronic heart failure and die within 5 years.
Increasing evidence suggests that heart attack can lead to chronic iron deposition and a buildup of pro-inflammatory immune cells.
Other research shows that fat deposition in the heart attack zone is also common and is linked to impaired cardiac function. It remains unknown how fat deposition around the heart attack scar happens.
Understanding more about how chronic heart failure develops post-heart attack could pave the way for new treatment and prevention strategies.
In a new study, researchers investigated canine models of heart attack and reperfusion.
The researchers found that iron buildup precedes the formation of fatty tissue in the heart, which in turn leads to chronic heart failure. They also found that drugs that remove iron from the body could mitigate signs of chronic heart failure following a heart attack.
“The implications of the study suggest a mechanism leading to heart failure, which could potentially be altered to improve outcomes and survival,” Dr. William Kessler, board certified cardiothoracic surgeon with Cardiothoracic & Vascular Surgeons, not involved in the study, told Medical News Today.
The study was recently published in Nature Communications.
The link between iron buildup and heart failure
For the study, the researchers studied a canine model. All the animals had a heart attack, but some also bled into the heart muscle afterward, one of the most common and damaging injuries to the heart after a heart attack.
They monitored the dogs over the next six months with cardiac MRI, microscope evaluations, and Western blot analysis, a way of separating and identifying proteins.
The researchers gave some of the dogs with bleeding into their heart muscles an iron chelator — a drug that removes excess iron from the body — for 8 weeks after they had a heart attack. The remaining dogs did not receive the drug and were kept as controls.
From cardiac MRI imaging, the researchers found that iron deposition in the heart was higher in dogs with a bleed into the heart muscle after a heart attack. They also found that the elevated iron levels remained approximately constant from 3 days to 6 months after the heart attack.
They also found that fat deposition is characteristic of a heart attack and that levels of fat deposition correlate with iron buildup.
Chelators significantly reduced iron and fat buildup and correlated with positive anatomical and functional recovery.
“A heart attack occurs when a blockage occurs when one of the small arteries supplying the heart muscle itself, called a coronary artery blockage, “ Dr. Ronald Grifka, clinical professor of pediatric cardiology and chief medical officer at the University of Michigan Health-West, not involved in the study, told MNT.
“The blockage usually is caused by a buildup of cholesterol and then a small blood clot. This blockage results in reduced blood flow to an area of the heart, which results in a “bruise“ of the heart muscle in this area, very similar to a bruise we might have in an arm or leg muscle. A bruise is a small collection of red blood cells inside the muscle. When all bruises resolve, those red blood cells are broken down, leaving small iron deposits in the muscle.”
– Dr. Ronald Grifka, cardiologist
The researchers noted, however, that after the chelator treatment ceased, iron and fat content began to increase, although to a lesser extent than in the untreated control group.
The researchers noted that their findings suggest a causal relationship between iron buildup following a heart attack and fat deposition in the heart.
What are the effects of chelating iron?
Dr. Richard Wright, a cardiologist at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, not involved in the study, told MNT that chelating iron might have a “substantial downside.”
“It is well known that patients with chronic heart failure often have a deficiency of iron within their beating heart cells and that such reductions aggravate the heart failure state,” Dr. Wright explained.
“Indeed in such individuals, replacement of iron leads to improvement in their heart function, and hence chelation of iron in this situation would be expected to be detrimental, not helpful.”
“It is not possible to direct chelation therapy to the injured part of the heart, while simultaneously sparing the functional part of the heart. Hence in someone with a large heart attack, initial hemorrhage into that damaged portion of the heart, and inflammation in that segment (perhaps amplified by iron released from the hemorrhage), iron chelation could be harmful if the patient has already developed heart failure,” he added.
– Dr. Richard Wright, cardiologist
More research needed in humans
When asked about the study’s limitations, Dr. Grifka noted that as this study was performed on dogs, it remains to be seen whether similar findings may be replicated in humans.
In addition, Dr. Wright said that the study does not answer the question of whether iron levels should be limited or increased following a heart attack.
He further noted that as most heart attacks are relatively small, the data from this study may not apply to all individuals who’ve had a heart attack. He concluded:
“Further research could potentially distinguish which patients, if any, might have improved outcomes by manipulating iron — perhaps by routine use of cardiac MRI.”
Implications for chronic heart failure
The researchers concluded that their findings explain why some, but not all, heart attacks develop into chronic heart failure.
“This paper outlines an extremely interesting hypothesis that certain heart attacks will result in fatty deposition, chronic deterioration, and heart failure,” Dr. Kessler said.
“Bleeding into the tissues of some heart attacks lays down iron which becomes the substrate for an inflammatory reaction, ultimately leading to the pathological conversion of tissue to fat. This fat, in turn, leads to the pathological development of dysfunctional heart tissue and congestive heart failure,” he added.
The researchers also noted that their findings also might help define potential therapeutic strategies to mitigate chronic heart failure following a heart attack.
“This fat and scar tissue does not ‘squeeze’ like normal heart muscle, resulting in heart failure,” noted Dr. Grifka.
“Administering a medicine that helps remove the iron deposits from the heart muscle results in less scar tissue formation, better heart function, and preventing heart failure.”
Source: Read Full Article
No related posts.
Post navigation
Previous Post:Two supplements tied to a build-up of needle-shaped crystals in joints
Next Post:Instant noise reduction for pneumatic equipment
Medications
KHN’s ‘What the Health?’: Kansas Makes a Statement
04/08/2022
With Overdose Deaths Surging, Advocates on the Ground Push for Over-the-Counter Naloxone
14/12/2021
3 States Limit Nursing Home Profits in Bid to Improve Care
25/10/2021
Health News
Covid protein kills aggressive lung tumors in lab studies
US Backs Delay to Decision on COVID Patent Waiver Extension
SARS-CoV-2 Seroprevalence Grew Rapidly in Canada
Family Health News
If You Dont Know THIS, Your Weight Loss Diet Wont Work
Experts Claim This New Therapy May Treat Your Peanut Allergies!
Pizza Is More Nutritious Than Cereal for Breakfast, According to this Nutritionist
Kids Health News
Meghan Trainor’s Toddler Son Is a Merry ‘Superstar’ in His Mom’s Latest Music Video
02/12/2022
Snoop Dogg Snuggled With His Grandkids While Wearing Matching SKIMS PJs in Rare 3-Generation Family Photos
