Researchers developing new 'DNA stitch' to treat muscular dystrophy – Innovita Research
Researchers developing new 'DNA stitch' to treat muscular dystrophy
A new therapeutic being tested by University of Alberta researchers is showing early promise as a more effective treatment that could help nearly half of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD).
The treatment—a cocktail of DNA-like molecules—results in dramatic regrowth of a protein called dystrophin, which acts as a support beam to keep muscles strong. The protein is virtually absent in those with DMD.
"In muscle, if there is no dystrophin there is no support of muscle membrane, and the muscle cells will become easily damaged or destroyed," said Toshifumi Yokota, a professor of medical genetics at the U of A. "Our DNA-like molecules restore the production of dystrophin so it can support the muscle cell membrane.
U of A medical geneticist Toshifumi Yokota is testing a new treatment for Duchenne muscular dystrophy that acts like a stitch to repair a genetic mutation in patients with the debilitating disease. (Photo: Jordan Carson/University of Alberta)
"Theoretically, this treatment could treat as many as 47 per cent of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy."
The condition is a genetic disorder characterized by progressive muscle degeneration and weakness. The incurable condition causes difficulty in walking and breathing as the muscles and heart are gradually damaged. Many will die from the condition in their 20s or 30s.
In a study published in Molecular Therapy, Yokota and his team describe using a mix of DNA-like molecules—called antisense oligonucleotides—to act like a stitch that could repair a specific gene mutation in patients with DMD. The molecules were tested in both human muscle cells of patients with DMD and in mice containing the human DMD gene.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the first drug of this class of "DNA stitch," called eteplirsen, in 2016. However, the drug is only applicable to about 13 per cent of DMD patients.
Yokota's team designed the cocktail of molecules to theoretically expand the applicability of the therapy to just under half of all DMD patients. The experimental treatment may also significantly improve the symptoms experienced by patients.
"Our treatment produces a shorter dystrophin protein than the drug being used now. This shorter protein is associated with extremely mild symptoms in some of the muscular dystrophy patients. Some have almost no symptoms at all," explained Yokota.
The researchers are now working to reduce the number of DNA-like molecules in the cocktail to reduce both cost and regulatory hurdles moving forward. They hope to progress the work to a clinical trial in the future.
Can Herbs Treat High Creatinine after Kidney Transplant-Kidney Failure
Can Herbs Treat High Creatinine after Kidney Transplant
2014-01-05 00:06
We will not deny that a successful kidney transplant can help improve the life expectancy greatly, but it is a fact that some cases relapse after a period of time of such an operation. However, can herbs treat high creatinine after kidney transplant.
In the clinic, cases like IgA Nephropathy, lupus nephritis and FSGS have high relapse rate. If we leave out other factors, once high creatinine level and high blood pressure appear, we will say the condition is very likely to relapse. The creatinine level will not increase until about 50% of kidney function is lost. If you do not want to receive the second kidney transplant, choose a proper way to reduce your high creatinine levels.
High creatinine level is just one of symptoms of kidney damage and impaired kidney function. So the best way to lower high creatinine level becomes making kidneys work normally again. It is true that some herbs can treat high creatinine level.
Some Chinese herbs with the functions of anti-inflammation, anti-coagulation, degradation, extending blood vessels, relieving ischemic and anoxic state in kidneys, promoting DNA replication and providing nutrition for damaged kidneys are used to repair kidney damage and gradually recover renal function. With the recovery of kidney function, kidneys can work normally again to remove wastes and toxins out of the body, thus making high creatinine level go back to normal range of creatinine naturally.
According to patients'own condition, experts will choose the proper herbs to treat high creatinine level by saving kidneys. If you are interested in these herbs, feel free to leave us a message below, we will surely reply you within 48 hours.
Alma, a Sisram Medical Company, Announces Launch of Soprano Titanium at IMCAS, Paris - Reinventing Laser Hair Removal, Again
NURNBERG, Germany, January 31, 2019 /PRNewswire/ --
Alma, one of the top five global leaders of energy-based medical and aesthetic solutions, today announced global launch of its new hair removal platform, Soprano Titanium, redefining the gold formula to laser hair removal: Speed-efficacy-comfort.
Soprano Titanium by Alma, reinventing laser hair removal, again (PRNewsfoto/Alma Lasers)
(Photo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/812308/Alma_Lasers.jpg )
Soprano Titanium presents an exceptional treatment experience and enhanced productivity to all stakeholders - platform owner, treatment practitioner and patient with the combination of four superior and proprietary technologies:
3D, Simultaneous lasing of the three most effective laser wavelengths for hair removal (755nm, 810nm and 1064nm)
Quattro™, an extra-large spot size covering an enormous grid of 600-900 cm2, shortening treatment time by 40%
ICE Plus™, the most advanced cooling system, combining TEC and Inverter cooling technologies to offer an unparallel treatment experience for the patient
Smart Clinic, a cloud-based business development tool, enhancing management processes, reflecting real time platform status and productivity, driving optimization and standardization and empowering business decisions with genuine data and statistics
Soprano Titanium's superior feature-set is further enhanced with dual connectors, enabling sequential usage of two separate applicators, simplifying and shortening treatment procedures.
"We are thrilled to launch our new hair removal platform - Soprano Titanium, reinventing laser hair removal technology and practice. Alma is globally known for its groundbreaking hair removal technologies over the last 12 years, starting with the introduction of the SHR™ treatment method which changed the industry paradigm, through 3D, the first ever diode combining three laser wavelengths into one applicator, covering the entire scope of hair removal (addressing all skin types, various hair colors and hair follicle depths, etc.) and now, with the introduction of Quattro™, ICE Plus™ and Smart Clinic innovations," said Lior Dayan, Alma's CEO.
Soprano Titanium is not only a technology masterpiece, it's also a design icon, inside and out - from the new graphical user interface to the new exterior design. Join us at IMCAS, Paris, January 31st, booth #107 to catch a first glimpse at Soprano Titanium.
Human XCR1/Gi Stable Cell Line-CHO CSC-RG0520 - Creative BioMart
Human XCR1/Gi Stable Cell Line-CHO
Cat.No.: CSC-RG0520
Background: Chemokines and their receptors play a vital role in the regulation of responses in the immune system and in the recruitment of certain lymphocytes. The human chemokine receptor XCR1 is a G-protein-coupled receptor with 333 amino acids. Specifically, XCR1 has been associated with the induction of chemotaxis and has been identified in neutrophils, t-lymphocytes, b-lymphocytes through RT-PCR.
Cell Line Validation: 1. Gene expression: qPCR experiments determined specific silencing of human XCR1.2. Protein expression: XCR1 in this cell line has been validated by immunocytochemical staining.
Function: G-protein coupled receptor activity; chemokine receptor activity; receptor activity; signal transducer activity;
Emergency backup generators for a local hospital headquarters and data center. To prevent the loss of data and patient services, two large diesel generators were installed in the downtown headquarters building. After setting the generators, the manufacturer contracted United Mechanical Inc to design, fabricate and install the welded steel exhaust manifold and the diesel fuel piping and buffer tanks. Patient care and information is now secure even during a prolonged power outage.
Neurontin gabapentina para que sirve - Gabapentin is it addictive - Quilting Iowa
As we know, there are many drugs, including the nolvadex 20mg side effects of the nolvadex 20mg side effects, the nolvadex 20mg side effects, the nolvadex 20mg side effects of daily use, and so on. The four humors are blood, yellow bile, black bile.
Telabastagan Periactin is in clinical use as a short-term tocolytic during routine second-trimester in vitro fertilization. Lexapro 10 mg tablet the federal government, meanwhile, is seeking to get more of the drug back on the streets. The australian study has been accepted for publication yellow capsule d 03 in the journal bmc psychiatry. Treatment with doxycycline for any infection may also cause your dog to lose appetite, become lethargic, and have a fever. A lot of women are unable to make decisions about their reproductive lives unless they are able to work gabapentin is it addictive with a healthcare provider and feel safe doing so. If you use an over-the-counter drug for these purposes, a physician should be consulted. It is india's leading manufacturer of pharmaceutical and medical device products, with a strong pipeline of growth-enhancing technologies and processes. These neurontin side effects xerostomia products contain heavy metals and can cause serious illness. Nelogično je to, zakako kaže nam je u istarskoj boravku, izabrana jedna od najvećih zrakoplovnih cesta u svijetu, zatim i posao ivomec super 500ml price kao da dođe s mrtvom i drugim namirnima.
Ţayyibat al Imām The site provides an order form and sends a verification email to the gabapentin is it addictive recipient. A study in kenya reported efficacy of up to 91% in patients with strongyloidiasis. Voltaren tablets contain more than 98% pure active ingredients which include a variety of analges. This drug can be gabantin 300 uses effective in treating constipation. It is taken orally, and it helps keep neurontin dosage peripheral neuropathy you awake and focused. It is also used to treat bacterial vaginosis (bv) and vag. The following is the answer you failed to give us at the start of your job application:. I am a professional woman, who has always used my head. The most significant thing about stromectol pris norge is that it can help. Can the doxycycline liquid be used for dogs can buy cheap doxycycline canada the case involved a 17-year-old boy with no history of asthma in the new orleans area, a family history of asthma, and doxycycline powder for sale in canada a history of allergic problems.
http://erapa.co.uk/sleeve-wrapping-auto-pusher/ Cannabis is an essential part of the human diet, and it plays a role in. The symptoms of this type of cancer consist of severe weight loss, severe bone pain, The study used both cell (human keratinocytes) and cellular (keratinocyte cell line) models on which to examine the mechanism of action of ciprofloxacin picaturi auriculare with the hope of leading to the development of new agents with greater antimicrobial. Men ivermectin 2mg who use can be said to be working hard, however, they just do not receive their full amount, their physical strength is not even half of what they have. Buy discount lisinopril hydrochloride 150 mg - order lisinopril neurontin is used for hydrochloride 150 mg from buyersdirect.com and save big! It is effective against the parasitic roundworm, which causes a wide range of diseases. Vi sono molte cose che ci sono più utili di quello che ne pensate, e a volte dimentichiamo che c'è un altro uso di ciò che sembrano solo di nuovo le cose divertenti. Celivan celexa online no prescription from this pharmacy only with a valid prescription from the manufacturer. On january 11, 2011, the food and drug administration released an advisory regarding a possible "liver injury" caused by lisinopril, a common medication used to treat heart failure. The erythromycin tablets for sale online in germany erythromycin is used to treat the bacterial infection known as streptococcal pharyngitis, and is available gabapentin 800 mg price with different strengths, including those for children and those that act against streptococcal infections. Generic lexapro from canadaintertainment.com.buy generic lexapro overnight delivery reviews. You can gabapentin is it addictive also use it in the long run to get your desired results.
http://debenhamdental.co.uk/api/connect/like.php This will slow down the blood flow to the liver and increase the parasites' survival in the liver. Ivermectin have never had a better time in the last twelve months, with plenty of hype for ivermectin and a lot gabapentin 300 mg goodrx of hype against ivermectin. It's just what it says it's for all your information to use. A randomized, double-blind, crossover method was used, and data for 12 patients, all taking at least one drug, were analyzed. When you are taking plavix, your doctor may decide to increase your dose if the effect lasts longer than 8 weeks, or when side effects limit the effect of the medication. Cheapest place to buy celebrex in uk with discount price! Many veterinarians and animal owners recommend testing dogs for heartworm disease, as the disease is fatal if left untreated, and because heartworm prevention is the best way to keep the disease in check. Levitra coupons 20 mg for sale the government has also been pressing for the introduction gabapentin is it addictive of a range of measures to make the u.s. Generic antifungal medications in the form of pills are often called "over-the-counter" (otc) drugs - they are otc as opposed to prescription medications that require a doctor's gabapentin for dogs for sale prescription. Generic viagra (sildenafil citrate) is used to treat erectile dysfunction in men.
You can also request a prescription for nexium without a prior examination, with no need for medical or surgical intervention, or other medical testing. Valtrex shelf life is determined in part by the manufacturing process. It is important for dogs to protect their skin from irritation, which is one of the top reasons why they scratch. Rashes can often occur because of the drugs in gabapentin for anxiety reddit gastroesophage. It has proven to be one of the most effective para que sirve el gabapentin de 100 mg drugs when compared with all other pharmaceutical products, as well as a good choice for gabapentin is it addictive individuals in search of quick relief from anxiety and depression. The tetracyclines are chemically unrelated to the quinolones. Improvements in their ability to focus during normal activity. I'm a social robot and always need to be the center of attention.
We are all looking for an answer to an unanswered question. For instance, which of the many insecticides that are available on the market can you use to kill s. Online pharmacies that are not registered can be very dangerous for gabapentin is it addictive people who are prone to seizures. Its effect is due to the combination of estrogen e 2 of two estrogen-like drugs, tamoxifen and raloxifene, marketed as anerpres. Most patients who have used it have been unable to lose their hair. gabapentin with benadryl You can consult an herbalist or herbal expert, or you can have them prepare herbal preparations according to your needs. It is used in the treatment of infections caused by bacteria. These may include respiratory depression and hypotension. Ivermectin korygami-joki-pilsu-tumor-disease-or-bile-in-the-stomach-pancreas-and-bile-in-the-liver This population is expected to grow 1.3% annually over the next 15 para que sirve el medicamento neurontin 400 mg years. Pfizer coupon for 30% off on viagra, cialis and levitra. If you prefer to buy online you will then need to select.
In addition, a placebo group is included in the study. The patient was a 26-year-old male who was being evaluated as part of his workup for a possible pelvic mass. The microfilariae, through the formation of the microfilarial wall, act as an immunogen, and the release of antigens into the host circulatory system is inhibited. These eye drops are designed to kill the bacteria inside the eye and prevent reinfection. The use of ivermectin injections has been gabapentin 300mg cost banned in the european union and japan. Motilium is the only prescription for pain relief and muscle spasms on the world wide web. It is used to prevent heart attack and stroke in people who are at increased risk of stroke or heart attack. While fda regulations neurontin tablet uses on drug labeling are in place, the drug enforcement agency (dea) also enforces the same laws. Ivermectin for animals the label must state gabapentin is it addictive that the drug is to. You must be 21 years of age to order genuine kamagra.
One of the main considerations for the choice of hospital is the injury you sustained or the medical problem you experienced. Based on the assessments by the paramedics, recommendations will be made as to the most appropriate facility to treat you. … Trauma centers are the most common type of specialty hospitals.
Do ambulances transport dead bodies?
Death in an Ambulance – transportation of patient’s body A. In the event of a patient death in an ambulance, the body shall be transported to the original destination hospital if the call was originally from a scene to a hospital or from a facility to a hospital (transfer).
What happens when an ambulance arrives at the hospital?
The patient may receive oxygen, medications, ECG monitoring, fluid administration or a host of other interventions. If the patient is conscious, treatment options should be discussed with both the patient and family members. EMS will generally transport to the hospital designated by the patient.
THIS IS IMPORTANT: What is an EMT First Responder?
What is Level 4 ambulance?
Responding to 999 and urgent calls, and providing emergency care for people as part of an ambulance crew. Qualification level 4. Equivalent to higher national certificate (HNC).
What is a Class 4 emergency?
Emergency (Paramedic or Intensive Care Paramedic) 4. Urgent. No. Emergency (Paramedic or Intensive Care Paramedic)
Do ambulances take you to the nearest hospital?
Patients can ask an ambulance to go to a specific hospital even if it is on diversion. The ambulance will take a patient where he or she requests — unless, in the view of the paramedic crew, doing so violates local or state protocol or would endanger the patient.
How do ambulances communicate with hospitals?
Any certified ambulance must have operational communications equipment in accordance with part 800.22(e) which states, “ALL AMBULANCES SHALL: have two-way voice communication equipment to provide communication with hospital emergency departments directly or through a dispatcher, throughout the duration of an ambulance …
Will an ambulance take you to the hospital of your choice in NYC?
The EMS or the city ambulances take patients to the nearest hospital within a 10-minute radius from their location of pick up. Private ambulances will take patients to any hospital of their choice.
Categories Urgent Care
Search for:
From the author
Hello everybody! This is a blog about an ambulance for illnesses. I hope it will be useful for people who need an ambulance and information on how to help themselves in an emergency. I am an emergency doctor and I know how important it is to be aware of which medications will help with acute pain.
About us
Contact
Privacy Policy & Cookies
ATTENTION TO RIGHT HOLDERS! All materials are posted on the site strictly for informational and educational purposes! If you believe that the posting of any material infringes your copyright, be sure to contact us through the contact form and your material will be removed!
Hdl Cholesterol Level 100 – Cholesterol
Hdl Cholesterol Level 100
Cholesterol is among the most common components of foods we consume. It offers many functions in our bodies, however its main function is to generate bile acids that aid in the digestion of fat. Therefore, it is frequently described as "the quiet killer." Hdl Cholesterol Level 100
The majority of people should aim to keep their cholesterol under 200 milligrams/deciliter (mg/dl), or regarding 5.2 millimols/litre (mmol/L), if you have a genetic history of heart disease or you go to a high risk for establishing a stroke or a heart problem. The National cholesterol guidelines given by the American Heart Association suggest that lots of people get their cholesterol within the recommended array. However, some individuals need to make every effort much more difficult than others to achieve cholesterol levels that will help them live a long and healthy life. Hdl Cholesterol Level 100
If your healthcare provider makes a recommendation for therapy, he might suggest several sorts of cholesterol testing. The first choice is called fasting lipid profile. In this procedure, your healthcare provider takes a sample of your blood using a non-penetrated skin hook. Your doctor then determines your triglycerides, high thickness lipoproteins, high pressure in your arteries, and also reduced thickness lipoproteins. Hdl Cholesterol Level 100
If you take every one of these right into factor to consider, then your doctor can determine exactly how healthy and balanced you are. He can additionally prescribe a medicine that is created especially to reduced cholesterol. An additional alternative would certainly be a combination of medications. Some individuals prefer to take a natural cholesterol medication together with a day-to-day workout regimen and a healthy and balanced way of life adjustments program. If you do choose to utilize cholesterol reducing medications, make sure to follow your medical professional's orders carefully. Your healthcare provider might additionally desire you to undertake greater than one kind of therapy.
There are other alternatives if your doctor feels that other approaches of therapy are not working. One such option is to take statins. The purpose of taking statins is to lower the quantity of cholesterol that develops in your blood. Although statins do have side effects, they are the most safe of all offered treatments for individuals struggling to control cholesterol.
While doctors are uncertain precisely what states might do to your body, there are certain manner ins which it can enhance your danger for a cardiac arrest. For instance, people who have high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure go to higher threat for a heart attack. If you already have cardiovascular disease, after that you are currently at better danger. Statins can help you lower these threat variables as well.
If your physician thinks that you have very high LDL cholesterol levels, after that he might prescribe a drug called atheroma renolone to reduce them. Nevertheless, atheroma does come with some major negative effects, consisting of vision troubles, looseness of the bowels, and vomiting. Individuals with very high triglycerides and low good cholesterol levels are not candidates for this type of treatment since triglycerides are a harmful material in their bloodstream. While it can lower LDL cholesterol levels, it will increase HDL cholesterol, which is the good cholesterol.
The reason that statins raise the threat for a heart attack is because they disrupt the blood vessel activity in your body. As your arteries end up being blocked, they won't have the ability to transfer the nutrients that they require. Without a raised blood circulation, the plaque accumulation will start, which will result in a severe cardiovascular disease. Because of this, individuals that take statins to reduce their blood cholesterol levels are in fact at an enhanced risk for a cardiovascular disease.
Obviously, you don't actually wish to experience a cardiovascular disease, yet using statins can absolutely elevate your danger. One of the side effects of taking these medicines is that you will experience muscle weak point. While this symptom is just light and won't impact your ability to work, it absolutely isn't anything you want to deal with. Opposite results consist of diarrhea, tiredness, nausea, and a boost in the regularity of colds. Some individuals have actually even defined the exhaustion that they really feel as approaching going to completion phase of cancer cells.
If you are considering beginning therapy, speak with your doctor regarding the possible negative effects as well as threats. Statins are suggested by physicians all over the globe and also are typically offered to people that have high LDL cholesterol levels. Naturally, you must always discuss all choices with your physician prior to starting any type of type of medication, particularly if you have kidney illness or various other significant clinical issues.
The bottom line is that there are many different things you can do to reduce your overall cholesterol, including your diet regimen, workout, weight reduction, and enhanced consumption of foods that are high in HDL, or great cholesterol. Trans fats located in some popular dining establishments are a problem for many individuals and should be avoided ideally. Additionally, you ought to try to consume as healthy and balanced of a diet regimen as possible, preventing fatty foods and consuming even more foods that are high in protein. These foods are not only helpful for you, however are also very simple to discover, which makes controlling your cholesterol relatively very easy.
Executive Council votes down Planned Parenthood funding request, 3-2 | Manchester Ink Link
HomeGovernmentExecutive Council votes down Planned Parenthood funding request, 3-2
Executive Council votes down Planned Parenthood funding request, 3-2
Wednesday, August 5, 2015 Carol Robidoux Government 0
MANCHESTER, NH – A contract for $638,000 in state funding for Planned Parenthood was voted down by the Executive Council 3-2 on Wednesday.
The agenda item, which was divided into two requests for funding by Planned Parenthood of Northern New England for two of its New Hampshire offices, in Claremont and Manchester, were the only requests that failed under agenda item 18, which granted approval for funding to three other organizations – $179,800 for Concord Feminist Health Center; $134,200 for the Joan G. Lovering Health Center; and $117,100 for the Weeks Medical Center.
The funding request included $385,000 for the Manchester Planned Parenthood office to cover family planning, clinical services, health and sexual education programs, cancer and pregnancy screening and STD screening and treatment.
An attempt by Manchester Ink Link to reach the New England office of Planned Parenthood for comment Wednesday was unsuccessful. However, the organization has said prior to the vote that the reduced funding would mean a reduction of vital services to low-income and uninsured women.
The vote was divided along party lines, with Republican councilors Joseph Kenney from District 1, Christopher Sununu from District 3 and David Wheeler from District 5 voting against the funding. Democrats Colin van Ostern, from District 2, and Christopher Pappas, from District 4 voted in favor of the funding.
The Councilors voting down the measure cited recent national controversy over handling of fetal tissue by Planned Parenthood. According to Politifact, New Hampshire is among those states that do not have a tissue donation program.
Sununu, who cast the deciding vote, issued the following statement Wednesday afternoon:
"Today I cast the deciding vote on the Executive Council to oppose taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood in New Hampshire. In the past, I supported funding for Planned Parenthood as a provider of reproductive health services in my district. However, investigations into potential criminal activity on both a federal and multi-state level have convinced me to withdraw that support.
"Serious ethical and legal questions have been raised nationally about Planned Parenthood. New Hampshire would not even be considering approving such a contract if it were not for the political influence that Planned Parenthood has. There is precedent for rejecting state contracts when the applicant has been under investigation and surrounded by controversy, and given the sensitivity and seriousness of this issue, Planned Parenthood should be held to a similar standard of scrutiny.
"The Executive Council has asked Governor Hassan and her Attorney General Joseph Foster to formally investigate the matter to ensure no illegal activity has occurred. Yesterday the Governor refused that request once again confirming her need to place politics ahead of integrity and accountability in New Hampshire.
"Today, I again called on Governor Hassan to find alternatives to Planned Parenthood in parts of our state where there currently are none. New Hampshire should provide alternatives for women so they can make the best choice for themselves and their families. Unfortunately, the Governor rejected my request to promote choice for women and their health care needs. I will continue working with the Commissioner of Health and Human Services to provide leadership and identify alternative health care providers.
Proscia, the pioneer in the development and advancement of digital pathology, has closed a $8 million round of Series A financing from a group of East and West Coast venture capital firms.
Proscia CEO David West Jr. discusses the upward trend of digital pathology adoption over the last year, the top 3 reasons labs start to incorporate digital pathology, and how adoption pace and process differ amongst large and small companies.
Industry's most flexible digital pathology platform can now tightly integrate elements of even the most intricate anatomic pathology laboratory operations.
Proscia CEO, David West Jr. provides insight on the growing influence of digital pathology and how the adoption of artificial intelligence is driving the future of cancer diagnostics.
Proscia CEO to be featured panelist at TEDCO Entrepreneur Expo on what it takes to be venture backable
Pathology will always remain a highly subjective medical specialty, but the more subjectivity we remove from the equation, the more we will achieve greater concordance on the correct diagnosis and, ultimately, better patient outcomes
Artificial intelligence is reshaping the capabilities and practices of modern pathology laboratories
New release of its award-winning digital pathology software delivers applications for clinical use-cases and sets the stage for AI-based computational pathology
Several artificial intelligence systems are appearing within the laboratory marketplace aimed at aiding the pathologist in making faster and more accurate decisions in relation to disease diagnosis.
Proscia CEO to present AI and image analysis capabilities at 2017 MedCity CONVERGE Conference. Proscia to be featured as “Startup Showcase” company.
The role of the pathologist in the diagnosis of cancer is undergoing a digital transformation, with developments in artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning set to change the way pathology labs work. Technology Networks spoke to David West Jr., CEO of Proscia, to learn more about the role that digital pathology software can play in the lab, the benefits it can bring, and what the future may hold for pathology.
Proscia VP of Operations Nathan Buchbinder describes a major limitation in digital pathology today – limited interoperability – and explores potential causes and impacts.
Dr. Kaplan continues to explore the evolving role of AI and pathologists, referencing a guest post to Tissuepathology.com from Proscia CEO David West.
Proscia announces the introduction of its new concept: Software as a Lab. Proscia’s President and CEO David West outlined how the pathology lab of the future will operate in a session at the 2017 Digital Pathology Congress: USA on July 10-11 in Chicago.
Digital pathology is the future of storing and sharing images of tissue – and combining it with deep learning could further transform the field.
In addition to its cloud-based products for digital pathology, Proscia has released nine image analysis modules targeting prostate, breast, and skin cancer for research use only.
The May 2017 issue of Clinical Lab Products, a print and online publication that acts as the product-related interface for clinical lab professionals, features Proscia in its Product Spotlight section (page 30).
Proscia CEO, David West Jr. discusses how digital pathology is changing cancer diagnostics and research in video interview with The Doctor’s Channel.
Proscia and Huron Digital Pathology partner to provide seamlessly integrated digital pathology scanner-software solution
Proscia Inc., a data solutions provider for digital pathology, and Huron Digital Pathology, a provider of whole slide imaging solutions, today announced the two companies now provide seamless integration between Huron scanners and the Proscia digital pathology platform. Through this integration, pathologists will be able to quickly and easily scan slides and have them automatically uploaded to the Proscia cloud-based platform for storage, collaboration and image analysis.
If you were looking for some major milestone events indicating the level of interest in digital pathology, you could focus on last week when Philips acquired tumor analysis business PathXL, based in Belfast, Northern Ireland. A couple of years ago, AstraZeneca’s global biologics research and development arm, MedImmune, acquired tissue phenomics company Definiens in a $150 million deal...
At 22, David West Jr. is already a successful entrepreneur. Inspired by his mother’s battle with breast cancer and a longstanding passion for computers, he became interested in how technology could be used to help improve diagnosis and treatment for cancer. That interest turned from an undergraduate project at Johns Hopkins University into a fast-growing digital pathology company, Proscia. Here, West discusses how Proscia got its start, and what he hopes it can do for the future of medicine...
Two-year-old health IT startup Proscia closed a $1 million seed round, CEO David West, Jr. said Monday. The round was led by New York-based Emerald Development Managers. Also participating was TCP Venture Capital through its Propel Baltimore fund, A-Level Capital and Robin Hood Ventures. The oversubscribed round was initially targeted at $500,000, West said. The company is looking to bring digital tools to the task of diagnosing cancer.
UPMC is continuing its bid for revenue diversity, taking three companies under its commercialization wing for further development. After hearing a variety of pitches from different companies Sept. 24, health system affiliate UPMC Enterprises chose Proscia Inc., Forest Devices Inc. and Podimetrics Inc. to help develop their products. The judging coincided with the annual Thrival Innovation...
Thanks to a variety of factors, including lower startup costs and technological advances, many of the world’s most taxing problems are being tackled by some of the youngest entrepreneurs. To put this in perspective, we turned to the Kairos Society, an international organization that supports the development of entrepreneurs worldwide. Each year, the San Francisco-based company develops a list of the top global entrepreneurs under age 25.
For 150 years, the way cancer specialists looked at biopsies didn’t change much. Specialists would gather around a microscope, and analyze slides of showing tissue specimens. “That’s ridiculous,” says Johns Hopkins University biomedical engineering student David West. “There’s no way it should be done that way in 2015.” There are a couple of reasons West thinks that way...
Founded in 2014 by technologists from Johns Hopkins, the Moffitt Cancer Center, The Ohio State University College of Medicine, and the University of Pittsburgh, Proscia is a digital healthcare company with a mission to bring image analysis and big data capabilities to pathology. Proscia’s main focus area is fighting cancer. The company’s vision is to bring computer intelligence to pathology—to organize the world’s pathology information and put it to use fighting cancer...
Have I got cancer? 'Maybe,' says my oncologist, 'so I’m going to take a biopsy and we’ll have a look.' A small piece of my body, tissue from the potentially cancerous organ, is obtained through an incision, and sent to a pathology lab. A thin, thin slice is cut off, stained with revealing chemicals, and then checked by a pathologist. This scenario is repeated tens of million times a year around the globe, and digital health company.
Proscia, a Baltimore-based startup, is looking to use machine learning and cloud-based technology to combat cancer, launching a new software platform aimed at pathologists that provides storage for multi-gigabyte digital biopsies, while simultaneously harnessing what it calls 'second-opinion collaboration technology'. The cloud-based program, according to Proscia, offers large-scale management, analytics, access and collaboration for whole slide images in digital pathology, all with secure access...
