Signs of Postpartum Depression and Anxiety — Lorilee Keller Counselling
There is something wrong with me. I can't handle this and everyone else can.
I'm angry and frustrated all the time.
There are just some of the distressing thoughts that run through the minds of women who are struggling with postpartum depression and/or anxiety. It is estimated that 1 out of 6 women experience a perinatal mood disorder or strong feelings of depression and/or anxiety within a year of the birth of their child. Some of the common symptoms of postpartum depression and/or anxiety include:
Excessive worry and fear (often related to the baby's health)
Extreme sleep deprivation and difficulty sleeping (beyond normal disruption of being a new mom)
Some women experience these symptoms during pregnancy, others experience them immediately following the birth, and for others they may not show up for many months. Struggling with postpartum depression and/or anxiety can be incredibly distressing for the new mom and can have a significant impact on her mental health and well being and relationships with her family. Although awareness around perinatal mood disorders is spreading, there is still a lot of shame and stigma tied to mental health. In our culture, we internalize a lot of messages about what it means to "be a good mother". We often learn that it's not okay to show vulnerability or to reach out for help. We should be able to handle all of it on our own: be a good mother, never feel frustrated with your a children, have a good marriage, be in shape, be attractive, have a clean house and love yourself every step of the way. We are continually bombarded with photos on social media of other women who seem to be just doing that (at least that's what we see in their photos). These high expectations combined with the overwhelming transition of settling into a new role and identity as a mother while lacking quality sleep can have a significant impact on women's mental health and well being. To top it off, new moms are often isolated and lack the supportive network of other women that was once the norm in decades past. In our modern culture, we often have children at different times than our friends and we may be living far away from family. Many women do not have a network of people to help care for them and their little one. Reaching out for help is difficult in our culture but we were never meant to do this all on our own. After all raising a family takes a village and there is no shame in looking outside of our immediate network for additional support. If you are experiencing any of the symptoms of postpartum depression or anxiety, I urge you to reach out for counselling or to check out some other resources:
Pacific Postpartum Support Society offers telephone support and groups for women and their partners:
Pacific Postpartum Support Society has also put out a self help book and other publications on postpartum depression and anxiety:
Survey: We're Not Ready for Meaningful Use - AAPC Blog
Home » Knowledge Center » Compliance » Survey: We're Not Ready for Meaningful Use
Toggle navigation Revenue Management Quality-based Payment Telehealth Compliance Health Information Management Career Growth Survey: We're Not Ready for Meaningful Use
In Compliance March 1, 2010 No Comments A recent survey of top-level executives for 168 provider organizations, mostly hospitals, shows only one-third of respondents expect to meet the first deadline for receiving Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments for meaningful use of electronic health records (EHRs), Health Data Management.com reports.
Nearly half of the respondents told Aloft Group, which conducted the survey for Beacon Partners, they expect the deadlines to be extended. Sixty-eight percent say the most common hurdle to adoption is a lack of internal resources while 45 percent don't have the resources or are not sure if they have them. Two-thirds of the respondents expect to hire or outsource staff to compensate for the resource shortage.
Twenty percent of the executives say their EHR isn't Certification Commission for Health Information Technology (CCHIT) compliant and will need upgrading. A larger percentage of respondents said they didn't know if their EHRs are CCHIT compliant.
To read the study, go to the Beacon Partner's survey.
About Latest Posts admin aapc Latest posts by admin aapc (see all)	Why AAPC is Passionate About Their Codebooks - September 2, 2016	AAPC Launches Healthicity - October 6, 2015	OCT – Message from the AAPCCA Chair - September 30, 2015	Survey: We're Not Ready for Meaningful Use was last modified: July 5th, 2011 by admin aapc
Hacks Breach Hospital Chain's PHI Data Medicare Part D Prescription Abuses Draw Scrutiny Burwell Confirmed as HHS Secretary Health Provider ID Delayed Tagged :CCHITcompliantEHREHR adoptionEMRmeaningful usenoncompliant Tweet
Dental students use iPads to improve patient interactions - Dental news
Placed by : Dental-Group CO.LTD. 31-10-2011
Students are using iPads equipped with a special application that gives them a new way to communicate with patients, discuss oral health topics and dental procedures, and educate patients about the health of their mouths.
Since spring quarter 2011, class of 2013 dental students have been working with various forms of digital technology to practice patient communication skills. In a preclinical setting this spring, students conducted practice interactions with patients while being filmed with Flip video cameras, and faculty provided feedback and communication coaching.
Now that the class of 2013 has transitioned into the clinic, students are utilizing the communication skills they previously learned to conduct more effective and positive interactions with patients, with the help of an iPad.
In the clinic, the students use iPads equipped with the DDS General Practitioner application. The app allows students to easily show photos, diagrams, and animated images of common oral conditions and dental" target="_blank">href="http://www.d-group-cn.com/en/products.asp?big_id=9&pageid=57">dental implant procedures. It also allows students to present clinical findings, prevention recommendations, and hypothetical treatment plan options.
"This project has enhanced the student's ability to impart prevention and treatment plan options, and has fostered better patient communication," stated Chris Miller, director of community programs, co-director of the Pacific Center for Special Care, and one of the pilot project's faculty leaders, in a news release. "Already students using the iPads have been witness to the impact a strong visual aid can have on their patients."
The innovative pilot project was spearheaded by Miller along with Maria Murtagh, director of the Student Store, and Raybel Ramos, director of the information technology department.
Funds used to purchase the iPads came from a generous donation from a school supporter, Louisa Galdieri. Pending a successful pilot year, the program will be looking for other sources of funding to continue and expand the use of iPads in the clinic.
"One of the Dugoni School of Dentistry's goals is to harness technology to maximize learning," Miller said. "Bringing iPads into our clinic is doing just that."
AB Sciex (d/b/a Sciex). (1/12/16). "Press Release: Sciex Announces Exclusive Co-marketing Agreement with Pressure BioSciences, Inc. to Improve Protein Quantitation in Complex Samples". Framingham, MA. - [MSC] Mass-Spec-Capital.com - The Mass Spectrometry Web Portal
AB Sciex (d/b/a Sciex). (1/12/16). "Press Release: Sciex Announces Exclusive Co-marketing Agreement with Pressure BioSciences, Inc. to Improve Protein Quantitation in Complex Samples". Framingham, MA.
Product PCT-HD system (pressure cycling technology high definition system)
Person 2 Schumacher, Richard T. (Pressure BioSciences Inc 200703 CEO + founder)
SCIEX and Pressure BioSciences to Offer Complete Solution for Next-Generation Proteomics, to Increase the Reproducibility and Depth of Proteomic Analysis
SCIEX, a global leader in life science analytical technologies, today announced an exclusive co-marketing agreement with Pressure BioSciences, Inc. (PBI) (OTCQB: PBIO), a worldwide leader in the development and sale of high pressure-based sample preparation systems to the life sciences research market. This relationship will uniquely position SCIEX to address a major challenge in complex sample preparation by marketing a complete solution to increase the depth, breadth, and reproducibility of protein extraction, digestion and quantitation in all tissue types, including challenging samples like tumors. Under this Agreement, PBI and SCIEX will promote pressure cycling technology (PCT) sample preparation systems such as PCT-HD (PCT High Definition) with SWATH® Acquisition based next-generation proteomics, TripleTOF® Systems, QTRAP® Systems, and Triple Quad Systems. This focus on improved sample preparation, a crucial step performed in research laboratories worldwide, will enable scientists to extract more proteins reproducibly from complex sample types, potentially yielding superior biological insights and discoveries.
PCT-HD was developed by PBI scientists and engineers in collaboration with Professor Ruedi Aebersold and Dr. Tiannan Guo of the Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich, and the University of Zurich, in Switzerland. Drs. Aebersold and Guo combined PCT-HD sample preparation with SCIEX's SWATH-Mass Spectrometry – naming the resulting method "PCT-SWATH". This unique protocol can yield proteome analysis results within 12 hours from the start of processing tissue, much faster than current methods.
"By addressing the significant challenges inherent in complex sample preparation to reproducibly analyze thousands of proteins in hundreds of samples, PCT-SWATH accelerates proteomics research in biologically and clinically-relevant contexts," states Dr. Aebersold. "This should increase the chance for biomarker discovery, potentially leading to significant improvements in healthcare, including personalized medicine."
"Advancing precision medicine through the ability to reproducibly quantitate thousands of proteins in large clinical sample cohorts is of the utmost importance to both academic and clinical research labs," said Mark Cafazzo, Director of Academic and Clinical Research Business at SCIEX. "The combination of PCT sample preparation with SWATH Acquisition delivers a powerful method to industrialize proteomics research, including the most complex and challenging biospecimens. By partnering with PBI and adding the PCT technology to SCIEX next-generation proteomic solutions, we help scientists address the sample preparation challenges they face every day, especially when working with difficult tissue samples."
Is It Normal To Get Dizzy After Being Constipated - Vertigo
Is It Normal To Get Dizzy After Being Constipated
Vertigo, likewise known as dizziness, is a family member term to the extra familiar vertigo, additionally referred to as nausea or vomiting. A sensation that your whole body is dizzy and moving in an odd means. The dizziness begins suddenly, without warning and also is generally for brief time periods. Vertigo, like wooziness, is really frightening and is the major symptom of various problems that impact the brain, from high blood pressure to fainting. Is It Normal To Get Dizzy After Being Constipated
Benign positional vertigo (BPV) is probably one of the most usual cause of vertigo, the feeling that the inside of your head or that your whole body is turning oddly. Typically this is accompanied by light-headedness, nausea, throwing up, fainting, as well as a sensation of detachment from your environments. BPV generally triggers only quick episodes of dizziness, typically no greater than 10 mins. It is often caused by muscle spasms or by an absence of blood circulation to the nerves in the inner ear. Nevertheless, some people have no signs and symptoms whatsoever. Is It Normal To Get Dizzy After Being Constipated
The majority of situations of dizziness are brought on by several of the conditions that affect the mind and also interfere with its ability to work correctly. If you are experiencing signs that you think are vertigo, your doctor will probably recommend antihistamines or tricyclic antidepressants as therapies for these problems. Antihistamines reduce the task of the chemicals in the body that cause the reaction that causes vertigo. Tricyclic antidepressants are utilized to treat allergies, anxiousness, as well as various other similar conditions. Is It Normal To Get Dizzy After Being Constipated
Particular medicines may likewise create vertigo. For instance, doxycycline can reduce the strength of your muscle mass that support your equilibrium. This lowers the amount of liquid in your brain that causes your dizziness. Other medications that may consist of doxycycline are Prednisone, Acetylcholine, Phenytoin, as well as NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications).
Vertigo that does not boost with non-prescription therapy can be dealt with by your medical professional. These therapies include prescription medicines, surgery, as well as antihistamines. If your dizziness is severe, your physician might suggest you to have a committed echocardiography system or VASER (vesicular stentibular shutoff stimulation) procedure. This procedure utilizes a laser to open the tightened capillary that cause the dizziness. The laser might also reduce the quantity of liquid buildup in your brain that causes dizziness.
Some individuals have issues with lightheadedness without treatment. In these cases, it is very important to identify why you experience the signs. Your medical professional might require to do tests such as an MRI or CT scan to determine the underlying problem. He might also perform some basic lab examinations in order to eliminate or confirm the diagnosis.
A few of the reasons that might cause lightheadedness include a condition called sensorineural hearing loss. This condition happens when there is damage to the internal ear. This can be caused by an ear infection, an injury, or an adverse effects of specific medicines. Other causes can be high fevers, ear infection, meniere's disease, Meniere's disorder, or vestibular neurons.
If you are experiencing lightheadedness, you must make note of where your lightheadedness is influencing your balance. You should likewise understand if the adjustments in equilibrium are occurring for a long period of time or if they are simply happening in a short time period. This will help your physician to identify the root cause of vertigo and additionally the proper treatment. If you think that your lightheadedness results from a lack of balance, you need to consult your doctor. Your health care professional will certainly be able to provide you with beneficial details about vertigo as well as exactly how you can manage the signs and symptoms.
In order to determine the precise root cause of vertigo, your health care professional will certainly most likely have you go through an extensive evaluation to rule out any type of underlying physical causes. One of the most usual reasons for dizziness is reduced blood pressure or hypertension. If you have actually been detected with either of these conditions, you need to follow your physician's orders and also stick to your regular medicine. By reducing your high blood pressure, your lightheadedness could be eliminated. Your condition might call for treatment to lower your blood stress normally.
One more usual reason for vertigo is experiencing hearing loss. As we age, our hearing ends up being much less efficient, which may result to vertigo. If you have been experiencing wooziness without any various other signs, it may be difficult to identify the issue. As soon as you begin experiencing any type of kind of audio or noise in your ear, you need to right away call your medical professional.
Some symptoms that can recommend the visibility of a vestibular migraine headache include: nausea, vomiting, impaired thinking, and also fainting. Due to the fact that these signs and symptoms can be incorporated, your medical professional may do tests to verify the visibility of vertigo. If your signs and symptoms correspond, your medical professional may perform added tests such as catheterizations, magnetic vibration imaging (MRI), as well as computerized tomography (CT) check.
First baby born to woman with uterus transplanted from deceased donor - Worldnews.com
(CNN)For the first time, a baby has been born to a woman who received a uterus transplant from a deceased donor, according to Hospital das Clínicas at the University of São Paulo School of Medicine in Brazil.
The uterus or womb, which is shaped like a topsy-turvy pear and sits within the pelvis, is a female reproductive
"The results provide proof-of-concept for a new treatment option for absolute uterine factor infertility,"
For the very first time, a baby has been born following a uterus transplant from a deceased donor, as reported today in the medical journal The Lancet. With live donors...
Woman With Uterus From Dead Donor Gives Birth to Healthy Baby in World First
A baby has been born to a mother who had a uterus transplant from a deceased woman, in a world first. An unnamed 32-year-old woman, who was born without a uterus, received the womb of a 45-year-old donor in September 2016, during an operation at the University of São Paulo, Brazil. The donor died of a brain hemorrhage caused by a stroke. In life, she had given birth to three...
We have already looked at the health benefits of resveratrol on heart disease and cancer. Today we'll take a look at resveratrol and diabetes. We'll learn how resveratrol impacts probably the most preventable chronic disease we know called type 2 diabetes. Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes are associated with many complications such as nephropathy (kidney disease), neuropathy (nerve disease), and retinopathy (a leading cause of blindness).
Type 2 diabetes occurs gradually (unlike type 1) taking years to fully manifest itself. So there's plenty of time to take corrective action. Type 2 diabetes occurs when the body becomes increasingly resistant to insulin. This leads to elevated blood sugars which create havoc on our health. Type 2 diabetes typically occurs in overweight individuals. Unfortunately, more and more of us are becoming overweight and the incidence of type 2 diabetes continues to rise.
High blood sugar causes inflammation and generates an enormous amount of oxidative stress. Both of these lead to tissue damage and increase the odds of developing other chronic conditions like heart disease and cancer. Blood vessels injured by elevated blood sugar become stiff losing their ability to regulate blood flow contributing to heart disease and stroke.
Resveratrol and Diabetes: the Link Between Them
Most of the health benefits of resveratrol stem from its ability to activate SIRT-1 genes. Activation of SIRT-1 genes improves metabolic pathways that enables cells to use glucose and insulin more efficiently. This allows the body to function more effectively with less insulin and less sugar.
Activation of SIRT-1 genes also blocks cellular oxidative stress and inflammation. This helps minimize the many complications related to type 2 diabetes. In laboratory animals resveratrol has been shown to improve blood vessel function.
So far studies show resveratrol to slow the progression of kidney disease in diabetics. It's also been show to improve blood vessel disease in animals lessening the risk of retinopathy.
Obviously, studies in humans need to be done. But, there's a least enough evidence to suggest that we all should be sure to get more resveratrol through the foods we eat and drink: red wine, dark chocolate, berries, peanuts/pistachios, and red/purple grapes.
The best way to head off the complications of type 2 diabetes is not to get the disease. Eat low glycemic foods, get plenty of regular exercise, and achieve a healthy body composition. Consider resveratrol if you have diabetes.
See the following articles related to resveratrol.
"Resveratrol Anti Aging"
Top Anti Aging Vitamins Anti Aging Supplements Anti Aging Products: Nutraceuticals in the News Today's Top Anti Aging Drugs
Children with autism, developmental delays nearly 50% more likely to be overweight – TheEdWire
A new study by researchers at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), the University of Pennsylvania and six other centres reveals that children with developmental delays, including autism spectrum disorder (ASD), are up to 50 percent more likely to be overweight or obese compared with the general population.
The research was conducted as part of the Study to Explore Early Development (SEED). The multisite study analysed 668 children with ASD, 914 children with developmental delays or disorders and 884 children from the general population who served as controls. Children's heights and weights were measured during clinical visits, and ASD severity was measured using the Ohio State University Global Severity Scale for Autism.
Levy et al, "Relationship of Weight Outcomes, Co-Occurring Conditions, and Severity of Autism Spectrum Disorder in the Study to Explore Early Development," J Pediatrics, online October 9, 2018. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpeds.2018.09.003
This study included co-authors from Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Colorado, Thomas Jefferson University, the Waisman Center, the University of Wisconsin-Madision, and the National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disability of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Research data in different disciplinary fields vary greatly in structure, format, and size. Although metadata standards for research data in major disciplinary fields have been established, it is common that metadata models and knowledge organization structures have to be developed for individual disciplines to meet the special needs and requirements of research data management. Computationally intensive research, for example, relies heavily on writing programming code in the research lifecycle for data collection, processing, analysis, and management. Ecosystem research data encompass a wide variety of formats and types of data that often mixed with unstructured notes and/or annotations. Humanities research data are often in text format and unstructured. Proper organization and management of research data is necessary not only for their ongoing management and use but also for long-term preservation and access.
The increasing demand for both metadata and knowledge representation in the research data domain presents a unique niche area for research and application. This half-day workshop will feature research on applying KOS in enhancing research data discovery and use, metadata modeling for big science data management, linked data competency training, and more. The speakers bring with them the ongoing projects and practices and allow the audience to have an opportunity to ask questions, learn new developments, and interact with speakers and other workshop participants. Unlike previous NKOS workshops, this first ever NKOS workshop has broadened the scope to combine metadata with KOS and focus on applications of KOS and metadata.
Librarians, information professionals, and graduate students who are interested in learning about metadata modeling and knowledge representation for research data will learn about the important concepts, methods, practices, and current developments through the overview and panel presentations. Researchers and practitioner will be able to share and exchange information and discuss issues in metadata modeling and knowledge representation through questions and answers between presenters and participants. This will also be a great opportunity for educators who teach courses in information organization and other related areas to stay in touch with new developments.
Below is the schedule for the workshop (Detailed presentation information will be updated from time to time):
This presentation reports part of an ongoing data curation project for curating quantitative social science research data for data reuse data. The focus of this project is on curating research datasets derived from survey questionnaires in the social sciences. These datasets often contain socio-demographic information of questionnaire respondents. We are interested in using the knowledge representation techniques of metadata schema and ontologies to describe and represent research data for data curation and reuse. An ontology can be used to represent the syntax and structure of datasets, and assign semantics (i.e. meaning) to socio-demographic variables and their values in the datasets needed for data interpretation and reuse. Socio-demographic variables and their different value types (i.e. typical combinations of value choices of variables) are collected from two social sciences data repositories: the U.K. Data Archive and the Interuniversity Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) and modelled using a two-level representation: the data table variable description and the physical table description. The detail of data table variable and physical table description will be presented and the implications on curating quantitative social science data will be discussed.
Given the growth of using open source software and open access data in research projects, it is important to investigate and understand how and why the data and software are used or reused. Previous research on this often uses only simple citation counts as an indicator for reuse. In this presentation, we will discuss our efforts in searching for methods to create a taxonomy for data and software reuse. We aim to create automatic or semi-automatic procedures to identify types of reuse from the documents that mentioned about the reuse. Open-source software, LAMMPS, which is popular in materials science research, was chosen as a sample. There are 6142 articles citing this software on Google Scholar. We identified the top 400 citing documents, and found and collected all the full text articles as the source for content analysis to look for different types of reuse. For each article, the sentences that cite the software were extracted and analyzed. Terms in the sentences were collected for content analysis. As a result, eight categories of reuse were identified, including, for each category, a list of associative terms that can be used as indicators for the category. We then run two types of tests on these categories. One is to apply Machine Learning algorithms to see how we can use these categories and associative terms to predict the type of reuse in new documents that cite the software. The other is to ask a domain expert to assess these categories of reuse and evaluate how well these categories were correctly identified. The results, which are both interesting and surprising, will be discussed during the presentation.
In the creation and application of LOD datasets, data linking and mashing-up based on LOD-enabled KOS vocabularies have direct impacts on entity-level quality of data. The term "entity" refers to identifiable things, which are often seen as named entities such as people, organizations, places, events, and concepts represented in metadata statements while the values are controlled by KOS vocabularies. In RDF triples (subject-predicate-object) or metadata statements, entities occupy the positions of "subject" and "object". Data converting into, and linking through, RDF triples do not warrant the datasets' maturity, trustiness, robustness, scalability, and sustainability. This presentation will present the types of quality issues found in current practices and aim at increasing the awareness of these issues and finding enhancement methods.
The complexity of computationally-intensive scientific research poses great challenges for both research data management and research reproducibility. What metadata and vocabulary needs to be captured for tracking, reproducing, and reuse computational results is the starting point in developing metadata models to fulfill these functions of data management. This presentation reports the findings from a study designed to gather user requirements to develop a metadata model with an ontological approach. This case shows that metadata specific to GW data, workflows, and outputs tend to differ from those currently available in metadata standards and the process of developing the metadata model should captures both structural and semantic vocabularies.
Abstract: This presentation discusses development of Global Agricultural Concept Scheme (GACS) in which key concepts from three thesauri about agriculture and nutrition—AGROVOC, CAB Thesaurus, and NAL Thesaurus—have been merged. The respective partner organizations—Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO), CAB International (CABI), and the USDA National Agricultural Library (NAL)—undertook this initiative in 2013 with the goal of facilitating search across databases, improving the semantic reach of their databases by supporting queries that freely draw on terms from any mapped thesaurus, and achieving economies of scale from joint maintenance. The GACS beta release of May 2016 has 15,000 concepts and over 350,000 terms in 28 languages.
NKOS (Networked Knowledge Organization Systems) is an ad hoc work group of more than 300 international experts and implementers of knowledge organization systems. NKOS is devoted to enabling knowledge organization systems/services (KOS), such as classification systems, thesauri, gazetteers, and ontologies, as networked, interactive information services to support the description and retrieval of diverse information resources through the Internet.
The SEC has issued proposed rules and amendments, "Covered Investment Fund Research Reports," that would "promote research on mutual funds, exchange‑traded funds, registered closed-end funds, business development companies, and similar covered investment funds."
The proposal "would reduce obstacles to providing research on investment funds by harmonizing the treatment of such research with research on other public entities."
Comments on the proposal are due 30 days after the date of its publication in the Federal Register. For more information, see the press release and proposed rule on the SEC's Web site.
The report highlights the standard-setting activities of the FASB and GASB in 2017 and how the boards "ensure standards work for all stakeholders." In addition to summarizing those organizations' accomplishments over the past year, the annual report contains a section on management's discussion and analysis and audited financial statements.
Pensions and postemployment benefits other than pensions.
The statistical section.
Regulatory process related to applying GASB Statement No. 62, Codification of Accounting and Financial Reporting Guidance Contained in Pre-November 30, 1989 FASB and AICPA Pronouncements.
In addition, the implementation guide amends certain Q&As from previously issued implementation guides.
CAQ releases highlights of March 2018 meeting with SEC staff
The Center for Audit Quality (CAQ) has released the highlights of the March 13, 2018, joint meeting with the SEC staff.
Financial reporting implications of tax reform legislation.
Waivers of financial statements required by Regulation S-X, Rule 3-09, "Separate Financial Statements of Subsidiaries Not Consolidated and 50 Percent or Less Owned Persons."
Use of most recent year-end financial statements in the assessment of significance in an IPO under Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w), "Significant Subsidiary."
Audit requirements for pretransaction periods after a reverse merger involving two operating companies.
The next SBAC meeting is scheduled for November 1, 2018. For more information, see the meeting recap on the FASB's Web site.
FASB member to step down
FASB member Harold Monk has announced that he will resign from the Board on May 31, 2018.
Mr. Monk joined the FASB on January 1, 2017. The FAF trustees will soon begin their search for a successor; in the meantime, the Board will operate with six members.
SEC staff publishes C&DIs on proxy rules and Schedules 14A/14C
The staff in the SEC's Division of Corporation Finance has issued 45 new compliance and disclosure interpretations (C&DIs) related to proxy rules and Schedules 14A/14C.
On its Web site, the SEC describes the C&DIs as follows:
[The C&DIs] replace the interpretations published in the Proxy Rules and Schedule 14A Manual of Publicly Available Telephone Interpretations and the March 1999 Supplement to the Manual of Publicly Available Telephone Interpretations ("Telephone Interpretations"). In particular, C&DIs 124.01, 124.07, 126.02, 151.01, 161.03, and 163.01 reflect substantive changes to the Telephone Interpretations. C&DIs 126.04, 126.05, 158.01, and 158.03 reflect technical revisions to the Telephone Interpretations. The remaining C&DIs reflect only non-substantive changes to the Telephone Interpretations.
For more information, see the C&DIs on the SEC's Web site.
FASB discusses improvements to the accounting for asset acquisitions and business combinations
At its May 9, 2018, meeting, the FASB discussed alternatives for improving the accounting for asset acquisitions and business combinations.
The Board discussed how the following areas could be aligned: (1) contingent consideration, (2) in-process research and development, and (3) acquisition-related costs. No decisions were made.
