5 flu season guidelines
Health & Wellness Library 5 flu season guidelines: When to bring your child to the ER Children's Health Feb 2, 2017, 12:00:00 AM CST Jul 30, 2018, 10:52:33 AM CDT
5 flu season guidelines: When to bring your child to the ER
This is the time of year in North Texas when flu season infects adults and children. Oftentimes parents are unsure if they should take children to the emergency room (ER) or their pediatrician.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), if your child has the flu, they are contagious as early as one day before symptoms develop – and up to five to seven days after.
Keep these tips in mind when your child is sick or you're considering a visit to the ER:
If your infant has symptoms such as constipation, rash or is spitting up, it's best to see your pediatrician. If an infant is not eating, is listless, has fever or difficulty breathing, or has a color change – go to the ER immediately.
When should I take my older infant or child to the ER?
Fever in older children is not an emergency. For children two-months-old or older, a fever by itself is not an indication to take a child to the ER. Fever is a common symptom during the winter season and usually associated the flu. If your child has a fever and responds to acetaminophen or ibuprofen, that's an indication the child doesn't need to go to the ER.
Children of all ages should immediately go to the ER if they have: difficulty breathing, become unresponsive, suffer from excessive vomiting or appear dehydrated with decreased urination, or have dry lips or sunken eyes. Any one of these symptoms warrants a visit to the ER.
Parents can help avoid a trip to the ER by ensuring everyone in their family six-months-old or older receives a flu shot.
Keep healthy family members away from the ER
See a list of flu symptoms with a quick reference guide of where to seek treatment. View our fight the flu infographic here.
communicable disease, epidemiology, fever, flu, flu season, infection, infectious diseases, influenza, microbiology, vaccine, virus
EU/US/Canada pool resources to study genetic mutations: :: Medtech Insight
EU/US/Canada pool resources to study genetic mutations:
The European Commission, the US National Institutes of Health and Genome Canada are taking part in a Euro56.5m ($72m) global collaborative research programme designed to lead to better understanding of the genetic make-up of human diseases. Of this amount, Euro13m will be contributed from the EU's Research Framework Programme. The programme will study the activity of genes in mice (mice and humans share 99% of their genetic make-up), using a process that "knocks out" specific genes. The information on mutations in the mouse genome generated by the programme will be freely accessible to the scientific community, constituting a significant resource to help translate basic research in to improvements in human health.
Curcum-Evail is a formulation that has higher bioavailable curcumin and curcumin oil. The health benefits of curcumin are many and it has gained a lot of appreciation in many fields of treatment. Simply taking curcumin every day can improve the health, can also cure many diseases, and also prevent certain malicious diseases as well.
Curcum-Evail, made by the Designs for Health Evail, contains the curcuminoids forms that are strongest, protective and widely accepted and researched form from the turmeric plant. Curcumin is beneficial when taken in higher quantity and these Curcum-Evail capsules allow this higher dose every day to have improved benefits at a faster rate.
Curcumin is one compound that is beneficial for almost all the organs and parts of the body. It has got antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant properties that cover every kind of protection for the body.
Anti-inflammatory: Inflammation leads to several diseases including cancer, heart disease, degenerative diseases, and even diabetes. Having Curcum-Evail provides the anti-inflammatory protection to every cell of the body. Curcumin can reduce any type of inflammation without any inhibitory action inside the body. It suppresses the inflammatory marker and reduces the inflammation compounds.
Cardiovascular health: Curcumin can regulate the cholesterol level and prevent the cell destruction that benefits the heart health. It can control the platelet aggression and promote the good cholesterol formation and reduce the lipid peroxidation.
Digestive health: The anti-inflammatory and antibacterial effects of curcumin are useful for improving the digestive health. It can be curative for the inflammatory diseases and for leaky gut. It can promote the growth of beneficial bacteria.
Brain health: The antioxidant property of the curcumin can protect the brain cells and nerve cells from destruction. It helps in the maintenance of cognitive health and prevents the chances of Alzheimer’s or other degenerative diseases.
Liver: Curcumin can protect the liver from damage because of alcohol and certain fungal toxins. It helps in the detoxification process.
Autoimmune diseases: Curcum-Evail can reduce the auto-immune conditions in the body by regulating the mediators.
Anti-allergic: The antiallergic property reduces the allergic reactions by inhibiting cytokines production and also reduces the release of histamine.
Curcumin, Demethoxycurcumin and Bisdemethoxycurcumin are all derivatives of curcuminoids. They all have antioxidant properties but at varying degrees. The degree of the antioxidant property is highest in curcumin and lowest in bisdemethoxycurcumin.
Turmeric oil can help fight cancer, neurological diseases, reduce common problems such as arthritis, joint issues, and liver health improvement, relieve depression, and can help fight the common cold and flu.
Sunflower lecithin is beneficial for brain and nerve functions. It is good for heart, liver, maintaining blood pressure levels, and relieves arthritis pain.
The Curcum-Evail is available as soft gels. The dosage is one soft gel per day with any of the meal. Though higher dose of curcumin has more effect, the dosage should not be increased without the doctor’s advice.
People using blood thinners, medications for gallstones, have ulcers should take it with care. It can inhibit certain enzyme production and reduce the growth of lactobacillus.
Curcum-Evail provides 380 mg of curcuminoids per day. The higher requirement could go up to 1200mg per day. But as said earlier, talk to your doctor. Even if you don’t have any health issues, use the low dose of Curcum-Evail can maintain the health. It is available in many online stores.
Curcum-Evail is a formulation that has higher bioavailable curcumin and curcumin oil. Simply taking curcumin every day can improve the health, can also cure many diseases, and also prevent certain malicious diseases as well.
2021 Geriatric Healthcare Summit - with Teepa Snow!
October 26th — 28th, 2021
The premier geriatric virtual event... bringing today's cutting-edge interventions to you!
We have gathered the leading voices in the field to breakdown what's changing, what's working, and what's just around the corner in geriatric care.
World renowned dementia expert, Teepa Snow MS, OTR/L, FAOTA, along with 15 multidisciplinary experts, will take your practice to clinical excellence! And earn up to 31.75 CE Hours, including 7 Pharmacology CE hours!
You have always prided and challenged yourself to be the best clinician possible. However, the pace of change is so rapid.
Keeping up with new evidence, legal risks, technology, guidelines and best practices can be time consuming and overwhelming. Maintaining your up-to-date knowledge and skills has felt seemingly impossible.......UNTIL NOW!
You'll learn from our multidisciplinary team of experts during this powerful event.
20 sessions on essential topics: >>View the Full Summit Agenda
COVID-19/influenza updates
Wound care challenges
Documentation hazards...and more!
Fall preventions
Drug deprescribing
The dementia epidemic
➤ 16 clinical leaders – from MDs, NPs, OT, SLP, PharmD, PA, PhD
➤ Up to 31.75 CE hours, including up to 7 pharmacology hours – no additional charge
➤ 5 FREE bonus sessions
➤ Live chat and Q&A to connect with the presenters
PLUS, this event meets the educational requirements to become a Certified Geriatric Care Professional (CGCP) – at no additional cost to you! A $249.99 value!
2021 Geriatric Healthcare Summit
$2,219.80 Value
Just $399.99 Today — Save $1,819.81!!
EARN UP TO 31.75 CE HOURS!
Earn up to 31.75 CE Hours (incl. up to 7 pharma CE hours) — up to 23.25 Live CE Hours & 8.5 Self-Study CE Hours.
Click here for CE Credit breakdown | Click here for SLP (ASHA) live CE credit details
BONUS! Get your Certified Geriatric Care Professional (CGCP) certification (a $249.99 value) FREE – with today's registration!
Can't attend live? No problem! Click here to pre-order the complete self-study recording package - including CGCP certification!
You'll get the TOP TEN TRENDING TOPICS in geriatric assessment, intervention and treatment. You can expect to:
Better predict and prevent falls - with effective fall prevention tools and out-of-the-box strategies.
Determine the efficacy of currently available COVID-19 vaccines for evolving variants.
Implement emerging wound care treatments to facilitate optimal healing.
Learn new techniques to honor patients' wishes during serious illness and end of life.
Differentiate between state staffing and federal staffing requirements.
Avoid the latest legal risks as they relate to minimal care expectations and regulatory standards.
Choose the influenza vaccine most effective for a geriatric patient.
Select the very best medication (or combination) for mental health issues.
Acquire new clinical tools and insights to address unique GI challenges your geriatric patients experience.
Discern when Beers Criteria clarifies medication risks, a real time risk versus benefit approach.
Click here for course objectives and outline.
• View the Full Summit Agenda •
REGISTER TODAY FOR $399.99!
Geriatric Healthcare Summit Schedule
If you're ready to learn from our leading multidisciplinary team of clinicians...
…covering the hottest and most pressing issues you face every single day...
…then this three-day, exclusive event is for you!
Day 1 | Tuesday, October 26, 2021
9:00am — 6:00pm (Central)
Challenging Geriatric Behaviors: Root Causes and Practical Non-Medication Solutions
Edward G. Shaw, MD, MA, is dually trained as a physician and mental health counselor. Ed was the primary care partner for his late wife, Rebecca, who was diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease in 2008 at age 53 and died in 2016 after a 9-year journey.  Join Ed as he walks along your side as the host for the 3-day Geriatric Summit, providing a unique perspective and keen insights in to your everyday challenges.
Ed will kick off the Summit's first session, delving into the challenges that families and caregivers experience related to aging and dementia behaviors. Ed will deliver the best tested and supported strategies for agitation, aggression, wandering, sexual behaviors, sundowning, refusals to eat and insomnia.
Click here for information about Edward G. Shaw
Medical-Legal Concerns Specific to the Care of Older Patients
Rachel Cartwright-Vanzant, PhD, MS, LHRM, CCRN-K, will deliver key updates to reduce your liability exposure. She will share from her experiences testifying, including the high-risk areas of advance care planning, advance directives, DNR orders, and elder abuse/neglect. You will gain authoritative updates to guide your own practice decisions.
Click here for information about Rachel Cartwright-Vanzant
Brain Changes: Distinguishing Between Aging, Dementia and Depression
Teepa Snow, MS, OTR/L, FAOTA, a world-renowned dementia expert, will deliver her exceptional perspective on dementia and other forms of brain change. Teepa presents with extraordinary expertise and humor to audiences large and small throughout the world. Join in her mission to improve the culture of dementia care, one mind at a time.
Click here for information about Teepa L. Snow
COVID-19 and Influenza Vaccine Updates for the Geriatric Patient: Clinical Considerations to Optimize Protection
Eric Wombwell, PharmD, BCIDP, knows very well that it is challenging to stay current on the evolving status of COVID-19 and influenza, with mutations in both viruses impacting efficacy of vaccinations. As a board-certified infectious diseases pharmacist, he will provide the very latest updates, trends and scheduling to guide optimal administration of vaccines for COVID-19 and influenza.
Click here for information about Eric Wombwell
Brain Lesions, Cognitive Changes & Behavioral Control
Jerome Quellier, MS, CCC-SLP, will dive into site specific brain lesions that affect behavior and thinking skills. With a deeper understanding, you can begin to anticipate patient barriers to emotions, sensory awareness, engagement and compliance. Jerome has focused his career on neuro-based diagnostics and interventions for cognitive-linguistic deficits, dysphagia and brain injuries at a 500+ bed Level 1 Trauma hospital.
Click here for information about Jerome Quellier
Day 2 | Wednesday, October 27, 2021
Drug Prescribing and Deprescribing in Older Adults
**2 pharmacology CE hours**
Steven Atkinson, PA-C, MS, will synthesize everything you need to know to prescribe, deprescribe, prevent drug-drug interactions and minimize adverse drug events for your geriatric patients. He has specialized in Geriatric Internal Medicine and is involved in pharmacological challenges for this age group on a daily basis.
Click here for information about Steven Atkinson
Documentation Hazards for Geriatric Patient Care: Minimal Care Expectations & Regulatory Standards
Rachel Cartwright-Vanzant, PhD, MS, LHRM, CCRN-K, will delve into the very latest documentation pitfalls that lend themselves to litigation risks, including attention to minimal care expectations, staffing standards, informed consent, polypharmacy, screening results and regulatory standards. Rachel has extensive experience testifying and through her work as a risk manager.
Empowering Geriatric Patients: Safety, Skills & Transition Decisions
Jamie Miner, PT, DPT, GCS, will solve safety concerns associated with the most appropriate level of care, smooth out the transition process and empower patients to engage fully in the rehabilitation process, at all levels. She currently provides specialized services to many skilled nursing facilities and earned geriatric clinical specialist designation through the American Physical Therapy Association.
Click here for information about Jamie Miner
Geriatric Assessment Strategies: Atypical Symptoms & Complex Diagnoses
Susann Varano, MD, knows well that atypical symptoms add a layer of complexity to accurate diagnosis and treatment. Susann, a Yale University trained physician who is double board certified in internal medicine and geriatric medicine, will share her best practice tips to assess for falls, elder mistreatment, cognitive function, depression and general physical examination.
Click here for information about Susann Varano
Older Adults with Pain: Most Effective Pharmacologic and Non-Pharmacologic Therapies
**1 pharmacology CE hour**
Steven Atkinson, PA-C, MS, will help you to decide the most effective screening tools to use and the best pharmacologic therapies for older adults with pain, from adjuvant therapies, opioids, and cannabinoids. Steven has specialized in Geriatric Internal Medicine and is the co-founder of Twin Cities Physicians, which serves older adults in nearly all levels of their care.
Day 3 | Thursday, October 28, 2021
The Looming Dementia Epidemic: Early-Stage Interventions for Cognitive Reserve and Functional Skills
Sherrie All, PhD, will share her toolbox for early-stage interventions designed to help people build and maintain cognitive reserve and functional skills to maintain healthy independence. The looming dementia epidemic indicates prevention and early detection, diagnosis and intervention are a medical necessity. Sherrie is a licensed clinical neuropsychologist who specializes in treating people with dementia, Parkinson's disease, TBI, MS, and other neurological disorders.
Click here for information about Sherrie All
End of Life Care – Strategies for Comfort, Communication, Choices & Control
Nancy Joyner, MS, CNS-BC, APRN, ACHPN®, will provide her expert thoughts on pain management, crucial conversations, bereavement, code status, artificial nutrition, dialysis and advance directives. She is a Palliative Care Clinical Nurse Specialist, holds certification as an Advanced Practice Hospice and Palliative Care Nurse, is an End-of-Life Nursing Education Consortium trained presenter and has extensive experiences caring for end-of-life patients and their families.
Click here for information about Nancy Joyner
Fall Prevention Solutions: Today's Best Practices, Guidelines and Standards for Individualized Care
Shelly Denes, PT, CFPS, C/NDT, CGCP, has packed this session with practical solutions for your most challenging fall risk patients. Shelly has built the presentation based upon today's best practices, guidelines and standards for individualized fall prevention goals. She is an expert in fall prevention and neuro-rehab with more than 25 years of experience treating patients with hemiplegia, neuromuscular disorders, TBI, and SCI.
Click here for information about Michel (Shelly) Denes
Ethnogeriatrics: Cultural Competence for Health Care Professionals
Tamatha Arms, PhD, DNP, PMHNP-BC, NP-C, completed a postdoctoral fellowship in ethnogeriatrics from Stanford University. Tamatha will highlight key cultural considerations related to religion, family role responsibilities, respect for authority, traditional foods, healing practices, cultural taboos and end of life decisions. She is an adult nurse practitioner with vast experiences, currently providing geriatric and psychiatric care in long-term care.
Click here for information about Tamatha E Arms
Challenges to Psychosocial Well-Being with Aging and Dementia: Mental Health, Relationships, and Caregiving
Edward G. Shaw, MD, MA, will share his vast psychosocial insights and updates, on topics to include: depression, anxiety, PTSD, emotional expression changes, relationship and family discord, and the burden on spousal and family caregivers. These burdens are among the most challenging to healthcare providers of seniors.  Ed is dually trained as a physician and mental health counselor, serving individuals, couples, and families affected by Alzheimer's disease or other types of dementia.
EARN UP TO 31.75 CE HOURS - INCLUDING 7 PHARMACOLOGY HOURS!
5 FREE Bonus Sessions
Includes up to 8.5 self-study CE hours (incl. up to 4 pharma CE hours) — when you register today! Click for details.
Geriatric Psychopharmacology Updates & Trends
{7219_Nanette_Lavoie-VaughanWithBio}
Nanette Lavoie-Vaughan, MSN, ANPCP- DNP, will deliver a research backed update on dementia drugs, anxiolytics, anticholinergics, antidepressants, antipsychotics, sleep disorder medications and management of delirium after COVID-19 recovery, including the long-term implications discovered on the neurological system. She is an adult nurse practitioner, currently focusing on geriatric and psychiatric care in long-term care.
Geriatric GI Dilemmas: Insights and Tools from a Clinical Gastroenterologist
Click here for information about Peter Buch
Peter Buch, MD, AGAF, FACP, will elevate your knowledge with new clinical tools and insights to address unique GI challenges your geriatric patients experience – including colonoscopic evaluations, proton pump inhibitor use, constipation, rectal bleeding, guaiac tests and alarm symptoms. Dr. Buch is a clinical gastroenterologist with over 30 years of specialty experience to draw from.
Geriatric Skin and Wound Care: Prevention Strategies, Current Treatments & Less Litigation Risk
Click here for information about Heidi Huddleston Cross
Heidi Huddleston Cross, MSN, RN, FNP-BC, CWON®, will share her expertise so that you can identify emerging skin issues quickly and initiate the best plan for healing. Improve your skin and wound assessments and treatments, meeting the current standards of care and with less litigation risk. Heidi is a board-certified Wound and Ostomy Nurse, has extensive experience caring for wound and ostomy patients in acute care and long-term care and provides expert witness for plaintiff and defense attorneys related to her specialty.
Geriatric Pharmacology: Practical Application Through Patient Cases
** 2 pharmacology CE hours**
Click here for information about Kiplee Bell
Kiplee Bell, MD, will deliver a comprehensive and up-to-date geriatric medication review. She will walk you through pharmacological treatments for common geriatric conditions and diagnoses. Pharmacological application will be explored through the body systems: neuro, endocrine, cardiac, pulmonary, GI, infectious disease and musculoskeletal. Kiplee earned board certification as a Physician Assistant, an additional master's degree in Gerontology, and finally her Doctorate in Medicine. Currently, she treats geriatric patients for a wide variety of medical and behavioral symptoms.
Pharmacology of Pain Management for End-of-Life Care
Click here for information about Dr. Paul Langlois
Dr. Paul Langlois, APN, Ph.D., CCRN, CCNS, CNRN, will draw on over 30 years of experience assessing and managing patients with life-threatening conditions to update your practice on the end-of-life pain experience, selection of analgesic and sedating medication, and will provide a valuable pain management algorithm. Paul is a critical care clinical specialist in the Surgical, Medical, Neurologic, Burn, CCU and Trauma ICUs of Cook County Hospital, Chicago.
Certification...Made Simple!
In just three easy steps, you will become a Certified Geriatric Care Professional (CGCP):
Step 1: Watch the online summit and bonus content.
Step 2: Complete the CE tests and instantly print your certificates of completion.
Step 3: Submit your certificates of completion, application form, and professional license to Evergreen Certifications and we'll cover the cost of your certification for 2 years (a $249.99 value!).
Click here for full Certification requirements
*Professional standards apply. Learn more at www.evergreencertifications.com/cgcp
Here's a peek at some of the cutting-edge interventions and approaches:
COVID-19 and Influenza Vaccine Updates:
Eric Wombwell, PharmD, BCIDP
Get the most up-to-date and accurate scientific information on prevalence of variants, dominant strains, timing of vaccines, vaccine efficacies and safety data.
Geriatric Psychopharmacology Updates & Trends:
Nanette Lavoie-Vaughan, MSN, ANPCP-DNP
Get the latest medication updates on dementia drugs, anxiolytics, anticholinergics, antidepressants, antipsychotics, sleep disorder medications and management of delirium from COVID.
Challenging Geriatric Behaviors:
Edward Shaw, MD, MA
Learn the best strategies to manage the most difficult age and dementia-related behaviors such as agitation, aggression, wandering, sexual behaviors, sundowning, refusals to eat and insomnia.
Skin and Wound Care Strategies:
Heidi Huddleston Cross, MSN, RN, FNP-BC, CWON®
Review current research supporting prevention strategies, dressing selection and treatment decisions to decrease litigation risk.
Fall Prevention Solutions:
Shelly Denes, PT, CFPS, C/NDT, CGCP
Learn today's best practices, guidelines & standards in fall prevention techniques to avoid unnecessary harm to patients and regulatory risks.
Drug Prescribing and Deprescribing in Older Adults:
Know how to effectively utilize medications in aging patients to minimize drug interactions and appropriately start and stop medications.
Brain Lesions, Cognitive Changes & Behavioral Control:
Jerome Quellier, MS, CCC-SLP
Take a deep dive into site specific brain lesions that affect behavior and thinking skills to anticipate patient barriers to emotions, sensory awareness, engagement and compliance.
Geriatric Medical-Legal Concerns:
Rachel Cartwright-Vanzant, PhD, LHRM, CCRN-K
Learn how to avoid the latest legal pitfalls surrounding advance care planning, advance directives, DNR orders, and elder abuse/neglect.
REGISTER TODAY! SAVE $ AND GAIN CLINICAL EXCELLENCE
Register for this LIVE online summit without risk. If you're not completely satisfied, give us a call at 800-844-8260.
Toon, SM, Westwood, RF, Styles, P ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6370-5903 and Cassidy, N (2018) Reducing the Risk of Felt Seismicity During Hydraulic Fracturing: How close is too close? An Analysis of the Effect of Operational Parameters on the Stress Change to Pre-existing Faults. Geophysical Research Abstracts.
EGU2018-6435.pdf - Published Version
Official URL: https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/?#abs/2018EGUGA..20....
Hydraulic fracturing is widely used in the petroleum industry to enhance oil and gas production, especially for the extraction of shale gas from unconventional reservoirs. A good understanding of the vertical distance which should be preserved between hydraulic stimulation and overlying aquifers (potable water) has been previously demonstrated as being greater than 600 metres (2000 feet). However, the effective application of this technique depends on many factors; one of particular importance is the influence of the fracturing process on pre-existing fractures and faults in the reservoir. Specifically, the identification of the required respect distance, that is distance which must be maintained between the hydraulic fracturing location and pre-existing faults, is of paramount importance in minimizing the risk of induced seismicity. This is an important consideration for setting the guidelines for operational procedures by legislative authorities. We investigate the respect distance using a Monte Carlo approach, generating fifty discrete fracture networks for each of three fracture intensities, on which a hydraulic fracturing simulation is run, using FracMan®. The Coulomb stress change of the rock surrounding the simulated injection stage is calculated for three weighted source mechanisms combining inflation, strike-slip and reverse. The lateral respect distance is obtained using values from literature of the amount of stress required to induce movement on a pre-existing fault. We find that the lateral respect distance is dependent on fracture intensity and the failure threshold. However, the weighting of the source mechanism has limited effect on the lateral respect distance. We then investigate the effect that changing two operational parameters (flow rate and pumping time) and differential pressure has on the flow distance, fracture network area and the minimum lateral distance that hydraulic fracturing should occur from a pre-existing fault in order not to reactivate it; thus reducing the risk of felt seismicity. Sensitivity analyses are conducted using a Monte Carlo approach. Results show that the flow rate has the smallest rate of change for fracture area (3700 m2 per 0.01 m3/s) and flow distance (8.3 m per 0.01 m3/s). We find that differential pressure has the largest impact on stimulated fracture area. The pumping time has the most significant effect on the flow distance (48 m/hr) and the stress threshold value has the most significant effect on the lateral respect distance. We suggest that to reduce the lateral distance, a compromise is required between flow distance and fracture area. The results obtained by this research provide invaluable guidance for operational practice in determining the potential area of the induced fracture network and generated stress field under realistic hydraulic fracturing conditions, an important aspect for risk assessments. This work was supported by SHEER (Shale gas Exploration and Exploitation Induced Risks), which has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 640896.
Conference abstract from 20th EGU General Assembly, EGU2018, Proceedings from the conference held 4-13 April, 2018 in Vienna, Austria, p.6435; made available under CC-BY (Creative Commons Attribution License)
Twitter for Higher Education | Carrie Price, MLS
Twitter for Higher Education
Live Tweeting the Meeting
Becoming a Twitter Pro
Ethics in the Twitterverse
A Selected Bibliography about Twitter in Medicine
Shape your professional profile using platforms like Twitter ( Azu, et al., 2012) and bring awareness to your field of research. Anyone searching the internet might find you!
Choose a hashtag or hashtags that you can use when you Tweet about research of interest. Using the hashtags will help make the tweets discoverable.
Have your research team create Twitter profiles to tweet their and others' research.
Keep a departmental list of Twitter users so that you can easily tag each other.
Consider holding a Twitter-based Journal Club or Virtual Chat.
Live-tweeting events and conferences can allow for engagement beyond the attendees and enable a thoughtful conversation to continue past the event ( Barnes, et al., 2018).
Choose a hashtag for the event and tell participants about it in registration materials, on the website, and at the event.
Mark all tweets about the event with the chosen hashtag.
Ask the conference team to create or share their Twitter handles. Tag them in the Tweets when appropriate (on authored papers, on events where they are presenting, etc.).
Put together a master list of event-related Twitter users for the event that participants can follow and tag.
Download the Twitter app to your smartphone or use the Twitter website or both.
Add a professional photo and write a brief bio about your areas of interest. You can use hashtags in your bio to be more easily discoverable.
Follow users and accounts in your areas of interest.
Check your Twitter feed once or twice a day to like and retweet content of interest, or respond to others' tweets to start a respectful discussion.
When you feel comfortable, you can begin tweeting on your own.
Keep a separate professional account and refrain from engaging in sensitive topics, like politics, from your professional account.
Use a professional photo so that you are recognizable to your peers.
Retain personal boundaries and be mindful of giving out too much identifying information since all the information is public.
Don't tweet anything you wouldn't say out loud in public.
Photos, GIFs, graphics, and links receive more engagements than just text.
You can incorporate polls into your tweets to get feedback from key stakeholder groups.
DO ask permission to share photos of colleagues and peers before posting.
DO cite your sources.
DO stick to professional and collegial discourse.
DON'T share patient information or photographs without explicit consent.
DON'T diagnose or give medical medical advice.
DON'T share speaker slides if they ask you not to.
DON'T share unpublished data.
Reference: Barnes, S. S., Kaul, V., & Kudchadkar, S. R. (2019). Social media engagement and the critical care medicine community. Journal of Intensive Care Medicine, 34(3), 175-182. https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0885066618769599
Impressions – the number of times a tweet shows up in a uers's timeline
Engagements – the number of times a user interacts with a tweet
Retweet – sharing someone else's tweet on your timeline
Like – liking someone else's tweet by pressing the heart
Reply – leaving a comment on someone else's tweet
Hashtag – content marked with a # to make tweets discoverable
Mentions – tagging another user with their handle
Followers – users who are viewing your content
Following – users whose content appears in your timeline
Azu, M.C., Lilley, E.J., & Kolli, A.H. (2012). Social media, surgeons, and the Internet: an era or an error? The American Surgeon, 78(5), 555-558. https://doi.org/10.1177/000313481207800537
Barnes, S. S., Kaul, V., & Kudchadkar, S. R. (2019). Social media engagement and the critical care medicine community. Journal of Intensive Care Medicine, 34(3), 175-182. https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0885066618769599
Daneshjou, R., & Adamson, A. S. (2020). Twitter Journal Clubs: Medical Education in the Era of Social Media. JAMA Dermatology. [https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamadermatology/article-abstract/2762875] (https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamadermatology/article-abstract/2762875)
Eysenbach, G. (2011). Can tweets predict citations? Metrics of social impact based on Twitter and correlation with traditional metrics of scientific impact. Journal of Medical Internet Research, 13(4), e123. https://doi.org/10.2196/jmir.2012
Kress, D., Godack, C. A., Berwanger, T. L., & Davidson, P. M. (2018). The new script of nursing: using social media and advances in communication to create a contemporary image of nursing. Contemporary Nurse, 54(4-5), 388–394. https://doi.org/10.1080/10376178.2018.1537720
Pemmaraju, N., Mesa, R. A., Majhail, N. S., & Thompson, M. A. (2017). The use and impact of Twitter at medical conferences: best practices and Twitter etiquette. Seminars in Hematology, 54(4), 184-188. https://doi.org/10.1053/j.seminhematol.2017.08.003
Van Noorden, R. (2014). Online collaboration: Scientists and the social network. Nature news, 512(7513), 126. https://www.nature.com/news/online-collaboration-scientists-and-the-social-network-1.15711
Ventola C. L. (2014). Social media and health care professionals: benefits, risks, and best practices. P & T: a peer-reviewed Journal for Formulary Management, 39(7), 491–520. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4103576/
The content of this guide was originally created by me for the Welch Medical Library Research Guides at Johns Hopkins University.
DMP Curriculum | Medical Physics | Vanderbilt University
MSMP Curriculum
DMP Curriculum
The DMP Medical Physics Program offers only the discipline of diagnostic medical physics. The track requires a minimum of 50 credit hours of didactic classroom and laboratory instruction, 6 credit hours of independent study, and 36 credit hours of clinical training (clinic rotations). Years 1 and 2 will emphasize the didactic classroom and laboratory instruction. Clinical training will total a minimum of 24 months. Limited introductory clinical training called Practicum (approximately 3 full-time equivalent months) will occur in Year 2; the intent is to introduce each student to the clinical environment with a standard set of minimal experiences and requirements to complete and submit for grading. The student will receive 6 credit hours for the successful completion of the Practicum.
Additionally, students must pass an oral qualifying exam by the end of their fifth term in the program.
Students in the DMP program who complete all of the necessary degree requirements for the MSMP. degree, including passing the oral qualifying exam, are awarded the MSMP (in passing). Thus, DMP students entering year 3 are regarded as having completed a graduate degree in medical physics and can correctly be referred to as "medical physics residents."
Beginning with the Summer Semester of Year 2 and with intended completion in the Summer of Year 3, the student will choose a doctoral independent study topic (6 credit hours), a mentor, and a Research Project Committee from the Medical Physics Faculty. The independent research topic subject matter and the mentor must be approved by the Program Director. The independent study will include a literature survey, experimental design of materials, equipment, and methodology, experimental measurements, and/or theoretical calculations (as required). The chosen research proposal will be presented formally to the Research Project Committee. Data collection, final data analysis, results and conclusions will complete the research experience. The study will be the equivalent of four to five months full-time effort. A final report in manuscript format consistent with medical physics literature manuscript submission is required. Additionally, the student is encouraged to submit the research subject matter in an abstract form appropriate for presentation at a national scientific meeting or a peer-reviewed medical physics journal. An oral presentation of the subject material before the Research Project Committee and including medical physics faculty, staff, and students will conclude the independent study. Final independent research grade evaluation will be the responsibility of the mentor.
At the conclusion of Year 2 (Summer), the student will be assigned a Clinical Physics Mentor by the Program Director. The Clinical Physics Mentor will be responsible for the student's completion of Year 3 and Year 4 requirements. Each of the clinical rotations for Year 3 in both the radiotherapy and diagnostic tracks will be repeated in Year 4. The intent of the repeat rotations is that the student will observe and participate during Year 3 and will gain the necessary training and experience for competency in each clinical area in Year 4. Evaluation for completion of each rotation may include, treatment planning documentation, quality assurance reports, and competency examinations. The Clinical Physics Mentor will be responsible for collection and scoring of the evaluation materials. Academic grades for individual rotations will be on the scale A, B, C, or Fail. Semester grades will be submitted to the School of Medicine Registrar's Office with a copy given to the Program Director. The student must successfully complete the necessary requirements and acquired clinical skills before the Clinical Physics Mentor and Program Director will allow progression to the next rotation. Should the student not successfully complete a rotation with the minimum grade of C, the Clinical Physics Mentor and Program Director will meet with the student to discuss remedial action to resolve the discrepancy. The student will be required to correctly complete all documentation and reports in a timely manner and may be required to take a written or oral examination over the materials within that rotation; the student's failing semester grade cannot be raised above a grade of C. Should the student not successfully complete the remedial assignments and/or fail the oral examination, that rotation must be retaken at the conclusion of Year 4 (Summer). Hence, this will extend the clinical rotation(s) beyond the normal twenty four month period. The DMP Medical Physics Program and the School of Medicine require a cumulative GPA of 3.0 at the time of graduation. With the successful completion of all clinical rotations, the student will have received a total of 30 credit hours during Years 3 & 4. Specific degree requirements for both tracks are listed below.
How services can improve the mental health of veterans | MHT
Written by Professor Neil Greenberg, Lead for Military and Veterans Health at the Royal College of Psychiatrists.
As the crisis in Afghanistan unfolded last year, many veterans who served there may have asked themselves if the sacrifices they and others made were worth it. For some, it may have brought back distressing memories of the atrocities they saw while on active duty or indeed forced them to recall, potentially re-evaluate, the decisions that were taken under the most difficult of circumstances.
Members of the armed forces are regularly exposed to events and challenging conditions because of their job. Most veterans won't experience longer-term mental health difficulties because of their military experiences, but a significant minority will. Those who do often don't seek help despite there being a lot of support available. Their condition may also affect those close to them, particularly their spouses and children, which is why delivering high-quality veterans mental health care is crucial to helping them recover and live full lives as civilians.
Operation Courage: supporting veterans' mental health in the wake of war
Substance Use Disorder and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) are mental illnesses more commonly experienced by members of the armed forces than those who've never served. Data from the King's Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR) shows that nearly 1 in 5 military veterans whose last deployment was in a combat role may be suffering from PTSD. Around 1 in 10 of those who served are likely to experience alcohol use disorder.
See also: '230,000 new PTSD referrals forecast in new expert modelling'
See also: 'I was told my case was too complicated – accessing veterans mental health services'
While the rate of suicide among those serving isn't higher than civilians, there is no up-to-date or robust evidence on which to assess the rates of suicide among veterans. This must change if we're to fully understand the potentially devasting consequences of a mental illness on our veterans.
There have been increases in the number of serving and ex-personnel seeking help for their mental illness. A recent KCMHR study found that a third of those with a mental health problem had seen a mental health specialist, and half had consulted a GP or a Medical Officer. Those who don't seek help often believe that their mental illness isn't serious enough to warrant support and want to deal with the problem themselves. Some service personnel, and veterans, also question the quality of mental health services available for them.
See also: 'What does PTSD and anxiety look like in the brain?'
Over the last few years, much work and investment have dramatically improved NHS veterans' mental health services. The NHS provides dedicated mental health services for veterans, which can be accessed through Operation Courage in England, with similar services available across the UK. There's also a myriad of military charities who deliver a range of care and support for military veterans and their families.
Two important resources for improving accessibility
However, there are two important pieces of work that will not only further improve services for veterans but also aim to help those who are reluctant to access mental healthcare to come forward for the help they need.
Firstly, the Royal College of Psychiatrists' Centre for Quality Improvement launched a quality network for veterans' mental health services in 2020. It's introducing new, specific quality standards for these organisations and will help improve outcomes by improving the quality of service provision and by supporting consistency across services.
Secondly, the KCMHR veterans' mental health conference is supported by the Royal College of Psychiatrists and takes place in March. It attracts delegates from a wide range of charities, academic institutions, the NHS, and government with the intention of providing them with up to date and emerging evidence and policy information as well as being a great place to network and share experience and relevant information. The event tends to sell out quickly; tickets and information about this year's conference are available online now.
Compliance Investigator Jobs in Maryland | Salary.com
... compliance. The Associate Director, Clinical Operations typically works on the more complex and ... Investigator selection, systems (e.g., CTMS, IXRS, etc.), clinical trial-related operational ...
... wide range of investigations, cyber security, due diligence and compliance, physical and ... operational security, and data and information management services. Through a combination of in ...
... compliance of CSL written procedures. Initiate investigation to ensure documentation of deficiencies and development of corrective action plans, as necessary in partnership with management. 9 ...
The incumbent serves as Compliance Officer responsible for compliance functions and as the primary ... Background Investigation Requirement: All employees must pass a security investigation. Failing to ...
The Compliance Specialist is responsible for ensuring that the CCO for ProShares, ProFunds and ... Projects will also be assigned by the CCO for research and investigation. Essential Job Functions ...
... investigator sites, vendors and internal systems to ensure overall quality system compliance for Clinical. Responsibilities And Job Duties * Manages and/or conducts the planning, execution and ...
Quality Specialist & Validation Engineer
... investigations with Quality Assurance • Acts as a Quality member on validation teams, providing support for validation compliance • Assists in the conduct of qualification audits of service ...
... investigations etc.) to ensure completeness, accuracy and compliance. • Serves in a decision-making capacity on major document changes, deviations, corrective and preventive actions, change ...
Establishment of verification system for measurement results (monitoring) of practical emission reductions Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute. REDD Research and Development Center.
3 Establishment of verification system for measurement results (monitoring) of practical emission reductions
The use of remote sensing for monitoring forest cover conditions and carbon stocks is encouraged to ensure transparency, comparability, consistency, completeness, and accuracy when implementing REDD+. Thus, the monitoring results by remote sensing need to be examined and evaluate their accuracy. However, observation data on the ground are insufficient in developing countries, meeting these requirements is not easy. In this sub-theme, we aim to develop a verification system for measuring practical results for REDD+ in developing countries. In 2016, we 1) improved reading cards created by 2016 and introduced drones for ground survey, 2) introduced seasonal change information to interpret the seasonal forest, to achieve this objective.
(2) Improvement of reading cards and introduction of drone to ground survey
①Additional latest Landsat image field
Until 2015, we established 3-km grids throughout Cambodia to create reading cards to interpret the condition of the land cover at about 20,000 points of the intersections using Google Earth. Comparing these interpreted results with that conducted by the ground survey until last year, misinterpretation was occurred such as; deciduous forest in interpretation was the grassland or farmland in the ground survey and the evergreen forest in interpretation was farmland in the ground survey. There was no misinterpretation between the deciduous forest and the evergreen forest. Furthermore, there was a misinterpretation of reading that it was evergreen forest in interpretation but farmland in the ground survey. No misinterpretation between the deciduous forest and the evergreen forest was found. From this fact, with the high-resolution satellite data adopted in Google Earth, almost no misreading of deciduous forest and evergreen forest was seen, but the land cover interpreted as forest was read as different land cover type. Examining these mistakes, the land cover interpreted as forest in Google Earth was converted to other land use at the time of survey. Therefore, we added the Landsat images acquired on the day close to the survey date to the field adjacent to interpreted Google Earth images.
②Addition of biomass fields
We calculated above-ground biomass for forests that carried out ground survey by 2015 and added fields to the interpretation cards.
Fig. 15 Interpretation cards added biomass fields and Landsat image fields (Note: latitude and longitude are not included.)
③Creation of database to ArcGIS (Fig. 16)
We imported the database of interpretation cards into ArcGIS and improved it so that it can analyze relationship with other spatial data on GIS.
The creation of the database of interpretation cards was completed at 240 points surveyed by the Cambodian counterpart by 2015. The survey conducted in 2016 will be imported to ArcGIS as soon as the research results are completed, and the database will be created.
Fig. 16 Interpretation cards imported to ArcGIS
④Introduction of drone to confirm land cover condition
In the field survey for establishing verification system, when the survey is conducted in the forest, a complete enumeration is conducted to measure tree height and breast height diameter using sampling obtained by counting tree. On the other hand, for the land use other than forest, only the condition of the land cover is verified. In order to verify the land cover condition, take photos in four directions from the center of the survey site and record in the field note. It does not take time for the survey itself, but it takes time to reach the survey site and is hard work for researchers. Therefore, the improvement of the verification work of land cover condition will greatly affect the establishment of verification system.
In 2016, we introduced drone for the efficient verification of the land cover condition. Prior to the introduction, we invited researchers from the host country and conducted training how to fly the drone safely in the forest of the Hokkaido Research Center (Fig. 17). The purpose of introducing the drone is to verify the condition of the land cover other than forest. Since the drone is expected to be used for the forest measurement in the future, we also conducted training to create point group data, 3D model of canopy, and Digital Surface Model (DSM) from aerial photographs taken from the drone. After the workshop for introducing the drone in Cambodia (Fig. 18), we joined the field survey and explained how to shoot images from the drone in the field (Fig. 19).
Fig. 17 Training for safety flying in the Hokkaido Research Center (left) and training for aerial photo analysis (right)
Fig. 18 Workshop in the Forestry Administration, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Cambodia
Fig. 19 Training how to fly drone (left) and aerial photographs (right)
(3) Introduction of seasonal change information to interpret seasonal forests
The land cover map created by the Cambodian government is classified by visually interpreting objects segmented using Landsat images at multiple times. Since most of the images used for visual interpretation are cloudless acquired during the dry season, it is difficult to intuitively know the seasonality of forest, which sometimes result in misinterpreting. Here, we tried to map forest seasonal change information using high-frequency observation satellite and introduced seasonal change information for interpreting the seasonal forest.
The used data are 40 scenes of NDVI 10-day of PROVA-V acquired between December 1, 2013 and January 2015. PROBA-V was launched by ESA to take over the vegetation mission of the SPOT VEGETATION. The spatial resolution is 100 m (immediately below) and 360 m (both ends of swath) in VNIR (visible light region), and 200 m (immediately below) and 600 m (both ends of the swath) in SWIR (short wavelength infrared region). NDVI 10-day is created with a spatial resolution of 333m as a product.
Fig. 20 Seasonal change of NDVI that reduced noise by principal component analysis
(Axis X of the graph indicates the time obtained from 40 scenes of the 10-day data.)
This spatial resolution 333 m is higher resolution than the spatial resolution of the high frequency observation satellite NDVI product that have been used to date (1 km for NOAA AVHRR, SPOT VEGETATION, 500 m for Terra/Aqua MODIS). We performed principal component analysis for 40 scenes of NDVI data in time series, and created time series NDVI data that reduced the influence of noise by performing inverse transformation using up to the third principal component (Fig. 20). From the principal component analysis image, we created color composite image (red: the second principal component, green: the first principal component, blue: the third principal component) (Fig. 21). With the principal component analysis, the first principal component is considered to show the annual average of NDVI, the second principal component show the annual change of NDVI with a cycle of half a year, and the third and subsequent principal component show shorter cycle variations than that. Therefore, in the color composite image created from the principal component image shown in Fig. 3-24, green is evergreen forest and yellow is deciduous forest. These images can be used on Collect Earth by converting to KMZ file.
Fig. 21 Color composite image created from principal component analysis image
(red: the second principal component, green: the first principal component, blue: the third principal component)
In "the improvement of interpretation cards created by 2015", we added a field showing the above-ground biomass calculated from the complete enumeration data obtained from the ground survey and a field of the Landsat image acquired at the date and time close to the time of the ground survey, and imported them to ArcGIS to create database on GIS software. This makes it possible to associate with satellite data analysis results and to easily confirm the accuracy of the interpretation result of the satellite image for preparing the land cover map. In the ground survey, with the introduction of drone, traveling time to the study site was shortened and the time required for forest survey was increased.
In "the introduction of seasonal change information for interpreting seasonal forest", we introduced seasonal change information useful for interpretation using NDVI data of the high-frequency observation satellite PROBA-V with a ground resolution of 333 m.
It is necessary to compile the technology developed by 2016 in a manual and propose a method that multiple readers can verify the work of satellite image and the result of that, while sharing the information.
