Author: Douzragore Akinokree
ISBN: 840-1-69743-630-3
In other words, this condition can lead to periodontal pockets and periodontal disease. If you use ad-blocking software, it may require you to allow JavaScript from.
As this gap becomes wider, even more bacteria are allowed access to the sensitive tissue fibers along the root's outer surface, and much damage can be done.
The procedure can last from minutes up to an hour depending on the number of teeth and the complexity of the case. The procedures for this dental procedure code are fairly straightforward despite their surgical nature. Likewise, a gingivoplasty which can re-shape the gumline, can be used to combat disease in oddly shaped or overgrown gums. Although gingivectomy was initially developed to treat periodontal disease, it is now a common Cosmetic Surgeryalso. They will also schedule regular checkups to control the progress after the procedure.
During the recovery, patients need to provide good oral hygiene and wash their mouth with antibacterial mouthwash. In many cases root planing, scaling and antibiotics are not effective enough. This type of surgery adds tissue to the gum line.
The causes can include a person's genes, disease or trauma. The main purpose is that the patient gets a whole new, natural appearance of his gums and smile. Therefore, once this depth is determined, the gum tissue is cut at a 45 degree angle to the tooth, with the downward slope of the angle aiming toward the tooth's root.
This dental procedure code is somewhat unique in that it covers more than one specific procedure. It is used to remove overgrown gum tissue and improve the appearance of the gums.
The patient gets numbed, in order to avoid pain. What is a gingivectomy? Periodontal disease affects the gums and the bone to which a tooth is attached. Other reasons include genetic gingival defects and malformations, crown lengthening, trauma and more.
Gingivoplasty reshapes the gums to make them look more natural. Gum disease is, in fact, a progressive condition that is caused by bacteria. Patients are mostly allowed to eat soft food. Symptoms can include bleeding from the gums, bone loss that displays itself on an x-ray, excessive tooth mobility, gum recession, or the existence of any exudate pus or clear fluid along or under, the gumline.
It is often is done simply to make gums look better. The cut the dentist makes in this procedure is the same sort of cut you would make if you were wanting to remove a portion of the wood from a pencil to get to a stubby graphite tip.
The pathogen bacteria that cause this condition tend to cause inflammation of the gum tissue and bone tissue, which results with deep periodontal pockets. Dentists refer to this cut as apical. This procedure also can be done right after gingivectomy for the same purpose. For the second hingivoplasty, dentists use a special gum graft.
Before Excessive Gum Tissue. All modern browsers support JavaScript. The periodontal dressing stays for 7 to 10 days. Applied Dental Software — The modern way of implant dentistry. What is the purpose of gingivectomy? Just like with the gingivectomy, the patient has to provide a good oral hygiene and wash the mouth with antibacterial mouthwash. In order to arrest the progression of the disease, a gingivectomy is often prescribed.
While most gingivectomies are usually performed with a scalpel, they can also be performed using electrosurgery units, diamond burrs, and lasers. There are several ways to perform gingivectomy. There are dentists that only practice the surgical gingivectomy and they use a surgical scalpel to remove the gum tissue.
Gingivoplasty is also a surgical gingivop,asty, very similar to gingivectomy. By removing the pocket walls, gingivectomy provides visibility and accessibility to remove calculus and thoroughly smooth the tooth roots. Once the procedure is complete, a surgical dressing would be placed on the gum tissue that has been cut, and you will be given instructions as to how you should care for your mouth in the days following the procedure.
Wide-Area Modeling, Monitoring and Control of Large Power Systems Using Phasor Measurement Technology | TCIPG: Trustworthy Cyber Infrastructure for the Power Grid
Wide-Area Modeling, Monitoring and Control of Large Power Systems Using Phasor Measurement Technology
Aranya Chakrabortty, North Carolina State University, FREEDM Systems Center
Friday, October 7, 2011 - 1:00pm
In this talk I will present an analytical framework for constructing tools for wide-area modeling, monitoring and damping control of power systems using Synchrophasor measurements with the objective of capturing and analyzing the macroscopic properties of such system dynamics over different time-scales of operation. Traditional methods of dynamic equivalencing are either based on model-based methods, which are computationally expensive, or on simulation-based techniques, which are too simplistic to capture the inter-area dynamics between the oscillation clusters in multi-modal systems. The first part of the talk will circumvent this problem by developing model-reduction methods by which the electro-mechanical dynamics coupling different parts of a large grid can be modeled accurately based solely on electrical measurements available from Phasor Measurement Units (PMU). The second part of the presentation will focus on deploying these macroscopic models for developing tools for situational awareness, transient stability monitoring and inter-area oscillation damping control. Ideas from passivity theory and model reference control will be used to construct such designs. A brief note on how the PMUs should be placed optimally in the network for generating the most accurate modeling and control strategies, especially when the PMU data are noisy and unreliable, will also be discussed. The overall motivation of the talk would be to understand how the WAMS technology can help us in gaining valuable insight about the physical behavior of the North American grid as it becomes more expansive, and, therefore, more complex over the next few years.
Aranya Chakrabortty is an Assistant Professor in the Electrical & Computer Engineering department of North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC. Before joining NC State, he was an Assistant Professor in Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, prior to which he was a post-doctoral research associate in the Aeronautics and Astronautics department of the University of Washington, Seattle. He received his Ph.D degree in Electrical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY in 2008. His research interests are in power systems dynamics and control using emerging technologies such as Wide-Area Monitoring systems (WAMS). Dr. Chakrabortty is a member of IEEE Power and Energy Society (PES), IEEE Control Systems Society (CSS), and contributes actively to the North American Synchrophasor Initiative (NASPI). He received the NSF CAREER award in 2011.
Lower Back Pain Takes Deeper Roots -
Currently in the medical field, we are realizing and acknowledging that physical pain often takes deeper roots. My mentor always reiterates, "Don't chase the pain." Beneath the superficial symptoms is an array of possible causes and aggravating factors of those symptoms. There is no greater example of this than the condition of lower back pain. Lower back pain may first and foremost be due to a true injury of the area. Injured structures can include the strain-sprain of a joint, muscle/fascia, disc, and/or ligament. I first recognize if an injury occurred that allowed this to happen. If spinal joint misalignment or soft tissue injury is indeed the culprit, chiropractic adjustments along with specific muscle therapies to re-establish muscular balance can oftentimes resolve the issue and greatly reduce the pain. Sometimes the patient will also need nutritional support to aid in the healing process, such as the tissue components and nutrients needed for musculoskeletal repair and maintenance.
Oftentimes, internal issues will cause lower back pain. These can include Ileocecal Valve irritation and intestinal inflammation. Irritation of the valve or intestines in general can cause dysfunction of certain muscles, such as the important quad and abdominal muscles, among others, as well as increased fluid in the area which will cause increased pressure on the soft tissue structures.
In addition to the intestinal system and diet, there is another organ system that, if it becomes stressed, can lead to lower back pain. This is the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid-adrenal axis. The adrenal glands sit on top of the kidneys, and while they are pea-sized, they are two of the most important glands in the body. The adrenal glands handle stress in the body, including physical, biochemical, and mental/emotional stresses. The adrenal glands happen to be related to two of the most important hip stabilizer muscles in the body as well, the sartorius and gracilis muscles. When these two bad boys shut off due to adrenal fatigue and hypofunction, the pelvis/hip region becomes unstable and often misaligned. People oftentimes experience inner knee pain with this as well. Not only can these muscles become dysfunctional, leading to lower back and hip pain, but the adrenal glands also can release high levels of cortisol, the stress hormone. Unfortunately, cortisol likes to eat away at our precious ligaments, especially the ligaments of the sacroiliac joints (where the spine meets the pelvis) and the upper neck. This also leads to instability and pain in those joints.
There are many other possible contributors to lower back pain in the structural, emotional, and biochemical realm, but I hope you now see that lower back pain requires a comprehensive diagnosis and treatment by your Applied Kinesiologist/Chiropractor! Address ALL the contributing factors, and that lower back pain will be long gone!
Cost-Sharing Roundtable — The Patient Assistance Safety Net: How Many Need Help? How Many Are Helped? | AJMC
April 09, 2018 –
April 05, 2018 –
Dan Klein, president and CEO of the Patient Access Network (PAN) Foundation, lists possible policy changes that would strengthen the safety net.
April 04, 2018 –
March 04, 2018 –
Federally qualified health centers pay an important role in providing primary care and preventive services for patients who may have trouble accessing this care because of their insurance status, explained M. Kristina Wharton, MPH, of the Department of Global Health Management and Policy at Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine.
UAB - School of Medicine - News - UAB gets $9.7 million to find treatments for deadly lung disease pulmonary fibrosis
UAB gets $9.7 million to find treatments for deadly lung disease pulmonary fibrosis
The grant will fund three major projects at UAB, which share the unified goal of developing therapeutic agents to target the activated myofibroblast in the treatment of IPF. Anti-fibrotic therapies, if proved effective, may also be tested in other clinical disorders outside the lung characterized by the presence of persistent myofibroblasts.
One project will examine a novel hypothesis that pleural mesothelial cells — cells that line the outer surface of the lung — contribute to the formation of myofibroblasts. Led by Veena Antony, M.D., professor of medicine, this project will explore new approaches to drug delivery aimed at pleural mesothelial cells.
A second project, led by Gang Liu, M.D., associate professor of medicine, will focus on microRNAs that are down-regulated, or shut off, during IPF. Liu's laboratory will look for ways to boost the presence and production of these anti-fibrotic microRNAs.
Thannickal leads the third project, aimed at an oxidant-generating enzyme, NOX4, which has been identified as a key enzyme in the development of fibrosis in the lungs and other organs. This project will test the efficacy of inhibiting the activity of this enzyme with small molecule inhibitors or delivery of small interfering RNA to down-regulate its expression.
Thannickal envisions the effort will ultimately stretch over 10 years. The first five years will involve drug discovery and preclinical studies of potential therapeutic agents in the laboratory, along with preliminary safety studies of any new agents. A second effort, also likely to follow a five-year time frame, would then translate new findings into human use with advanced clinical trials.
The grant will fund three central cores to facilitate the ongoing research, consisting of the administrative and biostatistics core, the animal and therapeutics core, and the clinical core. UAB also has many components in place to support and enhance the overall project, including the UAB Lung Health Center, the Interstitial Lung Disease Program, the Pulmonary Biospecimen Repository and the Pulmonary Drug Discovery Program. UAB also has one of the largest clinical practices for IPF in the nation.
"Fibrosis is an unmet clinical need," said Thannickal. "Fibrotic disease affects nearly all organ systems, including the kidney, liver, heart and vascular system. The accumulation of fibrotic tissue in vital organs can lead to end-stage organ failure and ultimately death. An estimated 45 percent of deaths in the United States annually are attributed to fibrotic disease. Successful development of any anti-fibrotic therapeutic will likely have a broad and meaningful impact on millions of health care consumers."
The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network (PCAN) is a United States-based 501(c)3 charity that funds research, provides patient support, conducts community outreach, and advocates for increased federal research funding for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of pancreatic cancer. It was established in 1999, and has raised awareness for pancreatic cancer with the help of businesses and other groups.
The network raises funds for pancreatic cancer research through its "Purple Stride" walkathons, which are organized by its affiliates in various local communities.
In 2013, the President and CEO of the organization is Julie Fleshman.
Official website of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - https://wn.com/Pancreatic_Cancer_Action_Network
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - https://wn.com/Pancreatic_Cancer_Action
Latest News for: pancreatic cancer action network
Hidalgo is a founder of the Pancreatic Cancer ... He is a former member of the Science Committee of Cancer Research UK and a member of the Special Conferences Committee of the American Association of Cancer Research and Scientific Advisory Board of Pancreatic Cancer Action Network....
company ... For every sale, $1 will be donated to the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, in memory of Swayze who died of the disease in 2009. ....
Gary P. Celi, 68, born in Providence, R.I., passed away peacefully at home December 4, 2018, surrounded by his family ... Celi ... In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Gary's memory to the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network....
Mary Senecal Potter OLD SAYBROOK, Conn. - Mary Senecal Potter, 83, passed away peacefully Dec ... In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, 1500 Rosecrans Ave., Suite 200, Manhattan Beach, CA 90266; or to the American Diabetes Association, 2451 Crystal Drive, Suite 900, Arlington, VA 22202 ... .......
DEARBORN – Barbara Hayes was a nursing school student when she got her first closeup look at Wayne County's Meals on Wheels program and the positive impact it has on homebound seniors ... 17 ... "If I need an extra driver, they step up ... She is an active participant in the annual PANCAN Walk, which helps raise money for the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network ... ....
In recent clinical news, on October 10th, it was announced that Tyme's SM-88 will be included in Pancreatic Cancer Action Network's Precision Promise adaptive Phase 2/3 pancreatic cancer trial platform. The trial design is intended to accelerate the development of pancreatic cancer therapies....
The Valley Breeze 24 Nov 2018
Wanda Stott, 100, of Lincoln, passed away Tuesday at The Holiday Retirement Home. She was the wife of the late Thomas A. Stott ... Mrs ... Jude Parish. She is survived by her sons, Gary W ... St ... In lieu of flowers, donations to Pancreatic Cancer Action Network (Pancan) would be appreciated ... Town ... large .......
Supervisors take a moment to bring pancreatic cancer awareness to the forefront
Melinda Thach, volunteer and media relations chair for the Des Moines Affiliate of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, was present at the Story County Board of Supervisors meeting Tuesday to ask for and witness the county's proclamation for November as Pancreatic Cancer ......
The board members and their supporters believed the old school was over-crowded and out of date. Their opponents, in the persons of Larry Hengeveld, W ... Dr ... Tales abound of vandalism to Dr ... Dr ... 16. The family has requested donations in Jon's name be made to Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, 1500 Rosecrans Avenue, Suite 200, Manhattan Beach, CA 90266 ... .......
... to the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network (www.pancan.org)....
Several buildings and landmarks in the region will be illuminated in purple Thursday night to mark World Pancreatic Cancer Day ... Lynne Jakubowski, of Clarence, who lost a husband and brother to the disease, launched the Western New York Affiliate of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network last year to bolster those efforts in the region....
Julie Fleshman, president and CEO of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, joins CBSN to explain why this form of cancer is so hard to treat and what's being done to improve the odds for patients ... ....
November is Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month ... Lawrence has also started working with the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network to raise awareness and important funding for early detection methods ... And part of the reason for that is just because the symptoms are very vague," explained Pancreatic Cancer Action Network volunteer Loredana Gianino....
Masters or PhD level in the computer science, machine learning, applied statistics, mathematics
You will join the Gurgaon office and be part of QuantumBlack. You will work with other data scientists, data engineers, machine learning engineers, designers and project managers on interdisciplinary projects, using maths, stats and machine learning to derive structure and knowledge from raw data across various industry sectors.
As a data scientist at QuantumBlack :
Add real-world impact to your academic expertise; you will be encouraged to write black' papers and present at meetings and conferences should you wish
Attend conferences such as NIPS and ICML as one global team and data science retrospectives where you will have the opportunity to share and learn from your colleagues
Work within one of the largest and most advanced data science teams in London, and support the lead data scientists to develop data science products
As an equal opportunity employer, QuantumBlack encourages applications from all backgrounds regardless of gender, race, disability, pregnancy, marital status, age, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, religion or belief.
We maintain a sense of community rooted in respect and consideration for all employees where any evaluation is based simply upon individual work and team performance.
ETCS - SAS Data Scientist - Machine Learning/Artificial Intelligence (2-8 yrs) Any Location (Analytics & Data Science)
Experience building and interpreting machine learning models on real business data, e.g. na. ve Bayes... ve Bayes, Random Forests, boosted trees, neural networks. Ability to merge different data sources...
You will work with other data scientists, data engineers, machine learning engineers, designers and... At QuantumBlack you have the best of both worlds. all the benefits of being part of one of the leading...
Prognosys Marcom Services - Data Scientist - R/Python/SQL - Internship (0-2 yrs) Any Location (Analytics & Data Science)
Job Description. Data Science using Python, flask, Mobile App development using FutterAWS configuration... Knowledge of R, SQL and Python. willingness to workd as a Data Scientist. Understanding of machine...
Big Data. technologyTranslate complex data and methodology into strategic, operationally feasible insights and recommendationsCommunicate clearly and effectively to technical and non technical...
We are hiring for a leading Financial Organization based at MumbaiPosition. Data Scientist. Financial... 9 years in MSC (Stats), Msc (Maths), Msc. Economics background with Data Scientist. Data Science role...
Data Scientist - Machine Learning/Image Processing (4-12 yrs) Gurgaon/Gurugram (Analytics & Data Science)
Build deep understanding of existing algorithms in spatial and aerial imaging data assets. Categories... Evaluate different imaging platforms, datasets and technologies. Identify libraries and technologies...
Machine Learning Assesment. Machine Learning Models, Linear Regression, Decision Tree,Neural Networks,Bayesian NetworksNo one can deny the fact that as practicing Data Scientists, you will have...
Job Description. 1. Experience with common analysis tools. MS Excel VBA, SQL, R, and Python. 2. Demonstrable familiarity with code and programming concepts. 3. Working knowledge of...
Data Scientist - Machine Learning/Data Analytics (3-10 yrs) Gurgaon/Gurugram (Analytics & Data Science)
Job Responsibilities. Training working professionals on in demand skills like Data Analysis, Machine... Python, R, .Net, Java. Conversant with machine learning and data analysis conceptsPreferred...
Thoucentric - Data Scientist - R/Python/Machine Learning (1-3 yrs) Gurgaon/Gurugram (Analytics & Data Science)
Apply as a Thoucentric - Data Scientist - R/Python/Machine Learning (1-3 yrs) Gurgaon/Gurugram (Analytics & Data Science) in Gurugram, India. Thoucentric Technology Pvt. Ltd. is looking for a Thoucentric - Data Scientist - R/Python/Machine Learning (1-3 yrs) Gurgaon/Gurugram (Analytics & Data Science) . Your duties will be ...
Senior Data Scientist - Statistical Analysis & Machine Learning Algorithms (4-8 yrs) Any Location/Ahmedabad/Mumbai/Navi Mumbai (Analytics & Data Science)
Fluency in a scripting language like R Python. Problem solver using algorithms. Critical thinking. the ability to track down complex data and engineering issues, evaluate different algorithmic...
GameChange - Data Scientist - Machine Learning/Algorithm (3-6 yrs) Delhi NCR (Analytics & Data Science)
We are looking for a Data Scientist who will help us discover the information hidden in vast amounts of... Your primary focus will be to apply data mining techniques, doing statistical analysis, and building...
Job Description Lead a team of data scientists to idea ting, creating and researching or leveraging the... The Successful Applicant Experience in leading data scientists team. Prior work experience in a start up...
Join our team as we reimagine the future of fintech.We are looking for a Senior Data Scientist to mine... We'relooking for individuals who are excited about the opportunity to build data science tools that can...
What you will do Work closely with product owners, designers, data engineers, marketing teams and others... years of related work experience in data analysis and machine learning (such as logistic regression...
The Best DNA Test For Dogs » PuppyHeaven
Home / Uncategorized / The Best DNA Test For Dogs
When it comes to DNA tests, there are several different methods available. Some are more comprehensive than others. For example, one DNA test can detect over 200 different canine health conditions. Another test will provide a three-generation family tree, but the latter does not date back as far as the Embark and Wisdom Panel. Whichever one you choose, your pet will be safe in the knowledge that his or her history is documented.
4 Embark dna test
5 Karlsson uses 200,000 genetic markers
6 Embark offers free retests
7 Embark's veterinary geneticist
8 Other companies that offer dna tests for dogs
Embark's DNA test for dogs can give owners vital information about their pet's health and breed. The genotyping platform of the Embark Breed + Health dog DNA kit uses research-grade DNA analysis to look at over 350 breeds and 210 genetic health risks. You can also trace your dog's ancestors to find out if it is related to a specific breed or family. Unlike some other dog DNA test kits, Embark is the most accurate DNA test for dogs on the market.
Embark's kit provides detailed results in an easy-to-understand format. The results are available online or in a downloadable report that you can print and bring to your veterinarian. Users can register multiple Embark DNA kits under the same account. Embark allows users to create dog profiles and register their dog's Embark kit number. If the dog is a mix-breed, Embark will provide the results in a traditional family tree format.
The Wisdom Panel 3.0 Breed Identification DNA Test Kit covers 250 different breeds, including purebred, mixed-breed, and designer dogs. These tests can provide you with insights about your dog's health and behavior based on its genetic makeup. These tests are ideal for anyone who owns a dog but isn't sure what breed it is. You can also use these kits to identify which dogs are likely to develop health problems or behavioral issues.
While the Wisdom Panel Premium is a little expensive, the test still offers valuable information about your dog's past, which can be helpful for future health and care. It also has a comprehensive family tree, which can help you determine your pet's history. If you don't want to shell out money for a premium test, you can also purchase the lower-cost Wisdom Panel Essential. These tests will identify genetic traits like your dog's ideal body weight, as well as identify the breeds in your dog's heritage.
For the price of Wisdom Panel Essential, you can expect to receive a detailed report with your dog's ancestry, traits, and key health insights. The results are actionable and understandable, and they will help you make informed decisions about your dog's health and well-being. Wisdom Panel DNA tests are an excellent investment for dog owners. Wisdom Panel's DNA testing technology is reliable, accurate, and affordable.
The DNA test developed by Dr. Karlsson, a veterinarian in Sweden, has helped veterinarians determine the cause of many dog diseases, including leukemia. But there are some problems with the Karlsson test, which is not yet widely available. For starters, it can only analyze DNA from dogs, not humans. Also, a sample of saliva from a dog may contain a lot of DNA, so it could miss a small region. A larger sample can fill in the gaps.
The most difficult problem faced by the project was the DNA of dogs. While working at Boston University, Dr. Karlsson studied dogs that are particularly prone to osteosarcoma, such as rottweilers and greyhounds. His goal was to determine whether there were any germline risk factors in these dogs, which could lead to a better treatment or even a cure. The researchers hope to discover the exact cause of osteosarcoma, which is a deadly cancer that affects dogs.
The Embark DNA test for dogs is an online genetic profile that can help you determine your dog's breed, ancestry, and more. The test is incredibly accurate, with around 200,000 genetic markers and one hundred times more information than its competitors. However, it's not free. In fact, you will have to pay about $50 for the test, and if you don't plan on keeping your dog forever, you might want to consider other options.
This product is easy to use and adapt. There are no complicated instructions to read, and it comes in a variety of designs and styles. Embark DNA test for dogs has a good reputation. Many reviews have praised the test, but a few people have expressed dread. Luckily, the company behind the Embark DNA test for dogs offers a refund policy if your dog doesn't pass the test.
The Embark DNA test for dogs is easy to use and does not require a lot of knowledge about genetics. You just need to rub the swab on your dog's cheek for 30 seconds, or underneath its tongue. A stabilizing solution is then applied. The results of the test are typically provided within two to four weeks. During the time between the test and the result, the company will keep you informed about the results so you can make the right choice.
Karlsson uses 200,000 genetic markers
The Darwin's Dogs study is an attempt to link genetic variation with various canine characteristics, including sociability, aggression, and more. The study uses saliva samples to generate a huge genetic data set, and the owners of dogs answer surveys about the dogs' physical and behavioral characteristics. This combined data allows scientists to link genetics to reported behavior. Karlsson hopes to make this information more accessible to the public, and this work is the first step in that direction.
The test is not perfect. The correlation between a test result and disease is weak. Although there are some companies that claim to use the most advanced genetics science, researchers have found that the results are inaccurate 40 percent of the time. The tests are also unregulated and lack independent studies. Karlsson uses 200,000 genetic markers for dogs, but does not release its accuracy rate. Genetic testing for humans is inaccurate about 40% of the time, according to a report in the journal Genetics in Medicine.
Embark offers free retests
Embark DNA tests more than 175 breeds of dogs, covering 98 percent of purebred dogs in the US. Their tests also include village dogs from around the world and species closely related to dogs. They test on an Illumina microarray, using about 200,000 markers to produce accurate results. Embark has only been available for a short time, but the company hopes to attract veterinarians as well.
Unlike most kits, the Embark DNA test provides more information than others. The results show breed composition as percentages, and results less than 5% are combined with the neighboring breed to create a "supermutt" listing. Embark also shows your dog's family tree, going back three generations, and the genetic health status of each member of the family. The Embark genetic tests are accurate to a great extent, and can help you choose a dog that is right for you.
Both Embark and Wisdom Panel test for 210 different breeds, which can be difficult to determine based on a single test. While both services use DNA markers to determine dog breed, Wisdom Panel uses less than half the number of DNA markers that Embark uses. Because Embark uses more markers than Wisdom Panel, it saves on resources. The retests for dogs are free and Embark will retest your dog if you're not sure if you've correctly classified your dog.
Embark's veterinary geneticist
The Embark DNA test for dogs examines the genetic basis of appearance in dogs. It will show how closely your dog resembles other Embark dogs with the same genetic loci, and in some cases, predict the appearance of offspring. Dog coat color can be determined by the number of genetic loci in the coat, and unknown genetic effects may also contribute to coat color. The DNA test also reports information about body features, including size and weight. The Embark veterinary geneticist performs the test for dogs and reports the results within two to four weeks.
Embark's DNA health test screens for more than 160 different genetic diseases and health traits. Veterinary geneticists examine over 200 thousand DNA markers in dogs, which enables dog owners to better prepare for future complications. The test is performed using the same DNA-swab method as MyHeritage DNA, which makes it a convenient way to diagnose your dog's health issues.
Other companies that offer dna tests for dogs
Performing DNA tests on your dog can help you understand his or her breed, ancestry and personality. A DNA test will also provide you with information on hereditary health issues and personality traits. These tests can help you prevent future medical problems by knowing your pet's genetic makeup. These tests can even be done over the internet, and some companies even offer the results in various formats. These can include a customized life plan for your dog.
Depending on the information you need, you might decide to opt for the Wisdom Panel Canine Breed Detection Kit. The Wisdom Panel kit will tell you if your dog is affected by genetic diseases or inherited traits from previous owners. Wisdom Panel is a company that was born out of the Mars Petcare company. Their DNA tests will give you an accurate breakdown of your dog's breed and 25 "must-know" gene mutations. The Wisdom Panel Premium test will give you a detailed report and health insights.
The CustomVisTM PULZAR Z1 laser
Why choose the CustomVisTM PULZAR Z1 laser?
As a patient, you should consult with your doctor about which treatment in general, and which laser in specific, best meets the needs to improve your eye sight. The PULZARTM Z1 laser is different from most other lasers, because it is a 'solid state' laser, whereas other lasers are 'excimer' or toxic-gas based lasers. Solid state lasers have more predictable and stable laser beams for surgery, and can also track the eye at faster speeds compared with older 'excimer' technologies. For patients with significant visual disorders, such as irregular astigmatism, this system may offer many advantages over conventional lasers. Also, recent research suggests that PULZARTM Z1 may also be a more precise treatment for conventional myopia. This research is attached in the Scientific Marketing section of this web site.
How safe is the CustomVisTM PULZAR Z1 Laser?
Patients can be assured that the CustomVisTM PULZARTM Z1 carries the highest approvals from regulators and safety testing laboratories. These approvals include CE Mark, for Europe, Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration Approval for Australia, and global certifications for medical device safety from Testing and Certification Australia and the International Standards Organization. CustomVisTM also conducts clinical trials periodically, and these trials carry additional certifications such as human ethics committee approvals at the surgical centres, as well as any other necessary laser safety or patient safety assurances.
Grateful Patient Establishes Fund to Support Living Organ Donation | Piedmont Foundation
Home / About Piedmont Healthcare / Foundation and Giving / Donor Appreciation / Grateful Patient Establishes Fund to Support Living Organ Donation
Grateful Patient Establishes Fund to Support Living Organ Donation
Atlanta, Ga. (May 18, 2017) – At 58 years old, Ben Raney has had two kidney transplants resulting from an autoimmune condition he's battled for years. He knows first-hand the power of living organ donation, having received a kidney from a complete stranger as part of a paired exchange at Piedmont Atlanta Hospital.
The paired exchange began with an altruistic donor from Texas stepping forward to donate a kidney to someone in New Jersey. That person's paired donor, also in New Jersey, then donated a kidney, which was sent to Ben in Atlanta. Not long thereafter, Ben's wife Lisa donated her kidney to another patient at Piedmont Atlanta Hospital.
"I did it to help my husband and ended up helping another family in the process," Lisa Raney, whose recipient had a paired donor that went on to give a kidney to someone in Pennsylvania, said. The paired exchange came to an end when the Pennsylvania recipient's paired donor gave a kidney back to the hospital in Texas where the altruistic donor started it all. In all, five people received a lifesaving kidney transplant because of the paired exchange.
"Living donors and paired exchangesmake it possible for us to create a larger pool of good quality donors," said Miguel Tan, M.D., surgical director of the kidney transplant program at Piedmont. "Living kidney donation has, and will continue to, improve outcomes and access to transplantation by decreasing wait times, improving long-term outcomes and lowering the number of people on the deceased donor waiting list."
While the importance of living donation is established, estimates show only one-third of potential living donors and their intended recipients are compatible. A large number of patients have medically suitable and willing donors but cannot receive the organ donation due to incompatibilities like blood type and antibodies. That is where living organ donor coordinators, who manage everything from evaluation to matching donors and recipients, come in.
"Lisa's kidney donation helped save the lives of five people and now, with the couples' continued generosity, we're able to better support the living donor coordinators who make paired exchanges possible," Christopher Fowler, executive director of Piedmont Transplant Institute, said. "We are incredibly grateful for Ben and Lisa Raney, and we thank them for their support of Piedmont's living organ donor program."
The funds the couple has donated to Piedmont Healthcare Foundation will establish the Ben and Lisa Raney Living Donor Fund. As a not-for-profit organization, Piedmont relies on the generosity of others like Ben and Lisa Raney in order to offer many programs and advanced medical technology to the community. To support the program, visit https://donate.piedmont.org and select the Ben and Lisa Raney Living Donor Fund from the menu of options.
