About 40 million people in the United States suffer from chronic long-term sleep disorders and an additional 20 million people experience occasional sleep problems, according to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. The National Sleep Foundation estimates that 43.0% of Americans between the ages of 13 and 64 rarely or never get a good night's sleep on weeknights and 60% experience disruptions in their sleep every night or almost every night. A 2015 Drug Store News survey revealed that over 50.0% of consumers have used a sleep aid remedy in the last year; 84.0% said the remedy they used was an OTC rather than a prescription product.
With so much difficulty falling and staying asleep, consumers have many options to help them get a good night's rest. Many use OTC sleep aids, combination OTC pain relievers, and sleep aids, natural and herbal remedies, sleep gadgets such as monitor tracking apps, or even prescription drugs to help them sleep. There are many concerns about the dependency and side effects of prescription sleep aids and therefore, many consumers turn to OTC or natural sleep aids when they have occasional sleeplessness. However, these market segments are growing at very different rates. For example, the pain and sleep aid combination brands in 2016 saw sales up 2.2% while OTC sleep aids like Unisom, ZzzQuil, and Simply Sleep expanded 3.4% in the same year. However, natural and herbal sleep aids that contain melatonin or valerian had sales up 11.0% in 2016, as per Kline's Nonprescription Drugs USA and Natural OTCs studies.
Some examples of sleep devices include Neuro On Smart Sleep Mask Device (Inteliclinic), ActiGraph (ActiGraph), and Fatigue Science RediBand (Fatigue Science). While some of these devices promote better sleep, most of them are sleep monitoring devices that track sleep patterns. Neuro On Smart Sleep Mask Device (Inteliclinic) uses a light therapy that simulates natural sleeping situations. ActiGraph (ActiGraph) sleep monitoring smart watch helps track the sleep patterns of a person; it also provides various tips on the importance of healthy sleep. Fatigue Science RediBand (Fatigue Science) is a wristband that helps measure important sleep statistics. However, these devices are expensive compared to OTC sleep aids and are typically priced between $300 and $500. The growing popularity of fitness monitors and sleep monitors promotes sales of the category as consumers tracking their sleep patterns realize that they are not getting enough sleep. These consumers move to sleep aid products, driving the category's sales.
Buy online Ivermectin no RX - Trusted online Ivermectin no RX
"Buy on line ivermectin, antimicrobial resistance in developing countries".
By: O. Xardas, M.B.A., M.B.B.S., M.H.S.
UnitedHealthcare (2015) UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy Clinical Pharmacy Programs Enbrel (etanercept) infection ear purchase ivermectin with a mastercard. Pricing and reimbursement decisions are made by the Central Social Insurance Medical Council (Chuikyo) within the Ministry of Health infection 2 months after surgery cheap ivermectin 3 mg without prescription, Labour and Welfare antibiotics for uti or kidney infection buy ivermectin with amex. Pricing and reimbursement processes are closely connected and the majority of medicines are reimbursed, contingent on the successful outcome of pricing negotiations. The medicine is then listed on the National Health Insurance reimbursement list and can be used in the country. Medicines that are novel and for which there are no similar drugs are priced using a cost-based method where drug development and manufacturing, importation, sales and administrative costs, and profits are taken into account. With medicines for which there are similar drugs available in Japan, the cost of the daily dose of the comparator is used to establish a base price (similar efficacy pricing method), to which further premiums are added depending on the additional benefit that the new drug offers compared to the similar drug (see table below). The price is further adjusted following comparison with foreign prices for the same drug, or, if this is not available, for the comparator drug. In addition, medicines that are awarded innovation or utility premiums and that are approved in Japan before any other market are granted an additional 10% premium (Simon-Kucher, 2014). Some countries enact guidelines at the national level, while others control access at regional and local levels. National level restrictions usually outline appropriate step therapy requirements and the patient populations eligible for reimbursement, whereas regional and local levels specify or advocate for specific preferred brands. However, most physicians do not report suffering from major restrictions in their prescribing. Cashstrapped payers implement stricter budget limits to curb spending for psoriasis medications. Some countries have enacted physician incentives and disincentives to ensure the use of the most costeffective medicines, while other countries in less austere situations resort to passive monitoring. Some countries are contracting with manufacturers that offer significant discounts over their competitors. With increasing competition within each class, going forward, payers are likely to select preferred agents and exclude some products from formularies, necessitating steeper discounting to ensure regional formulary access. In some countries, restrictions occur at the national level, while in others, access levers are employed at regional and/or local levels. While physicians do not have quotas to fulfill, some need to abide by prescribing limits (Richtgroessen) or face audits from payers. Spanish payers also report contracts occurring at the local level in individual hospitals. Despite this, most physicians perceive access to medications as only somewhat restricted as they are able to prescribe the necessary medications, provided that patients have met the conditions of the additional limitations. For example, the reimbursement of Cosentyx [secukinumab; Novartis] published in October 2015 needs the failure of two other treatments, while the license says it can be used as soon as a systemic treatment is needed. So the wording is that outside these indications, the [additional medical benefit] is insufficient to be funded. In other words the specialists can prescribe it and the patient can buy it, but he needs to pay for it so in practice it never happens as the cost is very high. Although this is not a true restriction in most countries, it may impose barriers to access as physicians are more careful regarding prescribing costly medications. In more price-sensitive regions, hospitals and/or physicians are responsible for meeting the financial limits imposed by budget holders. Some payers have limits on physician prescribing or measures to institute more economical prescribing practices. How strictly such limits will be followed by physicians will largely depend on the interplay of incentives and disincentives that payers are able to use to enforce the rules. Payers who are cashstrapped or price-sensitive will look to quotas and budget limitations, ensuring disincentives and penalties are in place for physicians who do not adhere to the new rules. The region assigns a reimbursement to the hospital that is allowed after negotiating the budget with the director of the hospital, but let me stress, I am not asked to use better resources, ie I have 4. If there is a group of patients that need a very expensive biological drug, it is impossible not to use it. The only thing we can do, when there is competition, is to negotiate locally with the drug manufacturers, so as to obtain the highest possible discount.
Amnestic mild cognitive impairment: diagnostic outcomes and clinical prediction over a two-year time period antibiotic resistance malaysia order ivermectin no prescription. Making decisions about tube feeding for severely demented patients at the end of life: Clinical 11th antimicrobial workshop buy ivermectin cheap online, legal infection throughout body discount ivermectin 3 mg otc, and ethical considerations. Hormone replacement therapy to maintain cognitive function in women with dementia. Dementia care: critical interactions among primary care physicians, patients and caregivers. Personality counts for a lot: predictors of mental and physical health of spouse caregivers in two disease groups. Improvement of agitation and anxiety in demented patients a er psychoeducative group intervention with their caregivers. Working with American Indian families: Collaboration with families for the care of older American Indians with memory loss. Nonpharmacological interventions for wandering of people with dementia in the domestic setting. A sociocultural stress and coping model for mental health outcomes among African American caregivers in Southern California. Naturalistic study of intramuscular ziprasidone versus conventional agents in agitated elderly patients: retrospective ndings from a psychiatric emergency service. Anticonvulsants for the treatment of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia: a literature review. Psychosocial intervention for individuals with dementia: An integration of theory, therapy, and a clinical understanding of dementia. E ective electroconvulsive therapy in a -year-old dementia patient with psychotic feature. Assessing self-maintenance: Activities of daily living, mobility, and instrumental activities of daily living. Systematic review of psychological approaches to the management of neuropsychiatric symptoms of dementia. Evidence-based psychological treatments for disruptive behaviors in individuals with dementia. Comparison of risperidone and placebo for psychosis and behavioral disturbances associated with dementia: A randomized, double-blind trial. Position statement of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry regarding principles of care for patients with dementia resulting from Alzheimer disease. Outcomes of family involvement in care intervention for caregivers of individuals with dementia. Nonpharmacologic management of agitated behaviors in persons with Alzheimer Disease and other chronic dementing conditions. Comparison of rapidly acting intramuscular olanzapine, lorazepam, and placebo: a double-blind, randomized study in acutely agitated patients with dementia. Meta-analysis: high-dosage vitamin E supplementation may increase all-cause mortality. Aripiprazole for the treatment of psychoses in institutionalized patients with Alzheimer dementia: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled assessment of three xed doses. Improving caregiver well-being delays nursing home placement of patients with Alzheimer disease. A conceptual model and assessment template for capacity evaluation in adult guardianship. Cognitive functioning and impairment among rural elderly Hispanic and non-Hispanic whites as assessed by the MiniMental State Examination. Dementia: supporting people with dementia and their carers in health and social care. Ethnic di erences in stressors, resources, and psychological outcomes of family caregiving: A meta-analysis. Comparison of citalopram, perphenazine, and placebo for the acute treatment of psychosis and behavioral disturbances in hospitalized, demented patients. A double-blind comparison of citalopram and risperidone for the treatment of behavioral and psychotic symptoms associated with dementia. Current pharmacologic treatment of dementia: A clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians and the American Academy of Family Physicians.
The child is closely observed by nursing staff and physicians antibiotic ladder order generic ivermectin on line, and interventions for hypoglycemia antibiotics gain weight buy online ivermectin, acidosis infection after miscarriage order ivermectin 3mg otc, dehydration, vomiting, weight loss, or feeding intolerances can be instituted in a timely fashion to minimize any complications. Although seizures more often improve during the admission they can worsen from the stress of switching metabolic substrate. Some dietary treatment programs offer separate education classes to assist the families in their decision to try dietary therapies. These include inborn errors of metabolism related to carnitine (mitochondrial transport), beta oxidation defects, pyruvate carboxylase deficiencies, and porphyria (which requires a high-carbohydrate diet). In the process of breaking down fat, ketone bodies are produced and transported into our central nervous system for direct use in energy production or indirectly affecting a myriad of metabolic pathways leading to the "miracle of seizure reduction" (Lutas and Yellen, 2013). Ketone bodies also suppress our appetite and it is often difficult to get a lethargic, acidotic, dehydrated child to eat a 90% fat meal without vomiting. Many centers have used a "kinder, gentler, gradual" advancement without fast initiation. They instead used the gradual caloric advancement approach of the 4:1 ratio and reported similar success in seizure reduction at 3 months in 41 patients compared with 81 historical fasting controls. Both protocols achieved strong ketosis by the 5th day discharge, the gradual protocol about 1 day later than the fasting. Side effects were reduced by about twothirds, and interventions were significantly fewer in the gradual protocol, with less weight loss, mild and severe hypoglycemia, dehydration, acidosis, need for bicarbonate and intravenous fluid administration. Vomiting was not quantified but rather reported as present or not, and occurred in both groups. Additional days needed in the hospital were also reduced in the gradual group compared with the fasting group, with a dropout rate of 4% compared with 8% in the fasting group (very low, overall) (Bergqvist et al. With this data in hand many centers stopped the fasting process for their routine admission and use it only when speed of achieving ketosis is of the essence, as with a child in status epilepticus (Cobo et al. The gradual initiation protocol has been modified, acid oxidation are rare, screening is not infallible. We have picked up a handful of children with beta-oxidation defects during admission in the past 20 years. The amount of education provided is limited and it requires that the family live near the epilepsy center to minimize time traveling. However, centers that use out-patient initiation often have a higher dropout rate before the 3-month mark when effectiveness is typically determined, perhaps due to the above factors (Levy et al. In the initial protocols from the 1920 to the 1930s fasting was commonly extended until 10% of body weight was lost (Livingston, 1951; Wilder, 1921). It is described in the Bible (Mark 9:29), and was used in the early 1900s in a cyclic fashion (for several weeks at a time) as treatments for patients with epilepsy (Wheless, 2008). Some centers have reported higher overall seizure reduction with the formula-fed children, perhaps due to lower chance of noncompliance (Kossoff et al. The problem with not modeling a home situation during the admission is that families are discharged having had no experience or assistance cooking 90% fat meals that are palatable and have to attempt this by themselves, be it with the support of websites, and other keto-coaches once home. Maintenance Calories are important to a growing child, whose needs are continuously changing during infancy and childhood. Children with epilepsy are less active than healthy children and those who have additional motor disabilities may need even fewer calories (Wong and Wirrell, 2006). Further, although the children gained weight as calories were adjusted, this weight gain came in the form of a change in body composition and relative increase in fat mass. Almost all efficacy trials related to dietary therapies determine initial effectiveness at 3 months. This is likely due to comparisons with anticonvulsive drug trials, where a 3-month design is standard practice (Sachdeo, 2007; Schmidt et al.
Institutions which have a methadone license must store bulk stock methadone in a separate safe from that used to antimicrobial drug resistance generic 3mg ivermectin with visa store other controlled substances antibiotic used for bronchitis buy ivermectin 3mg lowest price. Methadone ordered under this license may only be used for detoxification purposes antibiotics for acne rosacea buy generic ivermectin 3mg online. All records pertaining to purchasing, prescribing, and administering must be stored separate from other controlled substance records. If the institution chooses to maintain a methadone license the Chief Pharmacist will be responsible for the accreditation process. The medication order may not be extended or renewed for that individual under any circumstances. This 72 hour window allows for rapid tapering when an inmate coming into the institution has been maintained on methadone in the community. In this instance, the main stock of methadone may be stored with other controlled substances. All institutions which do not have a methadone license and could conceivably receive a pregnant female on methadone will have a contingency plan, such as this, in place. Any pregnant female arriving at the institution on methadone needs to be maintained on methadone until the baby is delivered. Bureau physicians may prescribe methadone for inmates with severe pain for an extended period. The procedures for prescribing methadone for pain are the same as those described in 9. When prescribed for severe pain, methadone may be purchased without a methadone license. Institutions with a methadone license are not allowed to order methadone used for pain under the methadone detoxification license. An adequate supply of urgent care drugs will be maintained in the pharmacy and in designated areas. The Chief Pharmacist is responsible for all medications located in the urgent care carts and kits, and for the inspection procedures used. The procurement of non-formulary medications or the procurement of formulary medications used outside of formulary restrictions is considered an unauthorized procurement. Revisions or changes from the previous year are highlighted in Yellow throughout the document. Periodically, medications are reassessed and extensively reviewed for inclusion, exclusion, or restrictions in the formulary as applicable per current evidence-based practices and security concerns. It is expected that nonformulary use criteria will be thoroughly addressed point by point and that all non-formulary justifications/criteria are met. Institution Chief Pharmacists are expected to review all medication orders for formulary compliance. This will include reviewing all non-formulary requests for completeness and appropriate justification, and, if applicable, commenting on information provided by the prescriber regarding non-formulary use criteria. The pharmacist is also expected to provide pertinent information regarding patient compliance for formulary agents, drug cost information, and other comments as they pertain to the request. All such orders/recommendations are still subject to the non-formulary approval process. It is expected that all institution inventories and ordering procedures will be conducive to acceptable inventory practices. This may be prompted by consistent failure of the institution staff to appropriately initiate or complete all elements of the non-formulary request, particularly the required supporting documentation. Continuity of Care Provision: There are times when inmates are processed into a facility after normal working hours, weekends, and holidays. This four day allowance is to only be utilized for urgent continuity of care purposes, and not for initiating routine/non-emergency non-formulary medications without appropriate approval. This provision is not a substitute for adequate follow up, monitoring, and initiation of non-formulary medications for patients maintained within the facility for chronic ongoing conditions.
Buy cheap ivermectin 3mg on-line. CDC Vital Signs: Stop the Spread of Antibiotic Resistance (Short).
Atypical Panic Attack Symptoms | Mind Health
Atypical Panic Attack Symptoms
The basic feature of Panic Disorder is recurrent attacks of severe anxiety (see symptoms below), which is not restricted to any particular situation or set of. Panic Disorder sufferers are also more likely to have other medical conditions at the same time such as irritable bowel syndrome, asthma, migraine and 'atypical chest.
Panic disorder and agoraphobia are two separate psychiatric disorders that often occur together. Panic disorder is characterized by recurrent and sometimes unexpected panic attacks. A panic at- tack, or "fight or flight" response, is a sudden rush of intense anx- iety with symptoms such as rapid heart rate, difficulty breathing,
She says her heart races, her palms get sweay, she can't breathe, and she feels lightheaded. Between episodes, she admits to a strong fear of another attack occurring, and she is considering taking time off from work because of them. Overview. Definition. recurrent panic attacks. symptoms include. intense fear of dying and.
Recent atypical panic attacks. I have a few statements regarding specific symptoms I experience as a result of panic attacks. Let me start by affirming that said.
those are warning signs that you may be having a heart attack." Chest and arm pain are common for men. The warning signs for women, however, are often different. "In women, the symptoms tend to be more atypical, like.
Although 44% (47/108) of the panic disorder patients had a prior documented history of coronary artery disease (CAD), 80% had atypical or nonanginal chest pain. Karlson, BW, Herlitz, J, Pettersson, P, Ekvall, H-E, and Hjalmarson, Å. Patients admitted to the emergency room with symptoms indicative of acute myocardial.
Atypical panic attacks. Posted 26 September 2016 at 12:43. I might feel fine one moment and the symptoms come on within a very short time.
Patients with atypical depression have higher rates of comorbid panic disorder, social phobia, bipolar II disorder, and bulimia than do those with typical depression. Family members of patients with atypical depression are more likely to have atypical features during a depressive episode than are family members of patients.
Agoraphobia is the specific anxiety about being in a place or situation where escape is difficult or embarrassing or where help may be unavailable. Agoraphobia is strongly linked with panic disorder and is often precipitated by the fear of having a panic attack.
Find Out More About Symptom Of Panic Attack, Visit Us Now for Details.
What you can learn from 36-year-old woman's heart attack – She buckled under the burning pain and Curt suggested it might be a panic attack. Not prone to anxiety. paramedics and emergency room nurses to better recognize atypical heart attack symptoms as they respond to 911 calls and.
Medication For Mental Anxiety Mar 18, 2015. Although a primary health care provider can technically prescribe anti-anxiety meds, a psychiatrist is really the person who has the most thorough training in the treatment of mental health needs. Maybe you're already seeing a counselor, in which case you can ask her/him for a referral to a psychiatrist. These are the
Women need to be on lookout for different symptoms of heart attack – "Heart disease in women is generally under-recognized, mainly because the symptoms are very atypical." Like Caroline Ollis, many women don't have the classic crushing chest pain associated with a heart attack. with a sense of panic.
Anxiety And Depression How To Cope May 1, 2017. This common combination can be debilitating. Here's what you can do to tackle all three issues. This is a guest post by Kristi from IntelligentMother.com. Pregnancy should be a happy and exciting time in a woman's life. However, this is not always the case for some women as it can be a
November is Lung Cancer Awareness Month - Diagnostic Imaging Services
Latest News November is Lung Cancer Awareness Month
"The idea behind this month and this Coalition is to unite all of the people and organizations working to improve patient outcomes through unified objectives," said Dr. Fred Hirsch, CEO of the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC), which leads the Coalition. "We have made great progress in recent years, but there is much more to accomplish – and we are stronger together than we are individually."
"We can reduce lung cancer mortality by 20 percent with a full implementation of lung cancer screening guidelines," noted Dr. Hirsch.
Flu Activity Increasing In Our Region - Orcas Issues: News & Views
← Orcas Center Welcomes The Good Lovelies Back to Center Stage
Letter to Editor | Thank you as Orcas Family Health Continues Financial Drive →
Flu activity and hospital visits for flu-like symptoms are rapidly increasing in Washington. "While flu cases are on the rise in San Juan County, we are not currently seeing the levels reported in the state and region," says Dr. Frank James, Health Officer for San Juan County. "However, we can reasonably expect our county to begin seeing an increase in flu cases now that flu is active in the region and children are returning to school. The influenza vaccine this year appears to be significantly less effective, especially against the most common circulating virus; however vaccination is still one important way to protect against infection – especially for those with elevated risk of complications, hospitalization, and death."
Cover your cough, wash your hands and stay home from school or work when you are sick with cough and fever.
Adrenal stem cell niches are located between adrenal and renal capsules | Journal of Pediatric and Neonatal Individualized Medicine (JPNIM)
Adrenal stem cell niches are located between adrenal and renal capsules
https://doi.org/10.7363/050214
Marco Angiolucci+−
Department of Surgical Sciences, NICU, Neonatal Pathology, Puericulture Institute and Neonatal Section, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy
Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy
adrenal gland stem cell niches
adrenal gland morphogenesis
Obinu, E., Locci, G., Gerosa, C., Fanos, V., Vinci, L., Faa, G., Ambu, R., Loddo, C., Coni, E., Angiolucci, M., Fanni, C., & Fanni, D. (2016). Adrenal stem cell niches are located between adrenal and renal capsules. Journal of Pediatric and Neonatal Individualized Medicine (JPNIM), 5(2), e050214. https://doi.org/10.7363/050214
The human adrenal glands arise around the 4th week of gestation and during the intrauterine life produce many substances that are responsible for the maintenance of fetal homeostasis and organ maturation. Stem cell niches represent the microenvironment suitable for life and replication of adrenal stem cells.
Adrenal gland stem cells have the capacity to self-renew and generate functional differentiated daughter cells that replenish lost cells. Morphologically the adrenal stem cells appeared as small, polymorphic cells, closed together, with basophilic nucleus, located between adrenal and renal capsules. This study was mainly based on a morphological and immunohistochemical approach, particularly on characterization and localization of the multiple stem/progenitor cells that contribute to the development of the human adrenal gland.
Ilias Chatziioannidis, George Mitsiakos, Fotis Vouzas, Focusing on patient safety in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit environment , Journal of Pediatric and Neonatal Individualized Medicine (JPNIM): Vol. 6 No. 1 (2017): April 2017
Antidepressants: Who Needs Them? - ABC News
Antidepressants: Who Needs Them?
A woman who had been depressed for 20 years with frequent thoughts of suicide started Prozac, and, 10 days later, said "it felt like a switch was flipped. I felt normal for the first time."
Another woman had sunk into depression after the birth of a child, and had begun to think she was a bad mother, as she could not enjoy her baby. She started the antidepressant Remeron, and within two weeks was feeling cheerful and spirited again.
Antidepressants are truly miracle drugs for some patients.
Last week, a number of major media outlets highlighted a 2004 report from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). The report showed that antidepressants were the most prescribed medication class, surpassing nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and anti-asthmatics.
Should this surprise us? Are antidepressants being overused?
Fifty years ago, there were no antidepressant medications. In 1957, Roland Kuhn in Switzerland reported that the chemical N-(gamma-dimethlaminopropyl)-iminodibenzylhydrochloride, which came to be called imipramine, had a striking effect on patients with depression.
"They again become interested in things, are able to enjoy themselves, despondency gives way to a desire to undertake something, despair gives place to renewed hope in the future," he wrote.
In the same year, iproniazid, a tuberculosis (TB) drug was reported to lift the moods of some TB patients who were depressed. These two medications were the first of the tricyclic and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressants, which were widely prescribed for the next 30 years.
But these medications have important side effects that made physicians cautious about their use. The MAOI antidepressants can cause dangerous, even lethal, changes in blood pressure in patients who consume foods such as aged cheeses, drinks such as red wine, or medications such as other antidepressants that interact with the MAOIs.
Similarly, the tricyclic antidepressants can be lethal if used in excessive amounts as happens when patients intentionally take an overdose, which depressed patients sometimes do.
By the 1980s, scientists had some idea about how antidepressants work. Brain chemicals called neurotransmitters seemed to play a role.
Two of them in particular, norepinephrine and serotonin, were decreased in the brain in depression, and increased in response to antidepressants. Scientists at Eli Lilly and Company developed a drug that could specifically increase serotonin levels in the brain, and Prozac, the first serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor, or SSRI, was born.
Prozac was free of the dangerous side effects of the MAOI and tricyclic antidepressants, and thus it could be prescribed more liberally by physicians, including those without psychiatric expertise, such as internists, obstetrician/gynecologists, and family practitioners.
The use of antidepressant medications has risen dramatically since that time. One study showed that the use of SSRIs and other newer antidepressants increased by 26 percent every year between 1989 and 2000 in primary care.
Whereas antidepressants were prescribed in 6.3 million visits in 1989, they were prescribed in 20.5 million visits in 2000.
Why Americans Need Antidepressants
Thus, answering the questions posed above requires us to understand the true problem of depression, and how these medicines can help.
First, it is important to understand that major depression (or clinical depression) is a very common illness, affecting 7 percent of Americans in any given year.
Second, antidepressants are effective not only for depression, but also for anxiety disorders, which are common as well, and for other problems such as insomnia, chronic pain and migraine headaches.
Some people have argued that using antidepressants in the setting of depression is not a good idea because these only paper over the "real" problems in people's lives. In fact, depression is a "real" disease and needs to be treated directly.
Certainly, people with depression do often have issues that need to be dealt with, such as problems in their marriage, or difficulties in the workplace.
But trying to fix these without first treating the depression with medication is like trying to fill the empty bathtub without first replacing the faulty drain stopper. One's efforts are likely to be energy down the drain. Once the depression is treated, life's challenges can be tackled with more confidence and competence.
Antidepressant Fears: a Growing Problem?
In the last three years, the number of antidepressant prescriptions written for children and adolescents has significantly decreased.
This has occurred largely in light of concerns from the Food and Drug Administration about potential suicidal behavior induced by antidepressants, particularly of the SSRI type.
A "black box" warning was placed on all antidepressants in 2004 to alert patients below age 18 to these concerns, and this past May an order was issued to extend the warning to include patients age 18-24.
Additional reductions in prescriptions could follow. This would be unfortunate, because although there might be a transient increase in suicidal risk associated with emerging from deep depression and becoming energized enough to act on suicidal thoughts, the far greater risk lies in remaining untreated.
While no treatment in medicine is without its risks and drawbacks, we use those that are likely to do more good than ill. With antidepressants, we sometimes get miracles, and often get substantial improvement.
Treatment is like brilliant sun for someone who has been under a dark cloud. Beautiful and warm -- but watch out for sunburn.
Dr. James Potash is an Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Co-Director of the Mood Disorders Program (http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/moods) at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore, Maryland. He has no financial relationships with any pharmaceutical companies. If you have questions or comments, please email at moods@jhu.edu. To participate in our studies, call 1-877-MOODS-JH.
Measuring Brand Health: From Survey Data to Social Media Data – Student Theses – Higher School of Economics National Research University
Measuring Brand Health: From Survey Data to Social Media Data
Student: Elizaveta Simokhina
Brand health is one of the key concepts in any brand's performance, since regular brand health tracking helps to understand how market users perceive the brand, what the weaknesses and strengths of the brand are, and what steps can be taken to strengthen its position in the market. Today there are a wide range of methods to measure the brand health: for example, consumer surveys, measuring brand health through market indicators of sales volume, or recently appeared methods for assessing brand health through online indicators (web traffic, the number of visits to brand pages, etc.). The focus of this study is on the methods of measuring the brand health through online indicators; in the situation of the current mass popularity of social networks, social media is a huge platform with consumers of various brands, which cannot be ignored when measuring the effectiveness of the brand. The goal of this study was to develop a methodology for measuring brand health based on data from social media. The empirical object of the study was the brand "Tinkoff Bank", which is fully focused on remote bank service. To do this, we used one of the methods of data mining - web scraping and collected reviews about the brand "Tinkoff Bank" from three social media: the portal Banks.ru, the Google Play mobile app store and its equivalent App Store. Then using the topic modeling algorithm LDA (Latent Dirichlet Allocation), we analyzed the received text reviews for a finite number of interpreted topics and estimated the prevalence of each topic in the total number of comments in the selected month.
HEALTH | Prying on patient records | Ellis WhittamHEALTH | Prying on patient records
HEALTH | Prying on patient records
Curiosity can be a great thing. However, it can get the better of some people.
This can enter into dangerous territory.
Staff in GP surgeries may think they are not doing anything that bad when they snoop on the records of family, friends, neighbours or acquaintances, but it can bring about potentially serious consequences.
Just last year, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) reported how a former nurse at Southport and Ormskirk Hospital NHS had inappropriately accessed patients' medical records without permission. She admitted unlawfully obtaining and disclosing personal data and was fined and ordered to pay costs and a victim surcharge.
For GP surgeries, this type of behaviour damages the relationship of trust and confidentiality between patients and the NHS. It needs to be avoided at all costs and dealt with quickly when it does happen.
How can employers prevent employees prying on patient records?
From a HR and Employment Law perspective, the first thing to do is make sure employees know about your data protection policy. Make sure they know their responsibilities and the consequences if they fall short.
In your policy, you should reserve the right to:
Look at the contents of all incoming and outgoing work emails
Browse the history of the web pages using work devices
Have a call recording system in place (for example, for training, quality or service delivery purposes).
This may put employees off accessing and using data and also help you investigate matters if you suspect a breach.
Employees are under an implied duty of fidelity. This means that if an employee does use or disclose confidential information without your permission, it could be considered to be gross misconduct and pave the way for summary dismissal. As always, look to an Employment Law company to make sure you are on the right side of the law when dismissing.
If you notice someone covertly scanning or photocopying data or copying files onto an external drive, you can apply for an injunction to secure and recover the data that has been stolen.
Additionally, you can also have a policy outlining rules about accessing patient records, highlighting that the employee cannot access the records of relatives. You may also decide to include in the policy that employees should declare if relatives are patients so you can be alert to any unusual activity on those records.
What can employers do if there has been a breach?
The EU General Data Protection Regulations came into force on 25th May 2018, bringing about key changes to data protection rules. In cases of data breaches, for example unauthorised access to personal data which is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, businesses must notify the ICO without undue delay and where possible no later than 72 hours after the breach.
The ICO guidance states that that "All health service organisations in England must now use the Data Security and Protection Incident Reporting tool (the incident reporting tool for the NHS in England). This will report SIRIs (Serious Incident Requiring Investigation) to the NHS Digital, Department of Health, ICO and other regulators."
To discuss your data protection obligations in more depth, contact the ICO helpline.
Read through the ICO's resources for the health sector.
If you do not have a data protection policy, contact your Employment Law Expert who can draft one for you.
Social Protection Statistics 2000 - 2007 | National statistical institute
Published at: 11.12.2009 - 10:56
European System of Integrated Social Protection Statistics (ESSPROS) is a specific instrument for statistical monitoring of the social protection in EU member states. System main purpose is to ensure exhaustive, realistic and consistent measurement of social protection in member states, covering the social transfers and their financing.
Implementation of the European system of Integrated Statistic on Social Protection in Bulgaria started in 2006. The legal bases are Regulation (EC) No 485/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the ESSPROS; Commission Regulation (EC) No 1322/2007 of 12 November 2007 implementing Regulation (EC) No 485/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the ESSPROS as regards the appropriate formats for transmission, results to be transmitted and criteria for measuring quality for the ESSPROS core system and the module on pension beneficiaries; Commission Regulation (EC) No 10/2008 of 8 January 2008 implementing Regulation (EC) No 485/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the ESSPROS as regards the definitions, detailed classifications and updating of the rules for dissemination for the ESSPROS core system and the module on pension beneficiaries
European System of Integrated Social Protection Statistics (ESSPROS) consists of:
• Core system - includes data on social protection expenditures, receipts and benefits by function - Sickness/Health care; Disability; Old age; Survivors; Family/children; Unemployment; Housing; Social exclusion not else-where classified;
• Module on pension beneficiaries - includes data on total pension beneficiaries by schemes, by pension categories (disability pension; early retirement benefit due to reduced capacity to work, old-age pension; anticipated old-age pension; partial pension; survivors' pension, early retirement due to labour market reasons).
• ESSPROS data on receipts and expenditures by functions for the period 2000 - 2007 (Core system);
• ESSPROS data on number of pension beneficiaries for the period 2000 - 2007 (Module on pension beneficiaries);
• ESSPROS qualitative information by schemes and benefits.
The publication is addressed to a wide range of users - administrations and institutions that develop and implement economic and social policy of Bulgaria, as well as non-governmental organizations and all society circles that work actively in this field.
