CIENCIASMEDICASNEWS: Consumer Updates > FDA's MedWatch Safety Alerts: March 2013
Consumer Updates > FDA's MedWatch Safety Alerts: March 2013
FDA's MedWatch Safety Alerts: March 2013
Risk of Death From Irregular Heart Rhythms With Zithromax, Zmax
Recall: Avastin Syringes Due to Serious Eye Infections, Other Sterile Products
Recall: Sterile Compounded Products From Pallimed Pharmacy
Recall: Night Bullet 'Dietary Supplement'
The antibiotic azithromycin (Zithromax or Zmax) can cause abnormal changes in the electrical activity of the heart that may lead to a potentially fatal irregular heart rhythm. At particular risk are individuals with known risk factors, such as:
a slower than normal heart rate,
use of certain drugs prescribed to treat arrhythmias (abnormal heart rhythms), or
existing QT interval prolongation (a long interval that occurs between the Q and T waves on an electrocardiogram).
The azithromycin drug labels have been updated to strengthen the Warnings and Precautions section with this information.
The warning is a result of FDA's review of several studies, including one by medical researchers (www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1003833 ) that compared the risk of death related to the heart or blood vessels (cardiovascular death) in patients treated with different antibacterial drugs and no antibacterial drug. The study reported an increase in cardiovascular deaths, and in the risk of death from any cause, in people treated with a five-day course of azithromycin compared to those treated with amoxicillin, ciprofloxacin (Cipro) or no drug. The risk of cardiovascular death associated with the antibiotic levofloxacin was similar to that related to azithromycin.
Get immediate care if you experience an irregular heartbeat, shortness of breath, dizziness or fainting while taking azithromycin. Report any other side effects to your health care professional.
Avastin (bevacizumab) unit dose syringes were recalled on March 18, 2013, due to reports of five serious eye infections after an ophthalmologist (eye doctor) administered the drug into the eyes of patients to treat macular degeneration.
Avastin, approved by FDA as a cancer drug, is not approved to treat macular degeneration.
The drug was repackaged into individual single-use syringes from manufactured vials labeled as sterile. The repackaging company, Clinical Specialties Compounding Pharmacy (CSCP) of Augusta, Ga., distributed the Avastin syringes to doctors' offices in Georgia, Louisiana, South Carolina and Indiana from December 18, 2012, to March 18, 2013. (Traditional compounding is a practice in which a licensed pharmacist combines, mixes or alters ingredients in response to a prescription to create a medication tailored to the medical needs of an individual patient.)
Risk: The eye infections, called endophthalmitis, occur inside the eyeball and can lead to permanent loss of vision.
The recall was expanded on March 20, 2013, to include all sterile products produced and distributed nationwide by CSCP between Oct. 19, 2012, and March 19, 2013, because FDA found practices at the pharmacy that cannot ensure the sterility of its products. Many different types of products are recalled, including eye drops, hormones, antibiotics and cancer drugs.
Call your health care professional if you have experienced any problems after receiving Avastin in your eye(s), such as decreased vision, pain, redness or swelling of the eyelids.
Call your health care professional if you have received any product distributed by CSCP.
If you have questions about this recall, contact CSCP by telephone at 866-880-1915 Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET, or by e-mail at clinicalrx@bellsouth.net.
All sterile compounded products dispensed by Pallimed Pharmacy of Woburn, Mass., since January 1, 2013, have been recalled. Recent inspections conducted by FDA and the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy found visible particles in vials of several different sterile compounded products.
The products have a wide range of uses, including treatment of erectile dysfunction, testosterone replacement therapy, vitamin injections and eye preparations. All products were packaged in glass vials and distributed to patients or physicians' offices through March 22, 2013, in some or all of the following states: California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia and Wisconsin.
Risk: Foreign particles have the potential to damage or obstruct blood vessels, which could cause emboli (blood clots or other blockages), allergic reactions or other harmful responses to the foreign material.
Stop using the recalled products. All users who received any of the recalled products have been or will be notified of the recall.
To return a recalled product, request assistance or report complaints, contact Pallimed by telephone at 781-937-3344 Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. or from its website at www.pallimed.com .
List of Recalled Products from Pallimed Pharmacy
Pallimed Solutions, Inc. Sterile Compound Products: Recall - Visible Particulates Observed
Night Bullet, marketed as a dietary supplement for male enhancement, has been recalled because FDA tests found trace amounts of compounds of a drug that is not listed on the label. The drug, sildenafil, is an active ingredient in an FDA-approved prescription drug used to treat erectile dysfunction, making Night Bullet an unapproved drug.
The product lot being recalled is B43N032, UPC code 018505122233, expiration date 10/2015. The recalled products are capsules packaged in one-count blister packs. Night Bullet was sold nationwide between October 2012 and March 2013 to wholesalers, and samples were provided at trade shows.
Immediately stop using Night Bullet.
Contact your health care professional if you have experienced any problems that may be related to taking this product. Signs of low blood pressure include dizziness, nausea, fainting, unusual thirst, blurred vision and fatigue. Sildenafil may also cause such side effects as headaches and flushing.
Return the product to the place of purchase or directly to Green Planet Inc. Contact the Company at 877-621-2048 Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. PT for instructions on the return and refund process.
Photos of Night Bullet label
In February 2013, FDA required safety labeling changes to be made to 35 drugs, including several cholesterol-lowering drugs, antidepressants, cancer drugs and ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitors to treat high blood pressure.
In general, changes were made to the prescribing information and, in some cases, to the patient package inserts that come with many prescription medicines to warn about potential harmful reactions, tell who shouldn't take the drug, or give other safety information.
A Cox model is a well-recognised statistical technique for exploring the relationship between the survival of a patient and several explanatory variables.
Survival analysis is concerned with studying the time between entry to a study and a subsequent event (such as death). Censored survival times occur if the event of interest does not occur for a patient during the study period.
A Cox model provides an estimate of the treatment effect on survival after adjustment for other explanatory variables. It allows us to estimate the hazard (or risk) of death, or other event of interest, for individuals, given their prognostic variables.
Even if the treatment groups are similar with respect to the variables known to effect survival, using the Cox model with these prognostic variables may produce a more precise estimate of the treatment effect (for example, by narrowing the confidence interval).
Interpreting a Cox model involves examining the coefficients for each explanatory variable. A positive regression coefficient for an explanatory variable means that the hazard is higher, and thus the prognosis worse, for higher values. Conversely, a negative regression coefficient implies a better prognosis for patients with higher values
Mesothelioma Survival Rates 2022 in United States
February 28, 2022 February 26, 2022 by UpdatesOfMaharashtra.Com
Mesothelioma survival rates are covered in this article. Mesothelioma is a tumour of the tissue that lines the lungs, stomach, heart and other organs. Health, mesothelioma survival rate without treatment, pleural mesothelioma survival rate, stage 3 mesothelioma survival rates, mesothelioma life expectancy with treatment, stage 1 mesothelioma survival rate
Threatening mesothelioma is a malignant growth of the slender tissue (mesothelium) that lines the lung, chest divider, and midsection. (Mesothelioma Survival Rates 2022) The significant gamble factor for mesothelioma is asbestos openness. Investigate the connections on this page to look further into harmful mesothelioma treatment and clinical preliminaries.
Asbestos openness is the fundamental driver of pleural mesothelioma. (Mesothelioma Survival Rates 2022) Around 8 out of 10 individuals with mesothelioma have been presented to asbestos. (mesothelioma survival rate without treatment) At the point when asbestos filaments are taken in, they travel to the closures of little air entries and arrive at the pleura, where they can cause aggravation and scarring.
Mesothelioma is a sort of disease that creates from the flimsy layer of tissue that covers large numbers of the inside organs (known as the mesothelium). The most widely recognized region impacted is the covering of the lungs and chest divider. Less ordinarily the covering of the mid-region and seldom the sac encompassing the heart, or the sac encompassing the testis might be impacted. (stage 3 mesothelioma survival rates) Signs and indications of mesothelioma might incorporate windedness because of liquid around the lung, an enlarged midsection, chest divider torment, hack, feeling tired, and weight reduction. These side effects ordinarily come on leisurely.
Mesothelioma Cell Type (Tumor Histology)
A general endurance rate contrasts individuals and a similar sort and phase of threatening pleural mesothelioma (MPM) to individuals in the general populace. (Mesothelioma Survival Rates 2022) By and large, around 30% as possible as individuals who don't have that malignant growth to live for something like 5 years subsequent to being analyzed.
The mesothelioma cell type, or growth histology, impacts patient endurance. The malignant growth has three essential cell types: Epithelioid, sarcomatoid and biphasic.
The most widely recognized cell type is epithelioid, which is additionally the most un-forceful. It answers best to treatment. Middle endurance for patients with this cell type is 12 to two years.
Sarcomatoid mesothelioma is the most forceful cell type. Patients with this conclusion have a middle endurance of six to eight months.
Biphasic growths have epithelioid and sarcomatoid highlights. More epithelial cells mean a superior guess for mesothelioma patients. Assuming the growth is for the most part sarcomatoid cells, future is diminished. Patients with a biphasic cell analysis have a middle endurance of around 13 months.
Dangerous mesothelioma is an illness wherein threatening (disease) cells structure in the covering of the chest or midsection.
Being presented to asbestos can influence the gamble of dangerous mesothelioma.
Signs and indications of threatening mesothelioma incorporate windedness and torment under the rib confine.
Tests that analyze within the chest and mid-region are utilized to analyze threatening mesothelioma.
Certain variables influence forecast (chance of recuperation) and treatment choices.
Mesothelioma is an infection where threatening (malignant growth) cells structure in the dainty layer of tissue that covers organs in the chest or mid-region.
Therapy with radiation treatment expands the gamble of youth mesothelioma.
Signs and side effects of mesothelioma incorporate difficulty breathing and torment in the chest or mid-region.
Online therapy, reimbursement through care-performance model - Psylaris
When you call on mental health care for one or more treatments or a complete treatment programme, reimbursement usually takes place from the health insurance company. Everyone is insured via the basic insurance. The government determines which mental healthcare treatments are eligible for reimbursement under the basic insurance. How the reimbursement of a certain GGZ treatment is carried out is laid down in the care performance model.
What is the care performance model?
Clients who make use of regular mental healthcare treatment will not have much to do with the care-performance model. In the care-performance model, it is agreed how the practitioner bills for the GGZ treatment. The only thing a client might notice about the care-performance model is the itemised bill sent by the practitioner, but usually this is sent directly to the healthcare insurer.
The care performances in the care performance model
The basis of the healthcare performance model, are the healthcare performances. No two treatments are the same and treatments can look different. A treatment can be a consultation with a therapist, but also an admission for several days and nights to a clinic. One treatment costs more time and therefore more money than another mental healthcare treatment. Each treatment is referred to as a care service. The care services are listed on the invoice and are linked to a rate, so that the healthcare insurer knows what it must reimburse.
On an invoice you will find some standard common care services, such as consultations (physical & online), group consultations or days of stay in the clinic. Additional services are subject to 'surcharges', such as travel expenses incurred by the practitioner or an interpreter.
For a single consultation, the healthcare provider will be able to tell you the rate directly. But in almost all cases, this is not the case. Especially in mental healthcare, you have to follow a course of several long or short treatments, an admission or online consultations. That is why the declaration by the care provider will sometimes consist of many different care services. The cost of each part of the treatment will then become clear in any case. This way you can make a rough estimate of the costs of the total treatment in advance.
How is the level of tariffs determined?
For each care service, maximum rates apply, which are determined by the government. Healthcare providers have a certain amount of freedom to determine the rates themselves, but only up to the maximum rate set by the government. Sometimes certain care services are higher or lower than other comparable care services. This is because there are various factors that are taken into account. One example is the profession, such as psychologist or GGZ nurse. The type of consultation, the length and the location of the consultation also influence the rate.
Will online therapy be reimbursed?
Online therapy is becoming more and more common. Online therapy is a huge asset to the GGZ. Psylaris has published tools for online mental health therapy, such as virtual reality and remote EMDR. Online therapy is easier for both the practitioner and the client and makes it possible to reduce waiting lists and save costs. Clients can receive treatment much earlier and more frequently and this will speed up recovery. Online therapy is simply reimbursed within the framework of the care performance model and basic health insurance. Precisely because online treatment is becoming more commonplace, no distinction is made between online and physical treatment.
Reimbursement from the basic insurance
Every Dutchman is compulsorily insured for care via the basic insurance. No matter which healthcare insurer you are a member of, the basic insurance is the same for each insurer. However, there may be some differences between them. This depends on the type of basic insurance you choose.
Each year, healthcare providers make price agreements with healthcare insurers. As soon as there is a contract between a healthcare provider and a healthcare insurer, we refer to it as a contracted healthcare provider. However, it is also possible that no agreements are made between the healthcare provider and the healthcare insurer. This is referred to as a non-contracted healthcare provider.
For a basic insurance, you can choose from a restitution policy, a natura policy or a combination policy. Do you have a restitution policy? Then all care will be reimbursed, even if your insurer has no contract with your care provider. If you have a natura policy, all care will be reimbursed by practitioners who have a contract with your insurer. Are you having treatment by a non-contracted care provider? Then the costs of treatment will only be partially reimbursed. Usually around 50 to 80%. With a combined policy, all contracted care will be reimbursed in full, and sometimes non-contracted treatments as well.
Would you like to talk further about online therapy, reimbursement through the healthcare model or other possibilities within the GGZ?
All about separation anxiety and fear of commitment
What is separation anxiety? Separation anxiety in a relationship is the constant fear of being abandoned. You may be afraid to leave someone you care about
What is blended care and is it the future?
As in many other sectors and professions, digitalisation is also in full swing in the health sector. With all its consequences. Blended care and
Remedying anxiety disorders with VR therapy
There are many types of anxiety disorders with different characteristics, causes, consequences and treatment options. The symptoms of the anxiety disorder you experience are very personal and depend on the type of treatment.
(NaturalHealth365) Something that many people look forward to, in the morning, is a cup of fresh brewed coffee to boost energy. While studies have shown this popular beverage to be beneficial for health in many ways, contradictory information has arisen throughout the years about the negative effects of caffeine on the body.
But, wait, several new studies are suggesting that this dark black beverage should have its place in our diet – as there are many health benefits such as, reduced risk of mortality and chronic diseases such as cancer, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and more.
Moderate coffee consumption reduces mortality risk
It should be noted that earlier studies have shown heavy coffee consumption to be associated with a higher risk of mortality. However, more recent studies have revealed that earlier research is inconclusive.
A more recent longitudinal study was released by the American Heart Association journal, Circulation. After reviewing 28 years of data and records of nearly 4.7 million Americans, coffee consumption has been shown to have positive effects associated with lower mortality rate.
According to the scientific data, a higher consumption of total coffee – whether caffeinated or decaffeinated – is associated with lower mortality risk.
Whether it’s caffeinated or decaffeinated, a ‘higher coffee consumption’ was connected to a lower death rate at the one to five cups per day range. Consumers experienced a lower risk of death from type 2 diabetes, certain cancers, cardiovascular disease, and neurological diseases.
Do NOT ignore the health dangers linked to toxic indoor air. These chemicals - the 'off-gassing' of paints, mattresses, carpets and other home/office building materials - increase your risk of nasal congestion, fatigue, poor sleep, skin issues plus many other health issues.
Get the BEST indoor air purification system - at the LOWEST price, exclusively for NaturalHealth365 readers. I, personally use this system in my home AND office. Click HERE to order now - before the sale ends.
Coffee consumption may protect against certain cancers in some people
Several new studies are showing coffee and coffee extracts reduce oxidative DNA damage that leads to carcinogenesis. According to several studies, the caffeine in coffee also contains phytochemicals that have been reported to exert antitumor, antiangiogenic, and antioxidant properties.
Whether caffeinated or decaffeinated, positive results have been detected in several forms of cancer, such as:
Breast cancer: Following more than 335,000 women for an average follow-up of 11 years, a large study published in Breast Cancer Research found that higher caffeinated coffee intake may be associated with a lower risk of postmenopausal breast cancer. For every 100-milliliter increase in caffeinated coffee intake, the risk decreased by four percent for estrogen and progesterone receptor negative breast cancers.
Colorectal tumors: Three cups of coffee per day reduced the overall occurrence of colorectal tumors, as reported by the European Journal of Cancer Prevention.
Endometrial cancer: Scientific Reports recently reported that just one cup of coffee per day can reduce the risk of endometrial cancer by 4 – 7 percent.
Liver cancer: The Gastroenterology journal reported coffee drinkers as having a significant risk reduction in hepatocellular carcinoma. By drinking two to three cups per day, risk was reduced by 38 percent. With more than four cups, reduction increased to 41 percent.
Malignant melanoma: The Journal of the National Cancer Institute reported a modest decrease in the risk of melanoma with four cups or less of coffee consumption.
Higher coffee intake may reduce other chronic diseases
Chronic liver disease: High levels of coffee consumption had a significant risk reduction of chronic liver disease, according to the Gastroenterology journal. Two to three cups per day reduced risk of death by 46 percent, while those who drank more than four cups per day reduced their risk by a whopping 71 percent.
Coronary heart disease: According to a study published in PLoS One, two cups of Italian-style coffee per day reduces risk of coronary heart disease. However, consumption was not associated with plasma lipid changes.
Neurological Diseases: Caffeine has been shown to be neuroprotective by antagonizing certain receptors in the brain which protect motor neurons from excitotoxicity. Additionally, chlorogenic acid in coffee may have clinical benefits for neurodegenerative diseases such as ischemic stroke, according to the Life Science journal.
Type 2 diabetes: While several studies show that high habitual coffee consumption is associated with reduced risk of developing type 2 diabetes, a study published in the Journal of Natural Products found that a specific bioactive substance found in coffee may contribute to prevention. After incubation with cafestol, insulin secretion and glucose uptake increased significantly.
So, should you drink coffee or not?
While these studies mentioned continue to support the beneficial effects of higher coffee consumption, possible advantages must be weighed against potential risks such as anxiety, tremors, palpitations, insomnia, and more. Keep in mind, the health status of each person can vary greatly – especially when considering genetic tendencies or weaknesses.
If you’re not sure about coffee safety – talk to a qualified healthcare provider with lots of experience using natural therapies and nutrition to heal the body. And, above all, pay attention to how you feel (physically, mentally and emotionally) – whenever making any kind of diet or lifestyle change.
About the author: Abby Campbell is a medical, health, and nutrition research writer. She’s dedicated to helping people live a healthy lifestyle in all aspects – physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually. Abby practices, writes, and coaches on natural preventive care, nutritional medicine, and complementary and alternative therapy.
References:
https://circ.ahajournals.org/content/early/2015/11/10/CIRCULATIONAHA.115.017341.long
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25062326
https://pamw.pl/en/issue/article/25490889
https://www.breast-cancer-research.com/content/17/1/15
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4548216
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0126550
https://jnci.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/pmidlookup?view=long&pmid=25604135
https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0016-5085(14)01200-1
https://journals.lww.com/eurjcancerprev/pages/articleviewer.aspx?year=9000&issue=00000&article=99472&type=abstract
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jnatprod.5b00481
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science
Food & Nutrition
Natural Health 365
Natural Health 365 is a premium source of trending and popular health-related news, science, testimony & research articles on the most up to date and relevant natural health information. The Food & Nutrition articles found herein are meant to inform and advise our site visitors on eating healthy, nutritious foods and safely using supplements and vitamins to achieve optimal health.
Join thousands of daily visitors staying informed and involved on Natural Health 365! We seek out scientific solutions with proven results and it is our mission to keep you informed! Articles range in topic from the cancer fighting qualities of Olive Oil, to the remarkably high concentration of anti-oxidants found in blueberries, to how to make your own almond milk, to a nutritional comparison of organic vs conventional produce, to an analysis of the health benefits of tree nuts. You can find all of the Food News Articles here
Read Some of Our Most Popular Articles
Artichokes, Olive Oil, Almond Milk, Blueberries
Food News is one of our major post categories on www.naturalhealth365.com and contains over 350 articles that cover a wide range of subjects; including but not limited to…
Food News
Fruits and Vegetables
Organic Foods
Vitamins
Antioxidants
Omega-3
Healthy Fats
Non GMO
Vitamin D
Vitamin C
Health News
Coconut Oil
Healthy Eating
Nutrition News
Sugar
Processed Foods
Saturated Fats
More Food & Nutrition Articles
Fresh Organic Produce Fights Cancer, Susan G. Komen on Organic Foods, Hemp Seeds for Inflammation, Pau D’Arco For Improved Immunity
In addition to exploring health benefits of certain foods, vitamins and supplements, we also aim to connect healthy eating and balanced consumption of dietary supplements to long-lasting health and adding healthy, happy years to your life. For example, did you know that eating Granny Smith Apples on a regular basis can reduce your chance of building up unhealthy gut yeast? Or that ingesting ground hemp seeds can significantly reduce inflammation throughout the body? Perhaps you didn’t know that Fresh Organic Produce has been found to have higher concentrations of key, cancer-fighting anti-oxidants and vitamins than conventional produce? You can find all of that information and more right here on Natural Health 365.
We’d love to know what you’re thinking! Please join the conversation on Facebook, post comments here on the website and feel free to reach out to us if you have any questions.
Please use and share the articles you find here with your friends, family and peers.
RELATED NEWS
12 science-backed Ayurvedic herbs and spices with POWERFUL health benefits
(NaturalHealth365) Ayurveda is a traditional system of medicine that originated in India … 12 science-backed Ayurvedic herbs and spices with POWERFUL health benefits
Restore physical and mental energy with ginseng
(NaturalHealth365) In the time-honored Indian healing system known as Ayurveda, a “rasayana” … Restore physical and mental energy with ginseng
Manuka honey fights antibiotic-resistant bacteria plus so much more
(NaturalHealth365) The steadily worsening problem of antibiotic-resistant pathogens – cause for grave … Manuka honey fights antibiotic-resistant bacteria plus so much more
Slash your cancer risk with two POTENT spices
(NaturalHealth365) Within the past few years, scientists at the forefront of cancer … Slash your cancer risk with two POTENT spices
Subscribe
Login
Notify of
new follow-up comments new replies to my comments
Label
{}
[+]
Name*
Email*
Website
Label
{}
[+]
Name*
Email*
Website
12 Comments
Oldest
Newest Most Voted
Inline Feedbacks
View all comments
Load More Comments
← Previous Article
Next Article →
MOST POPULAR
This Week
1
Updated VAERS data show the number of COVID jab-induced injuries and death toll continue to rise
2
Strange Reality: Omicron-specific injection created weeks BEFORE announcement of new variant
3
Brownstone Institute: Exposing children to the risks of COVID injections to protect adults is “reckless and dangerous”
4
Exciting potential: How to IMPROVE your brain function with melatonin … especially valuable for older people
5
Mind-boggling VIDEO: Pfizer and FDA knew the COVID jab would kill thousands
6
BOMBSHELL evidence: FDA and Pfizer conspired to hide thousands of adverse events and deaths caused by the COVID jab
All Time
1
SHOCKING: Pfizer expects many vaccine injury LAWSUITS, demands global indemnity
2
Breaking News: Medical doctor exposes fraud inside WHO, CDC and led by Dr. Anthony Fauci
3
Former employee of Dr. Anthony Fauci jailed, tells all about stunning “PLANDEMIC” theory
4
Bombshell NEWS: The truth about Dr. Anthony Fauci, exposed by a top scientist
5
Coronavirus UPDATE: Massive coverup exposed by bioweapons expert
6
WARNING: Why COVID-19 vaccine could become a HUGE failure, according to environmental health scientists
Popular Topics
Toxic Chemicals
Drug Alerts
Food News
Heart Disease
Natural Healing
Nutrition News
Vaccine Updates
Vitamin C
EMF Warnings
The Inside Scoop
Contact Us
Inner Circle Login
About Jonathan Landsman
NaturalHealth365 Store
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Let's Be Friends
Join thousands of NaturalHealth365 Subscribers on your favorite platform!
All content on this site are the freely-expressed, individual opinions of all those involved. NaturalHealth365.com does not recommend any particular nutritional supplement or treatment option for any medical health condition. We do not intend to replace the need for professional advice in any way. Ultimately, it is up to you to work with a qualified, medical professional and make an informed decision. The information on this site is provided for educational purposes only. Your use of this website constitutes an agreement with our terms and conditions. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks posted on this website are the property of their respective owners.
Marialuisa Lavitrano Marialuisa Lavitrano is professor of Pathology, director of Molecular Medicine Lab, and director of the School of Oncology at the University of Milano-Bicocca where she was pro-rector for International Affairs for 8 years (2006–2013). She participated in the preparatory phase of BBMRI as the Italian member state representative and in 2013 has been appointed as BBMRI.it Node Coordinator. For four years, she developed the international strategies for the Ministry of Health and coordinated the Italian participation in the BioMedical Sciences ESFRI roadmap.
Prof. Lavitrano is actively involved in research in molecular medicine with a translational approach for the transfer of the scientific results to the clinical practice. She also founded a university spin-off for the development of tumour bio-markers and of modulator compounds of drug resistance in epithelial tumours.
She has published 123 scientific papers and was co-inventor of 4 patents and 10 patent applications. She is interested in the bioethical aspects of science and research and participated at Bioethic Commissions of the Council of Europe, of the Vatican, and of the Italian government and is co-director of the ELSI common Service of BBMRI-ERIC. Prof. Lavitrano is Milano-Bicocca University's project leader for RItrain and the Director of the Executive Masters in Management of Research Infrastructures.
Below is information about the structure and function of the canine endocrine system. We will tell you about the general structure of endocrine system, how it works in dogs, common diseases that affect the endocrine system and common diagnostic tests performed to evaluate the endocrine system in dogs.
The endocrine system is composed of several different types of glands and organs that produce the hormones of the dog’s body. A hormone is a chemical that is secreted by a gland in one area of the body and is carried by the bloodstream to other organs in the body, where it exerts some effect. Most hormones regulate the activity or structure of their target organs. The overall effect of the endocrine system is to regulate, coordinate and control many different bodily functions. The endocrine system includes the hypothalamus, pituitary gland, thyroid gland, parathyroid glands, adrenal glands, part of the gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, kidneys, liver, ovaries and testes.
The pituitary gland is located on the base of the brain and is attached to the hypothalamus via a stalk-like structure.
The endocrine system is made up of a collection of glands distributed throughout the body. The endocrine glands produce hormones and secrete them directly into the internal environment where they are transmitted via the bloodstream. Hormones produce certain effects at different points in the body. Some endocrine glands are directly under the control of the pituitary gland. For example, the adrenal gland is controlled by the pituitary hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH causes the adrenal glands to produce cortisone (cortisol), which is also a hormone. Other endocrine glands respond directly or indirectly to concentrations of substances in the blood, such as the insulin-secreting cells of the pancreas responding to the sugar concentration in the blood.
The major function of the endocrine system is to regulate numerous bodily functions, using specific hormones as messengers. Some hormones affect nearly all cells, while others regulate and affect only a single organ. Hormones act by regulating cell metabolism, by changing or maintaining enzyme activity in receptor cells, and by controlling growth and development, metabolic rate, sexual rhythms and reproduction.
The amount of hormone produced at any one time is controlled by feedback mechanisms. These feedback mechanisms are interactions between the endocrine glands, the blood levels of the various hormones, and certain activities of the target organ. For example, when the pituitary gland increases the secretion of ACTH, the increased levels are detected by the adrenal gland, and the end result is more production of cortisone hormone by the adrenal glands. As the cortisol levels rise in the bloodstream, the hypothalamus eventually detects these higher levels and sends a message to the pituitary gland. The pituitary gland then turns down its own production of ACTH. As the ACTH levels in the bloodstream subsequently fall, the adrenal gland decreases its production of cortisol to a normal level again. This is called a negative feedback loop.
Diseases of the endocrine system can arise with either overproduction or underproduction of hormones. There are numerous diseases of the endocrine system in dogs.
Diseases of the hypothalamus usually result in decreased function of the pituitary gland. The end result is less secretion of several pituitary hormones such as growth hormone, ACTH, or thyroid stimulating hormone.
Diabetes insipidus is a disease where the kidneys are unable to retain water because of a lack of antidiuretic hormone. Animals with diabetes insipidus, also known as water diabetes, are profoundly thirsty and urinate excessive amounts.
The endocrine disorders associated with the pituitary gland fall into two types: under production of hormones (hypofunction of the gland), and excessive production of hormones (hyperfunction of the gland).
Undersecretion of pituitary growth hormone (GH) is not very common in the dog, but can occur in both puppies and adult dogs. Insufficient production of growth hormone in puppies results in dwarfism. When the production of GH is abnormally low in the adult dog, hair loss is the major symptom.
Overproduction of growth hormone causes a disorder called acromegaly. Acromegaly in the dog usually develops as a side effect to the long-term administration of progesterone drugs, but can also develop from a pituitary tumor. Affected dogs develop blunt and broad faces with excessive skin folds on the face and neck. They may develop enlargement of the abdomen, lethargy, weight gain and neurologic signs.
Hyperthyroidism arises when the thyroid gland becomes overactive and excessive amounts of the hormone thyroxine (T4) are released. Too much thyroxine in the body causes multiple clinical signs, including weight loss, increased appetite, vomiting, diarrhea, high blood pressure and sometimes, excessive activity. Hyperthyroidism is uncommon in the dog and most often arises from a cancerous tumor of the thyroid gland.
Hypothyroidism is a common disorder of dogs. It may arise with immune destruction of the thyroid gland. Some breeds of dogs are predisposed to this condition. With hypothyroidism the thyroid gland does not produces normal amounts of T4. Hypothyroid dogs often become sluggish and gain weight. They seek out warm places, have thin hair coats, and may develop neurologic and other signs.
Parathyroid gland diseases are uncommon in the dog, and may reflect either hypofunction or hyperfunction of the parathyroids.
Undersecretion of parathyroid hormone is called hypoparathyroidism. This condition may develop in young dogs, and may be due to immune destruction of the glands. Because parathyroid hormone is needed to maintain normal calcium levels in the body, hypoparathyroid dogs exhibit signs associated with low calcium. Signs include seizures, muscle twitching and tremors, trouble walking and weakness.
Oversecretion of parathyroid hormone, or hyperparathyroidism, also results in abnormal calcium levels in the body. This condition may arise with either benign or cancerous tumors of the gland. Calcium levels in the body become very elevated, and may result in kidney damage with increased urination, vomiting, loss of appetite, lethargy and muscle weakness.
Diabetes mellitus (or sugar diabetes) is an important disease of the endocrine portion of the pancreas. This common disorder of dogs arises with underproduction or inappropriately low secretion (release) of insulin. Insulin is the hormone that controls blood sugar and the usage of blood sugar by various organs in the body. Inadequate production of insulin causes the blood sugar to increase. Signs associated with elevated blood sugar include increased thirst and urination, weight loss despite a normal appetite, muscle weakness and development of cataracts.
Insulinomas are insulin-secreting tumors of the pancreas. Excessive amounts of insulin cause profound hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), and this often results in weakness, disorientation and seizures.
The adrenal glands produce several hormones, but the most common disorders of this gland result in changes in cortisol levels. Cortisol is the cortisone hormone.
The most common disease of the adrenal gland involves the overproduction of cortisol, also known as hyperadrenocorticism (hypercortisolism) or Cushing’s disease. Cushing’s disease is usually seen in middle aged to older dogs and often arises secondary to an overproduction of the hormone ACTH by the pituitary gland. A tumor of the adrenal gland may also result in too much cortisol secretion. Excessive drinking, urinating, increased appetite, panting, hair loss and a pot-bellied appearance are typical signs of too much cortisol production.
A less common disease of the adrenal gland is hypoadrenocorticism or Addison’s disease. Addison’s disease is seen more commonly in dogs than cats and is caused by a deficiency of two hormones, cortisone and aldosterone. Aldosterone regulates sodium and potassium levels in the body. Dogs with Addison’s disease are often weak, have low heart rates, vomiting, diarrhea, low blood sugar, and may be collapsed.
A tumor of the adrenal gland, called a pheochromocytoma, is a rare cause of high blood pressure in the dog. This tumor causes the overproduction of epinephrine hormone in the dog. It occurs primarily in older dogs.
Other less common endocrine disorders involve changes in the amount of circulating fat (lipid) in the body, the underproduction or overproduction of red blood cells, and various functions of the reproductive system.
Acai berries are an excellent source of phytonutrients and antioxidants, as noted in the findings of an analysis published in the Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry. In that report the authors noted that their evaluation of freeze-dried acai fruit showed it had “the highest antioxidant activity of any food reported to date….[and that] this fruit would be an excellent food to study for potential disease prevention effects in the future.”
Acai berries appear to be a wise addition to an overall healthful diet, but it’s too soon to say they possess any super powers.
On demand webinar: Medical Imaging AI: What the data tell us - Annalise.ai
News & Research — On demand webinar: Medical Imaging AI: What the data tell us
On demand webinar: Medical Imaging AI: What the data tell us
Despite the availability of a variety medical artificial intelligence products on the market, adoption into clinical practice has been slow. On February 23rd Dr Keith Dreyer, Chief Data Science Officer, Mass General Brigham and Dr Catherine Jones, Thoracic Radiologist and Chest Lead at annalise.ai discussed the challenges of deploying artificial intelligence into a clinical setting and the development of a comprehensive medical ai tool.
Tuesday 23rd February | 12pm EST / 5pm GMT / 4am AEDT (24th Feb)
In partnership with Aunt Minnie. Watch the webinar on demand here.
1| The Role of AI in Medical Imaging in 2021: Opportunities and Challenges
Presented by Dr Keith Dreyer, Chief Data Science Officer, Mass General Brigham
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning provide the possibility of significantly enhancing how we practice radiology, now and in the future. While the technology holds great promise, there are many challenges to its successful deployment in clinical practice. Hundreds of algorithms have been cleared for use by the FDA, yet only a small minority of radiologists have deployed AI clinically. In this lecture, we will explore feedback on the use of AI from thousands of radiologists in a recent survey conducted by the American College of Radiology Data Science Institute, uncovering many challenges that exist in medical imaging AI today.
Recognise potential obstacles in deployment of AI into clinical setting
Identify specific challenges radiologists face using AI in medical imaging
Understand the FDA's regulatory process for clearing algorithms for use
2| AI and the CXR - developing and validating comprehensive AI
Presented by Dr Catherine Jones, Thoracic Radiologist and Chest Lead, annalise.ai
Rapid advances in artificial intelligence modelling have led to the development of new and exciting AI tools to assist radiologists. Developing a comprehensive chest X-ray diagnostic tool is a complex process, requiring consideration of clinical use cases, workflow integration and hidden stratification. Dr Catherine Jones discusses the process of developing and validating the most comprehensive chest X-ray diagnostic tool available.
To understand the commonly used terms relating to artificial intelligence in radiology.
To gain a deeper insight into the development of AI for the interpretation of chest radiographs.
To develop a greater understanding of the clinical use cases of chest radiograph AI.
Dr Catherine Jones | Thoracic Radiologist and Chest Lead | annalise.ai
Prior to her surgical and radiological training in the UK, Dr Jones earned degrees in mathematics and physics, then medicine at the University of Queensland. After a cardiothoracic radiology fellowship in Vancouver, Canada she returned to Australia to begin private practice with the I-MED Radiology Network. Now, as cardiothoracic lead at I-MED, Dr Jones is an executive member of the Australian and New Zealand Society of Thoracic Radiology and sits on multiple committees at the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Radiologists. Her research interests include occupational lung disease imaging, artificial intelligence validation and diagnostic accuracy studies.
Connect with Catherine.
Dr Keith J. Dreyer | Chief Data Science Officer, Mass General Brigham, Chief Imaging Information Officer, Mass General Brigham, Chief Executive, MGH & BWH Center for Clinical Data Science, Vice Chairman of Radiology – Informatics, Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham and Women's Hospital, Associate Professor of Radiology, Harvard Medical School, Chief Science Officer, ACR Data Science Institute
Keith J. Dreyer, DO, PhD, FACR, FSIIM, is Chief Data Science Officer and Chief Imaging Information Officer for Mass General Brigham. He also holds the positions of Vice Chairman of Radiology, Informatics, at Massachusetts General Hospital, Chief Executive for the MGH & BWH Center for Clinical Data Science, and Associate Professor of Radiology at Harvard Medical School. He is ABR board certified in diagnostic radiology with a BS in Mathematics, MS in Image Processing, PhD in Computer Science and medical fellowships in Imaging Informatics and Magnetic Resonance Imaging from Harvard University at MGH. Dr. Dreyer is the Chief Science Officer for the American College of Radiology's Data Science Institute and has held numerous board, chair, advisory, and committee positions with the American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America, Society of Imaging Informatics in Medicine and numerous global healthcare corporations. He has authored hundreds of scientific papers, presentations, chapters, articles and books; lecturing worldwide on artificial intelligence, clinical data science, cognitive computing, clinical decision support, clinical language understudying, digital imaging standards, and implications of technology on the quality of healthcare and payment reform initiatives.
Connect with Keith.
Webinar: Artificial Intelligence - A Clinical Perspective [9th March]
Webinar: The anatomy of radiology artificial intelligence, the hype and the reality and the rise of comprehensive tools [16th March]
My insurer doesn't want to cover my emergency costs | EMS-Ambulance | EMS Ambulance
What can I do if my travel insurer won't cover my emergency evacuation?
EMS Ambulance 27 Nov 2018
For most people, travel insurance simply provides peace of mind while on holiday: we tick the boxes, pay the fee and carry on with our packing. But if someone falls ill or has an accident while abroad, the quality of that insurance policy suddenly becomes hugely important.
Generally, travel insurers pay out as required, without any problems. But not always. Some insurers have been known to refuse to pay for hospital bills or emergency evacuation (also called medical repatriation) after a claim has been lodged. This has the potential to quickly escalate a stressful situation into a life-threatening one.
Last week reports emerged that a leading UK-based travel insurer is facing investigations into its conduct by the General Medical Council (GMC) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), after some policyholders claimed they had been denied emergency flights home (allegations the company denies).
Why might my travel insurer refuse to pay for my emergency treatment?
Insurance companies may refuse to pay for all or part of an emergency claim for a variety of reasons. This might be because the patient has omitted to include a pre-existing condition or prescription in their policy declaration, or because they were under the influence of alcohol at the time of injury. In the case of repatriation, the travel insurer may argue that it's safer to treat the patient in the host country rather than to bring them home.
What does EMS believe?
As long-term experts in medical repatriation, EMS Ambulance believes that evacuation is the safest choice for the vast majority of patients. Repatriating a patient to their own country avoids the risk of lower medical standards, poor hospital hygiene and ageing equipment found in some countries around the world. It's also widely documented that patients recover better at home.
While travel insurers sometimes claim that a patient isn't well enough to make the journey, the reality is that modern medical evacuation services like EMS can often provide much better care during the evacuation process than the patient is likely to receive while abroad. EMS' road and air ambulances feature state-of-the-art medical equipment – including life-support – and a team of dedicated medical specialists to care for them during the journey.
Unfortunately, insurers sometimes refuse to repatriate because they claim there isn't a pressing medical reason to justify the patient's relocation. At EMS, we strongly believe that the patient's health and wellbeing should always be the primary concern.
What can I do if my travel insurer won't bring me home?
In the unfortunate event that a travel insurer refuses to evacuate you or a loved one, don't worry. The first step is to contact a reputable emergency evacuation expert – you can get in touch with EMS Ambulance by phone, email, Skype or Whatsapp message. We act independently to travel insurers. We can make our own professional medical diagnosis in person, so that our medical experts can determine the safest way to get the patient home. We only use the highest quality medical equipment during transit, and our road and air ambulances are equipped for every medical emergency. We can act quickly to bring patients home – often on the same day.
