It's time for a new ROI measurement. If digital manufacturing technology changes the way you produce goods -- allowing you to leapfrog previous productivity metrics -- then your return on investment (ROI) needs to be measured differently, as well. A report from the Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity and Innovation (MAPI) suggests that new ROI metrics are needed for companies doing cost-benefit analysis on the purchase and implementation of advanced automation technologies.
MAPI's study suggests that, unlike with capital investments, the purchase and implementation of new technologies involves a larger and more complex set of decision factors beyond traditional ROI metrics. "We looked at companies that were having to make decisions on technologies that were new to them and maybe new to the world," Cliff Waldman, director of economic studies at MAPI, told Design News . "You can't use the same decision parameters as you would for other capital investments. The new technology investment is different."
Traditional capital investment analysis and related ROI metrics fall short when evaluating investments in rapidly advancing new technologies. The MAPI report asserts that an alternative decision framework is needed to capture the expanded benefits, costs, and likely productivity gains associated with new technology investments. "It's a paradigm change. You're not just adding a machine because the market is getting strong and you have to produce more," said Waldman. "New technology has to be viewed differently. This is a paradigm change where you look at markets and competition. It's more risky but it may have a higher return."
One of the factors that's new to ROI is the notion of keeping up with the Joneses. Not deploying advanced technology could put a manufacturer behind its competition. That's a new metric in ROI. "Sometimes you deploy new automation technology because you see a fundamental change in the market. Those can be competitive pressures," said Waldman. "You don't want to be left out in the cold if robots can do it better and cheaper. If your competitors are doing it, you better do it or you'll fall behind."
New ROI metrics have to be developed to take into account potentially radical changes in the way goods are produced, tracked, and delivered. "For a lot of these new technology, it's not incremental. The new technology results in a different way to produce products. It can become a different supply change," said Waldman. "When you make a decision to adopt new technology, you may change the nature of your production. That's different from equipment purchases that just expand your capacity to produce."
The result of the new technology may not deliver a measurable advance over previous production. It may open a new market or prevent the company from losing an existing market. Those consideration require new ROI calculations. "If advances in technology are no longer incremental, then those investments cannot be assessed from the point of view of incremental advances,"
Global Clinical Nutrition Market Size, Growth Analysis and Statistics by 2020 to 2027
Global Clinical Nutrition Market Size, Regional Growth Analysis, Outlook and Forecast Data 2020-2027
The global Clinical Nutrition market size is projected to reach US$ 14750 million by 2027, from US$ 12110 million in 2020, at a CAGR of 3.3% during 2021-2027.
This report focuses on Clinical Nutrition volume and value at the global level, regional level and company level. From a global perspective, this report represents overall Clinical Nutrition market size by analysing historical data and future prospect. Regionally, this report focuses on several key regions: North America, Europe, Japan, China, Southeast Asia, India, etc.
The Key manufacturers that are operating in the global Clinical Nutrition market are:
The analysts have provided a comprehensive analysis of the competitive landscape of the global Clinical Nutrition market with the company market structure and market share analysis of the top players. The innovative trends and developments, mergers and acquisitions, product portfolio, and new product innovation to provide a dashboard view of the market, ultimately providing the readers accurate measure of the current market developments, business strategies, and key financials.
Andrew H. Messiha, MD, Double Board Certified in Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Laguna Hills, CA / Patient Info / Neurology / Neurology Procedures / Occipital & Peripheral Nerve Blocks
Introduction
The peripheral nervous system carries signals of movement and sensations such as heat, cold, and pain from different parts of your body to the central nervous system formed by the spinal cord and brain. Injecting an anesthetic around a peripheral nerve can block the transfer of pain signals from the region it supplies to the brain. This is called a peripheral nerve block and can be used to manage chronic pain.
A common peripheral nerve block is the celiac plexus block. The celiac plexus is a bundle of nerves around the aorta that carry pain impulses from various abdominal organs.
The greater occipital nerve is a peripheral nerve that travels through the muscles at the back of the head and into the scalp providing sensation to the back and top of the scalp. A greater occipital nerve block involves injecting medication around the greater occipital nerve to relieve pain.
Indications
A celiac plexus block is indicated to relieve chronic pain in the abdominal region, most often due to pancreatic cancer or pancreatitis.
Greater occipital nerve blocks are commonly used for patients with a unilateral headache, mainly at the back of the head. This block may also be used in patients with occipital neuralgia experiencing shooting, zapping, stinging, or burning pain in the back of the head. Patients with migraines, cluster headaches, and other painful conditions may also obtain temporary relief with this block.
Surgical Procedure
A celiac plexus block is carried out under local anesthesia and sometimes sedation. You will lie on your stomach on an X-ray table and your blood pressure, oxygen, and heart activity are monitored. The region of the skin to be injected is cleansed with an antiseptic solution and local anesthesia is administered. X-ray images are taken to guide the needle to the correct position of the nerve plexus. A test dye is injected to ascertain the correct location. Then the anesthetic is injected gradually over a couple of minutes. Sometimes, the anesthetic is combined with a steroid to prolong pain relief, or alcohol or phenol to destroy damaged nerves. Once the medication has been injected completely, the needle is removed and a bandage is placed. The entire procedure takes about 10 to 30 minutes.
For an occipital nerve block, you will lie down on an examination table. Your doctor then locates the greater occipital nerve by palpation of the scalp. The skin is cleansed with alcohol and your doctor injects a local anesthetic and steroid mix with a fine needle over the area of the trunk of the nerve. The injected region becomes numb and pain is relieved.
Post-procedure
After a celiac plexus block, you may feel warmth in your abdomen, and experience pain relief that will last for a few days. For a better outcome, you are advised to have a series of 2 to 10 injections at varying intervals. The duration of relief tends to get longer after each injection.
Following the occipital nerve block, the anesthetic effect wears off over several hours and the steroid begins to act over the next few days. This helps provide pain relief for several days to a few months.
Risks and complications
Although celiac plexus nerve block is a safe procedure, it may be associated with certain side effects and risks such as temporary pain and soreness at the injection site, temporary weakness or numbness near the abdominal wall or legs, bleeding, infection or injection of the anesthetic at other regions of the spine, blood vessels, and surrounding tissues.
Risks and complications are rare following an occipital block but can include infection, nerve or blood vessel injury, and allergic reaction to medications. You may also feel dizzy for a short period. Sometimes, thinning of the scalp at the injection site and hair loss may also occur.
Summary
Occipital and Peripheral nerve blocks are used to treat pain in various regions of the body including the back of the head and the abdomen. They can produce prolonged relief and reduce the need for oral pain medications which can have adverse side effects.
Related Topics
Occipital & Peripheral Nerve Blocks
Occipital Nerve Block
Andrew H. Messiha, MD
Double Board Certified in Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine
View Profile
Patient Resources
First Visit Guide
Patient Forms and First Visit
Insurance Info
Menu
Home
About Dr. Messiha
Services
Media
Contact Us
Info Links
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Feedback
Tell a Friend
Accessibility Statement
Services
Multimodal Pain Management
Nerve Blocks
Radiofrequency Ablation
Trigger Point Injections
Peripheral Joint Injections
Peripheral Nerve Stimulators
Epidural Steroid Injections
Regenerative Medicine
Facet Joint Injections
Cancer Pain
Spinal Cord Stimulators
Botox (Migraines and Dystonia)
Ketamine Infusions
Lidocaine Infusions
© Andrew H. Messiha, MD, Double Board Certified in Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Laguna Hills, CA
F5 Networks, Inc. financial benchmarking
Listed companies' analysis | Ranking | Industry ratios | Ratios (FFIV) | Statements (FFIV)
F5 Networks, Inc. (FFIV) financial analysis and rating
Revenue $2,406 million (ranked #50 out of 149 companies in the industry)
Assets $4,899 million (ranked #36)
We have conducted a comparative analysis of the balance sheet and the income statement of F5 Networks, Inc. (hereafter – the "Company") for the year 2020 submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The primary business activity of the company is Computer Communications Equipment (SIC code 3576). During the analysis we have compared the key financial ratios of the company with the average (median) values of those ratios calculated for the specific industry sector and for all industries. The averages are calculated using the data from financial statements for the year 2020 submitted to the SEC through the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (EDGAR). By comparing each of the eleven key metrics with the median value, we have made a generalized conclusion about the quality of the financial condition of the company. Calculations and summary conclusions are made in a computerized way using software and methods developed by Consulting financial and analytical company Ankon.
As a result of the analysis of the key financial ratios of the company, we have established the following. The financial condition of F5 Networks, Inc. in 2020 is better than the financial condition of half of all companies engaged in the activity "Computer Communications Equipment"
The same conclusion can be made when comparing the ratios of the Company with the averages for all U.S. industry sectors. The financial position of F5 Networks, Inc. is better than that of most listed companies that submit financial statements to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Why you should treat yourself to a massage - Mobile massage London by Zyona Massage
Gone are the days when treating yourself to a massage was a rarity, preserved for those special occasions when you could afford it. Research has shown that a massage can benefit our body and mind in so many ways that it is now considered an essential part of every person's wellness routine. Let's look at the many reasons why you should treat yourself to a massage.
Whether you spend your day bent over a desk, punching away at a computer or on your feet, dealing with an influx of customers, your body is going to feel the strain. Tension rears its head in the neck and shoulders and legs and feet begin to throb. Add into this the general emotional toil thrown at us by our jobs and the nervous system also begins to suffer.
The good news is that massage can help with all of these issues and more.
Studies have shown that a professional massage improves heart health. Even a short head massage with you sitting in a chair lowers blood pressure and heart rate. Whether you suffer from hypertension or not, use a massage to lower your blood pressure for as much as 72 hours afterwards.
With your room prepped by you, complete with soothing music, candles and incense, it's easy to see how a massage can soothe the mind. Particularly suitable is an aromatherapy massage where the therapist uses oils infused with natural essences. Massage reduces the amount of the stress hormone, (cortisol), in the body by as much as 30%, increasing levels of feel-good serotonin at the same time by up to 28%. Book this type of massage if you suffer from stress, anxiety or depression.
Whether amid a pandemic or not, massage is a great way of boosting the immune system. It does this by increasing the number of white blood cells, the body's disease warriors. Less stress in the body also makes us less exposed to infection, speeding up the passage of lymph through the body and improving the immune response. For those feeling low in energy, maybe recovering from a virus, a massage can help.
Nutrition Must Be Part Of COVID-19 Recovery Plan For Children - Protein Challenge NG
Prev Soybean Consumption, Answer To Protein Deficiency in Nigeria01 October 2020Next Lagos PAN To Establish Hatchery For Day-old Chicks01 October 2020
Nutrition Must Be Part Of COVID-19 Recovery Plan For Children
October 1, 2020in	news 0 Comments 0 Likes
Prof. Ngozi Nnam, President, Federation of African Nutrition Societies, says that failure of governments in the African region to include nutrition in the COVID-19 recovery plan will result in drastic increase in wasting of children on the continent.
Nnam, a professor of Community and Public Health Nutrition at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, said this was crucial, considering the fact that Africa is one of the continents that had the highest rates of malnourished children before the outbreak of the pandemic.
The professor disclosed this during an exclusive interview with PUNCH HealthWise, stressing that the COVID-19 global pandemic had worsened the burden of child malnutrition in the region. She noted that the pandemic, in less than eight months, had reversed the gains made in the fight against under-five malnutrition for many years.
According to the United Nations Children's Fund, wasting, also known as low weight for height, is a strong predictor of mortality among children under five, occasioned by acute significant food shortage and/or disease. The UN agency says that wasting is indicative of a serious problem urgently requiring a response.
Giving insight into the benefits of having a nutrition component in the COVID-19 response and recovery plan, the nutritionist said, "It is very vital that nutrition is included in the COVID-19 response and recovery plan because, during this period of the pandemic, the rate of malnutrition has increased drastically, particularly wasting and underweight, among under-five children. Millions of children across the globe are undergoing wasting as a result of COVID-19." Punch
BioStudio-mini | Triagem Celular | Produtos | Nikon Instruments Europe B.V.
Visão geral / Principais recursos
Cell Observation System
Cell observation system that is perfect for installation in incubators, safety cabinets and isolators
BioStudio-mini is a compact, lightweight phase-difference cell observation system with excellent environmental resistance. It is easy to operate and offers observation and time-lapse imaging of cultured cells.
It can also be used in related research in the field of regenerative medicine.
Click here to find out more about a new era of cell culture with image analysis techniques
Baixar Cell Solutions Brochure (1.69MB)
Compatible with multiple sterilization technologies
BioStudio-mini has an excellent waterproof and chemical resistance design. The microscope can be sterilized with hydrogen peroxide gas, formalin and/or UV. The compact design facilitates the installation of BioStudio-mini in various isolators, incubators and biological safety cabinets.
The microscope stage is completely stationary during image acquisition process eliminating unwanted mechanical disturbances to the sample. Internal optics move to acquire images at different Z positions. A cell-friendly red LED is used for sample illumination, and only turns on during image acquisition.
Observe results from a personal computer with a cable connection to the main body and control box.
Suggested applications in stem cell biology
Observation of cell differentiation, cell division, colony formation, infiltration of cancer cells, scratch assays, and more.
Stomach Cancer, How does stomach cancer develop?, Who gets stomach cancer and why?, What happens when people have stomach cancer?, How do doctors treat stomach cancer?
The stomach is the pouch-like organ located in the upper abdomen, under the ribs, that plays a role in the digestion of food. It connects the esophagus (e-SOF-a-gus), the tube that carries swallowed food, with the small intestine, which absorbs the nutrients needed by the body. When food enters the stomach, the muscles in its wall create a rippling motion that mixes and mashes the food. The glands in the lining of the stomach release juices that begin to digest the mixture. After a few hours, the food becomes a liquid and moves into the small intestine, which makes it easier for the intestine to continue the process of digestion and absorb the substances that the body needs for energy.
Stomach cancer begins when some of its cells take on an abnormal appearance and begin to divide without control or order. If left untreated, these cancer cells can grow through the stomach wall, and they can spread to nearby organs or to nearby lymph nodes *
About 95 percent of all stomach cancers are adenocarcinomas (ah-DEE-no-kar-si-NOH-mas), which start in the glandular cells of the stomach. Other types of stomach cancer include malignant * transformation of the immune * tissue of the stomach wall, which causes lymphoma * of the stomach wall; cancer affecting the hormone-producing cells in the stomach that causes a condition called carcinoid tumor; and gastrointestinal stromal (gas-tro-in-TES-tih-nuhl STRO-mal) tumor, a rare form of stomach cancer that affects nervous system tissue within the stomach.
Who Gets Stomach Cancer and Why?
Each year, about 24,600 people in the United States learn that they have cancer of the stomach, and more than 10,000 will die as a result of the disease. Like most other forms of cancer, stomach cancer occurs most frequently in older people, usually 65 years of age or older. Fortunately, for reasons that scientists cannot fully explain, the number of people who get this disease dropped steadily between the 1940s and the early 2000s.
Stomach cancer is much more common in other countries, especially Japan, Chile, and Iceland. Researchers think the reason may be that people in these countries eat many foods that are preserved by drying, smoking, salting, or pickling. Eating foods preserved in this way may raise someone's risk of developing stomach cancer. People who smoke cigarettes may also be at higher risk of developing stomach cancer. Stomach cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the world.
At first, stomach cancer does not cause any symptoms. When it eventually causes symptoms, they often are mistaken for less serious stomach problems, such as indigestion, heartburn, or a virus. Therefore, it is hard to find stomach cancer early, which makes it more difficult to treat. Possible symptoms include:
Vomiting blood or passing black tar-like stools
One of the most common procedures is called endoscopy (en-DOS-ko-pee), which involves passing a very thin, lighted tube down the esophagus and into the stomach. This tube allows doctors to look directly at the inside of the stomach. If an abnormal area is seen, doctors can remove some tissue from it through the tube and have the tissue examined under a microscope. This process, called a biopsy (BY-op-see), determines whether cancer cells are present.
A person might also have an upper GI series, which is a series of x-rays of the upper gastrointestinal (gas-tro-in-TES-ti-nal) tract, including the esophagus and stomach. These pictures are taken after the person drinks a thick chalky liquid called barium (BA-ree-um). The barium outlines the stomach on the x-rays, helping doctors locate tumors or other abnormal areas.
The doctor might also want to test for blood in the feces * , the solid waste that people produce when they go to the bathroom. This test involves placing a small amount of feces (stool) on a slide and having it tested in the laboratory. Sometimes, blood in the stool is a sign of stomach cancer or other cancers of the digestive tract.
The most common treatment is an operation called gastrectomy (gas-TREK-to-mee), during which surgeons remove part or all of the stomach and some of the surrounding tissue. If all of the stomach needs to be removed, then surgeons connect the esophagus directly to the small intestine. The nearby lymph nodes usually are removed as well.
People with stomach cancer may also be treated with radiation therapy or chemotherapy * , either in an attempt to destroy some of the cancer cells or to ease some of their pain and other symptoms. Radiation therapy focuses high-energy rays on the body to destroy cancer cells and to stop or slow their growth. During chemotherapy, anticancer drugs are given by mouth or by injection into a muscle or blood vessel.
Because stomach cancer is so difficult to cure, researchers have looked at other ways to treat this disease. Studies called clinical trials have been conducted to evaluate some new treatments in cancer patients. One example is biological therapy, which triggers the body's own immune system to attack and destroy cancer cells.
Because people with stomach cancer often have part or all of the stomach removed, they need time to readjust to eating after the surgery. At first, patients are fed intravenously (in-tra-VEE-nus-lee) through a vein in the hand or arm. Within several days, they usually can start taking in liquids, then soft foods, and then more solid foods. Often they need to follow a special diet until they can adjust to having a smaller stomach or none at all. People with stomach cancer need to work with dietitians and nutritionists to make sure that they are getting the nutrients their body needs.
See also Cancer: Overview • Colorectal Cancer • Tumor
Cedars-Sinai. "Stomach Cancer." http://www.cedars-sinai.edu/Patients/Health-Conditions/Stomach-Cancer.aspx (accessed July 12, 2016).
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. "Stomach (Gastric) Cancer." https://www.mskcc.org/cancer-care/types/stomach-gastric (accessed July 12, 2016).
American Cancer Society. 250 Williams St. NW, Atlanta, GA 30303. Toll-free: 800-227-2345. Website: http://www.cancer.org (accessed July 12, 2016).
National Cancer Institute. BG 9609 MSC 9760, 9609 Medical Center Dr., Bethesda, MD, 20892-9760. Toll-free: 800-4-CANCER. Website: http://www.cancer.gov (accessed July 12, 2016).
United Ostomy Associations of America. PO Box 525, Kennebunk, ME 04043-0525. Toll-free: 800-826-0826. Website: http://www.ostomy.org (accessed July 12, 2016).
* lymphoma (lim-FO-muh) is a cancerous tumor of the lymphocytes, cells that normally help the body fight infection
Betsy Lehman Center | Q&A: Dr. Sharon Wright on ways to build and…
Sharon B. Wright, M.D., M.P.H.
Sharon B. Wright, M.D., M.P.H., became Chief Infection Prevention Officer for the Beth Israel Lahey Health system in 2021 after having served nearly 20 years as Senior Medical Director for Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology at its flagship hospital, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. She is a graduate of the Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and serves as President of the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America.
Betsy Lehman Center: Early last year, you went from managing infection prevention at a single academic medical center to addressing infection control challenges across a larger health care system at all levels of care. What does your current work involve? How do you spend your days?
Dr. Wright: The position is still new for me and for Beth Israel Lahey Health, too. It's also relatively new across the United States. There is increasing interest in system health care epidemiologist roles, but, so far, there are just a small number of us doing this work.
In large health care systems, patients are often transferred back and forth between facilities. They may see a primary care physician at one institution and a specialist in another. Just from a patient-friendly standpoint, it's helpful to have the same screening procedures and requirements at all of our facilities. So, part of my work is to define best practices, not just at the academic center, which is my background, but for all of our settings, including home care, hospice, assisted living, community-based practices and acute care hospitals of all sizes.
From a patient-friendly standpoint, it's helpful to have the same screening procedures and requirements at all of our facilities.
I started in this role during the pandemic, and my work is still heavily COVID-focused. I work with an infection preventionist at the system level and together with our local hospital-based infection prevention teams, we work to standardize our approach to the care of patients and the protection of staff and visitors. Working at the system level has helped me provide support and additional subject matter expertise, especially to our settings outside of the hospital that may not have formal coverage by infection control — such as community-based physician practices, behavioral services, home care and assisted living facilities. Community hospitals may also benefit from additional support since some have only one infection preventionist for the facility and an infectious disease physician who is also busy caring for patients with COVID-19.
In the last six months or so, we've been able been to visit many of our acute care hospitals, some of which I had never seen in person despite helping to produce guidance for them during the pandemic. We meet with local infection prevention teams, frontline staff and senior leaders to get a better sense of the resources and staffing each facility has available for infection prevention and antimicrobial stewardship activities.
Betsy Lehman Center: Are infection control professionals in short supply in Massachusetts, similar to other disciplines in hospitals and other health care settings?
Dr. Wright: Massachusetts was already dealing with a shortage of infection prevention professionals when the pandemic shone a spotlight on the problem. In particular, the state had a shortage of experienced individuals as many highly skilled professionals were reaching retirement age. Many programs were training infection preventionists in-house before the pandemic because it was hard to find experienced people to fill these roles. These new staff have been enthusiastic additions to our teams and bring new ideas and energy, but overall, staffing wasn't in a great place when COVID arrived.
At some BILH facilities, we utilized additional staff even more during the pandemic, as "extenders" for infection prevention. For years at BIDMC, I partnered with Northeastern University's co-op programs to embed nursing and health sciences students in teams with experienced, regular staff, which is a great learning experience for all of us and adds enormous value to our teams by freeing up infection preventionists for work requiring subject matter expertise. When the students later go out to the floors on clinical rotations or as patient care technicians, they have a good understanding of infection prevention principles and can function as our liaisons on the unit. We find our co-op students often stay on the team until graduation and can help with activities like surveillance, direct observation of infection practices on the units, staff education and participation in quality improvement projects.
Betsy Lehman Center: Can you suggest other strategies for working with a shortage of staff at a time of increased pressure on infection prevention departments? Do you attempt to improve those skills in staff working in other roles?
Dr. Wright: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's national training collaborative called Project Firstline is helping to provide infection control training for staff, regardless of their previous training or educational background. A program from SHEA [Society for Health care Epidemiology of America] called Prevention CHKC provides training for frontline personnel to prevent and control health care-associated infections (HAIs).
In infection prevention and control, we are working both to simplify annual training programs, which tend to be long, and to get out on the floors more often to provide in-person education and training. Technology can help free-up infection preventionists' time so they can do rounds, provide education and assess infection prevention practices. The pandemic has shown us how important these in-person interactions can be in helping staff to understand the reasons behind guidance and to provide opportunities to ask questions.
Some hospitals were using infection control liaisons on inpatient units prior to the pandemic to develop experts among frontline staff, in some cases with paid protected time. Such champions can work on other patient safety metrics as well, such as fall prevention. Infection prevention teams are small and cannot be everywhere in the institution at once. An investment in the development of "local experts" could expand and solidify infection prevention teams during a crisis or normal times by helping to design and disseminate education, performing device rounds to prevent HAIs and keeping day-to-day processes like hand hygiene observation going.
Health care would benefit from developing quick, infection prevention education for frontline staff. Across the U.S. during the pandemic, the lack of time to train staff had an impact on infection prevention. Health care personnel may not have time for long orientation days or online trainings and, in any event, long training sessions may not be very effective. Short videos, like those in Project Firstline and Prevention CHKC, may help fill these gaps going forward. The introduction of large numbers of travel nurses into hospitals may have compounded this problem. As there was a critical need at the bedside to assist with patient care, infection prevention practices specific to an institution, such as line insertion checklists and device rounds, may not have received enough time and attention, leading to missed opportunities to prevent HAIs.
In infection prevention and control, we are working both to simplify annual training programs, which tend to be long, and to get out on the floors more often to provide in-person education and training.
As an alternative to travel nurses, facilities might consider training staff in blended roles to provide care where needed. This could also alleviate the problems of redeployment since the additional role would be part of their job description and been specifically selected by the employee at time of hire. Health care personnel in blended positions could work, for example, as nurses in outpatient clinics to administer monoclonal antibody treatments for COVID-19 or in highly infectious disease units. Outside of infectious emergencies, they could function as nurses on medical-surgical units or in emergency departments. While they might not be needed frequently, highly trained expert staff would be available for specialized roles when you need them most. Pre-COVID, most hospitals were already lean on staffing, which works most of the time but not when a crisis hits. These types of flexible positions could help us be better prepared for the next infectious emergency.
While we're talking about staffing, I also want to say that antimicrobial stewardship teams are among the unsung heroes of the pandemic. We primarily think of them managing antibiotics to prevent resistant organisms and transmission, but these infectious disease pharmacists and physicians have been working tirelessly to develop guidance for the ever-changing menu of COVID-19 therapeutics and to manage shortages.
Betsy Lehman Center: The CDC has reported significant increases in health care-associated infections during the pandemic, including in Massachusetts. How do you interpret that, and could you share some thoughts on how best to refocus efforts on eliminating HAIs that cause harm to patients?
Dr. Wright: It's always been tricky for frontline staff to have enough bandwidth to focus on HAIs. Over the years, hospitals would work on reducing one HAI, like central line-associated bloodstream infections (CLABSIs), and when they reached that goal, their focus would turn to something else, like reduction of catheter-associated urinary tract infections. Sometimes when attention moved elsewhere, CLABSIs would start to increase again. When HAI prevention is not embedded in standard practice and workflows, it becomes extra work and it's hard to keep the attention of busy health care personnel.
During the pandemic, increases in HAIs were also a consequence of the way that care was provided to COVID patients across the country. For example, proning of patients to improve clinical outcomes made it more difficult to monitor central-line exit sites and changed practices around site selection for line insertion. Similarly, attempts to reduce room entry to keep staff safe by putting windows in doors to patient rooms and use of extension tubing changed practices around device care and maintenance.
When we noted an increase in device-associated HAIs after the first surge, we had multidisciplinary discussions about how to prevent similar increases during anticipated future surges. Patients with COVID-19 would still need to be proned, for example, but perhaps processes and reminders could be put in place to maintain best infection prevention practices.
Betsy Lehman Center: As President of the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America, what would you say keeps you and your colleagues up most at night when it comes to patient safety?
Dr. Wright: Many of the things I've already mentioned have cost me sleep at different times during the pandemic. Things like PPE shortages and supply chain issues, HAIs occurring as unintended consequences of some of our interventions and certainly staffing issues, including burnout, are the top of the list. I and others in the field have been thinking a lot about how to build cross-coverage systems to give infection preventionists some rest and time to reflect on what they've been through and how we can best move forward.
Right now, some parts of health care are beginning to feel as if they're getting back to something approaching normal, but infection prevention teams are still in the thick of it, having to do a lot of COVID-19 surveillance on top of their normal activities. This happened after Ebola and H1N1, too, but not at this scale. For many of us, the pandemic is not over yet.
Report No. 17873
ADVENTHEALTH WESLEY CHAPEL 2600 BRUCE B DOWNS BLVD WESLEY CHAPEL, FL 33544 April 29, 2015
Based on medical record review, staff interview, and review of policy and procedures it was determined the Registered Nurse failed to ensure each patient was assessed, intervention provided and evaluation completed related to skin care for two (#7, #8) of ten patients sampled.
Review of the facility policy, "Initial Patient Assessment and Reassessment" #NS.000-03, last revised 8/2013, stated (4)(a) the patient assessment is to include content regarding, (vi) skin integrity.
1. Review of the medical record for patient #7 revealed the patient was admitted on [DATE]. Review of the ER (emergency room ) nursing documentation revealed at 6:19 p.m. the patient had a medicated patch to the coccyx area. The family member stated the patient had an ulcer on the coccyx area.
On 12/3/2014 at 1:44 a.m. the patient was admitted to the medical/surgical unit. The RN (Registered Nurse) performed an admission assessment on 12/3/2014 at 6:00 a.m. The RN did not note if the patient's skin was intact.
On 12/3/2014 at 8:00 a.m. the day shift RN reassessed the patient and noted the patient's skin to be intact and the patient needed total assistance for repositioning. On 12/3/2014 at 9:00 p.m. the night shift RN reassessed the patient and noted the patient's skin to be intact. There was no documentation the patient had been repositioned or was there evidence the patient's coccyx was assessed.
On 12/4/2014 the day shift nurse reassessed the patient at 11:00 a.m. The nurse noted the patient's skin was not intact. Review of the documentation revealed no evidence what part of the patient's skin was not intact. On 12/4/2014 at 2:00 p.m. the RN assessed the patient's coccyx and described it as pink, tender, 20% yellow slough, and a foam dressing was applied.
Review of the medical record revealed from 12/3/2014 at 1:44 a.m. through 12/4/14 at 7:00 p.m. there was no evidence the RN repositioned the patient at least every two hours due to the patient requiring total assistance for repositioning. Review of the medical record revealed from 12/3/2014 at 1:44 a.m. through 12/4/2014 at 2:00 p.m. the patient's coccyx dressing was not removed from the wound and no care was provided by the RN.
2. Review of the medical record for patient #8, a current patient, revealed the patient was identified with a pressure ulcer. Review of the record revealed the patient's ulcer was not assessed by an RN for three days.
Interview with the risk manager and manager of education on 4/29/2015 at 4:30 p.m. confirmed the above findings.
Based on policy and procedure review, personnel file review and staff interview it was determined the facility failed to provide adequate supervision and evaluation of the clinical activities of agency nursing personnel and follow policy and procedure related to Verification of Agency Nurse Qualifications for two (#C and #E) of five personnel files reviewed.
Review of the policy and procedure titled "Verification of Agency Nurse Qualifications" last revised on 8/2013, stated on page 2, (6) off-site agency staff are to attend in-services on new products, chart forms, policies and procedures when provided during scheduled times. Off -site agency staff will be encouraged to attend continuing education programs sponsored and as required by the hospital. Number (7) all off site agency nursing staff will be evaluated upon their initial assignment by house supervisor or unit manager/charge nurse as assigned. Number (8) Individuals receiving acceptable evaluations of satisfactory or above in all categories will be reevaluated on a periodic bases. Number (10) All off-site agency nursing staff must follow and comply with the hospital's established policies and procedures or they will not be allowed to work.
1. The personnel file for Nurse #C did not contain performance re-evaluation by the facility after initial evaluation on 12/10/2013. It did not contain the evidence of the nurse completing annual continuing education the facility's nursing staff was required to complete.
2. The personnel file for Nurse #E did not contain performance re-evaluation by the facility after initial evaluation on 3/26/2013. It did not contain the evidence of the nurse completing annual continuing education the facility's nursing staff was required to complete.
The findings were confirmed with the Education Specialist on 4/29/15 at approximately 4:10 p.m. related to re-evaluation of performance and annual continuing education of agency nurses.
