used cone crushers for salecrusher designed for crushing medium hardness materials such as stone clinker slag sandstone limestone coke with a hardness of about 2000 kg cm2 material moisture up to 5 ifyo9dpay the size of the feed up to 150 mm the finish material 5mm more...know more

LDR3822PQ in White by Whirlpool in ONeill, NE - 3.4 cu. ft. Compact Top Load Dryer with Flexible Installation

We understand personally how hard it is to lose someone you love. When this happens, we will guide you through the process in your capacity as executor, administrator or beneficiary, as quickly as possible. Our many years of probate law experience, in both estate administration and litigation, will help to relieve your stress.
As the executor or administrator, we will help you with the many steps involved in administering an estate, some of which include obtaining information on the decedent’s assets and debts at the time of death; preparing and filing probate documentation; completing claim forms; transferring assets to the appropriate beneficiaries; selling assets, including real estate; and analyzing, drafting and filing the necessary tax returns.
We will also help you with probate litigation issues that may arise. Whether it is due to the interpretation of a Last Will and Testament or the improper administration of an estate, we are experienced in working with Probate Court, either through mediation or trial, and we will work hard to assist you in the most efficient way possible.
Legal fees for probate matters are regulated by the Probate Court having jurisdiction of the estate. Most formulas are “percentage” schedules similar to that used to determine an executor’s commission. We keep detailed records of the time we spend for each and every client and only ask for a fair and reasonable fee based upon the amount of work completed.
We look forward to meeting you and assisting you with your estate administration or probate litigation needs. We can be reached at 440-934-5330 or 1-888-934-5330.

How often do you have, in one place at one time, geographies as diverse as Sussex, Swindon and Southwark? Or organisations from the fire service to the Samaritans? Or professions, from politician to medic to manager?
It happened in London at the recent learning event for Public Health England’s Prevention Concordat for Better Mental Health.
One of the joys of being part of these events – they’re supported by Kaleidoscope, alongside Centre for Mental Health and the King’s Fund – is the breadth of people who have attended, and the rich conversation and new connections that such diversity has brought. So what did we learn?
We were joined for our introductory panel discussion by John Newton, Director of Health Improvement for PHE. John made a simple point, but one that could be made 10 times more frequently, and still not be said enough: “Mental health problems are preventable. The evidence tells us that, but it’s evidence that is poorly understood and under-used.” This truth is what the entire Prevention Concordat is based on, yet it’s striking how powerful it is to reiterate. We’re perfectly happy having a conversation about the range of action we can take to prevent physical health problems, so why do we find it so much harder to talk about mental health?
Also joining us in our panel was Dan Barrett, part of Thrive LDN. Dan drew a parallel between their work with communities to improve the mental health of the capital, and the recent March for our Lives in the US. “We need to start talking about mental health as a social justice issue,” Dan said. Absolutely, agreed Andy Bell of the Centre for Mental Health, “everyone has a right to good mental health.” This only highlights that mental health is only in small part a healthcare issue, and far more about the wider determinants of health, and indeed the determinants of a flourishing society.
This need to think beyond healthcare is one reason why it was great to hear from Pascale Berthellet about the approach taken in Bexley to support mental health in schools. Initiatives such as student mental health champions and a ‘whole school’ approach to promoting good mental health are finding favour – engaging with students, staff and parents alike. The importance of addressing the stigma attached to the term ‘mental health’ was discussed – one participant shared that ‘mental health’ and ‘mental illness’ were often thought of as the same thing, echoing a point made repeatedly throughout these events about the power and importance of language.
We’re happy having a conversation about action to prevent physical health problems, so why do we find it so much harder to talk about mental health?
Inevitably, as this series of an events comes to an end, there was conversation about how PHE and other national organisations can best support local change in the future. There was no shortage of suggestions, from more local visits, to greater lobbying for extra resources. “What would be really helpful,” said one participant, “would be to facilitate nationally the solution to problems we’re all having locally.” Nicely put. It picks up on one of the strengths of the events – organisations and areas realising they’re not alone in facing challenges to promote good mental health and prevent mental health problems. There’s obviously great potential for areas to learn from what each other is doing, and­­ also to solve common problems together. The national role can be to facilitate – not direct – such collaboration.
“A lot of what we’re trying to do with the Prevention Concordat has parallels with the approach taken to reduce teenage pregnancy: focus on data, partnership working, aligned national and local actions,” said Lily Makurah, Deputy National Lead for Mental Health at PHE. A good day to raise this: new data shows conception rates for under 18s in England and Wales in 2016 were the lowest since records were first collected in 1969, down 10% on the year before, and a huge 60% fall since 1998.
At times throughout this series of events, the sheer magnitude of the task in preventing mental health problems and promoting good mental health has become apparent. That can give rise to feelings of fear and helplessness.
Alternatively, it can give great motivation at the scale of potential to improve the lives of our population. The passion and commitment shown in London, like Bristol, Durham, Plymouth, Sheffield, Nottingham and Birmingham before it, give great confidence that improving public mental health could one day sit alongside reducing teenage pregnancy as one of the great social policy success stories of our time.

Having a water softener can provide several benefits for your home. Having hard water can lead to issues with the pipes and plumbing in your home. One issue is a buildup of calcium deposits and limescale. This is noticeable by a white, chalky buildup around facets or in the bathtub or shower. Having too much limescale can also cause a decrease in water pressure throughout the home. To help improve everything, investing in a water softener will resolve these issues in your home.
A water softener uses ion exchange to help improve the water quality. It is an appliance that is directly connected to the water supply system of your home. It typically trades off calcium and magnesium for other elements, usually sodium, thus making the ion exchange. The reason for this is calcium and magnesium both carry a positive charge and in the water softener, they will cling within the system. As the hard water passes through the tank, the sodium ions remove the calcium and magnesium off of it. The end result is the nice soft water then moving through the pipes in your home.
Histologic findings in patients with plaque psoriasis include abnormal keratinocyte differentiation throughout the psoriatic plaques, which is manifested by loss of the granular layer. In addition, the stratum corneum is also thickened.
The diagnosis of plaque psoriasis is almost always made based on clinical findings. Skin biopsy can confirm a diagnosis of plaque psoriasis; however, biopsies are typically reserved for the evaluation of atypical cases or to rule out other conditions when there is diagnostic uncertainty. Similarly, laboratory investigations are rarely indicated. Patients with severe disease may have mild hyperuricemia and low folate levels, which is believed to result from enhanced epidermopoiesis.
Signs of inflammation can be seen throughout the dermis in persons with plaque psoriasis, including marked hypervascularity and an increase in the size of the dermal papillae.
Statistics – University of Reading
Reading home> Library > Finding information > Publication type > Statistics
This guide gives you an overview of some of the major sources of statistics. If statistics are particularly relevant to your subject area, your liaison librarian will have written a guide to statistical sources in your subject - go to Subject help to find this information.
Grid square agricultural census data for England, Scotland and Wales
International Historical Statistics Online (1750-2010)
Data from the 1971, 1981, 1991 and 2001 censuses is available as part of the Census Datasets
Additional UK statistics are available from the Office for National Statistics website.
The Eurostat website is a useful index to and source of European statistical information. Some of the information free, but some will need to be ordered.
Current ed. 4th Floor Reference--314
Earlier eds. Periodical Folio--314
EDC--330.9-POR
Regions: statistical yearbook
Periodical Folio--314
Periodical Folio--305
Europa year books for different areas:-
Eastern Europe & CIS, Western Europe, Africa South of the Sahara, The Middle East and North Africa, Far East & Australasia, USA & Canada, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean
4th Floor Reference 914-918
FAO Statistical yearbook (UN)
Periodical Folio--338.105
The FAO website also includes statistics.
The FAOSTAT database covers areas including: production, trade, food balance sheets, fertilizer and pesticides, land use and irrigation, forest products, fishery products, population, agricultural machinery, and food aid shipments.
OECD Statistics - GDP, health, employment, trade, income distribution, finance, economic outlook, etc statistics for OECD and selected other countries
Periodical--330.9
Quandl is a freely available index of over 7 million time-series datasets, covering subjects such as commodity prices, health statistics, education statistics, demographics, etc. Quandl pulls together its data from over 400 freely available sources. Data can be downloaded in a number of formats.
The UK Data Service covers many subjects including general household survey and the labour force survey, and OECD main economic indicators. Use to find: key economic and social data, both quantitative and qualitative
Latest ed. at 4th Floor Reference--310
Older eds. at Periodical Folio--310
Zanran is a search engine for data and statistics that focuses primarily on finding data presented in numerical or tabular form.
The human genome project was initiated in 1990 to study the structure and characteristics of human DNA that are important for understanding gene functions and their relation to diseases. The large-scale genome research has driven the technology advancement in genetic testing, drug design, gene therapy, and other genetic related areas such as pharmacogenetics. Although the project reveals potential benefits, it raises ethical, legal, and social issues. The outcomes of individuals’ genetic information disclosure may lead to confidentiality and genetic discrimination issues. In addition, clinical relevance of genetic testing and psychological effect from the results are debatable. This article discusses the potential benefits and risks from the human genome project.
Scriver CR. Genetic screening, testing and treatment: How far can we go? J Inher Metab Dis. 1996;19:401–411.
Doctoral Candidate, Division of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, The Ohio State University, 500 W. 12th Ave., Columbus, OH, Ohio, 43210-1214, USA
Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Care and Health Systems, College of Pharmacy, University of Minnesota, Ohio, USA

This entry was posted in Contentment and tagged Compassion, Contentment, Encouragement, Grace, Gratitude, Greatness, Helping Others, Humility, Jesus, Life to the full, Love, Peace. Bookmark the permalink.

Purple and Rhinestone Bracelet - is currently on backorder. You may still purchase now though and we'll ship as soon as more become available.

A belated happy new year! This isn’t the first post I was expecting to write in 2018, but for reasons which will become apparent, I’ve decided to take a more relaxed and spontaneous approach to the blog this year. There will still be coverage of new releases and guest posts, but since it goes down well, I’m going to be writing more of the content myself, including informal book reviews and pieces like this. The travelogue on my recent trip to Vietnam is going to be for next week because whilst I continue to cheat jet lag there’s something demanding my urgent attention: my novel.
I am a writer, but when your working life is both freelance and portfolio, it’s also a juggling act. People are always asking how I manage to do so much (write fiction, self-publish, run blog, workshops, mentoring – and that’s just the writing stuff). I really don’t know because my output belies the enormous amount of time I waste procrastinating or on social media, which is frequently detrimental to my productivity and morale (but in other ways, fun and stimulating and well, sociable).
This isn’t about new year resolutions. My problem with them is the ‘new year’ bit – if I’d made any then you can bet they’d be broken by now. I was going to buy this notepad for a friend until realising I needed it a lot more than she did. (And then it turned out she already had a similar one, so maybe they work.)
If I were to make an off-the-shelf resolution like ‘give up social media’ or ‘get up and write at the crack of dawn’ it wouldn’t work because it doesn’t take into account my personal MO or perception of why my approach to time management needs a shake-up. (If you’re struggling to give up chocolate or alcohol without in-depth analysis of its role in your life, this could be the reason.) The Resilient Thinking for Writers workshop which I teach with Voula Grand is all about helping people tailor strategies to their own circumstances and emotional responses, which necessarily involves taking an objective look at existing patterns and habits.
Serial gadolinium-enhanced MRI of the brain and spinal cord in early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis | Neurology
Serial gadolinium-enhanced MRI of the brain and spinal cord in early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis
J. W. Thorpe, D. Kidd, I. F. Moseley, B. E. Kendall, A. J. Thompson, D. G. MacManus, W. I. McDonald, D. H. Miller
First published February 1, 1996, DOI: https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.46.2.373
Neurology Feb 1996, 46 (2) 373-378; DOI: 10.1212/WNL.46.2.373
Although serial MRI studies of the brain in relapsing-remitting MS have demonstrated frequent asymptomatic disease activity, less is known about the spinal cord. We carried out monthly gadolinium-enhanced brain and spinal cord MRI scans over 1 year in 10 patients with relapsing-remitting MS. Six of the patients had a total of 11 clinical relapses, eight of which involved the spinal cord. A total of 167 active (enhancing or new nonenhancing) lesions in the brain and 19 in the spinal cord were present. Only one active brain lesion was symptomatic compared with six spinal cord lesions. Overall, one-third of new spinal cord lesions were symptomatic, and three-quarters of clinical spinal cord relapses were associated with a new MRI lesion in a location appropriate to the symptoms. Activity in both the spinal cord and brain was more common around the time of relapse. There was a strong association between the spinal cord and brain MRI activity. We did not detect progressive spinal cord atrophy from measurements of a spinal cord cross-sectional area. We conclude that, in relapsing-remitting MS, imaging of the brain alone will detect 90% of active lesions; spinal cord MRI using current technology will therefore provide only modest gains in treatment trials in which lesion activity is the primary outcome measure. The lack of progressive spinal cord atrophy in these patients, suggesting that significant axonal loss has not occurred, is in keeping with their good recovery after relapse. That brain and spinal cord lesions occur concurrently implies a systemic trigger for disease activity.
NEUROLOGY 1996;46: 373-378.
Serial MRI studies of the brain have greatly enhanced our understanding of the natural history and pathophysiology of MS. Studies using either serial T2-weighted [1-3] or T1-weighted images after the administration of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid (Gd-DTPA) [4-10] have demonstrated that the disease is often active even in the absence of clinical change; in patients with relapsing-remitting and secondary progressive MS, disease activity is found on MRI up to 10 times as frequently as clinical relapse. [1,8-11] Brain MRI has gained acceptance as a useful marker of disease activity in the context of clinical trials. [12-16] However, much of the symptomatology of MS implicates the spinal cord, a site not studied by MRI in comparable detail. Although previous studies have shown that it is possible to detect MS lesions within the spinal cord using MRI, [17-22] especially using multiarray receiver coils and fast spin echo (FSE) pulse sequences, [23] there are few published serial data. Weibe et al [24] studied 29 patients over 6 months, but only scanned them three times a month or during a clinical relapse. Capra et al [9] imaged 10 patients every 2 weeks for 3 months.
We carried out monthly Gd-DTPA-enhanced brain and spinal cord MRI scans over 1 year in 10 patients with relapsing-remitting MS to establish how frequently new spinal cord lesions appear and how often they are symptomatic; the frequency and duration of Gd-DTPA enhancement; and the relationship between spinal cord disease and brain disease. From this natural history data, we hope to establish the role (if any) of serial spinal cord imaging in treatment trials. We previously reported a parallel study of progressive MS [25].
We studied 10 women, aged 22 to 45 years, with clinically definite or laboratory-supported definite MS, according to Poser et al.'s criteria. [26] Ethical approval was obtained for the study and all patients gave their written informed consent to participate.
At the outset of the study, a detailed history was obtained and a full neurologic examination was carried out. Disability was rated according to Kurtzke's functional system and expanded disability status scale (EDSS). [27] MRI and clinical examination were then performed monthly over 1 year. At each visit any new symptoms or signs were elicited and the Kurtzke scores were reassessed by a single observer (J.T.), who was blinded to the MRI results. A relapse was defined as the occurrence of a symptom of neurologic dysfunction lasting more than 24 hours. [26] Remission was defined as an improvement in signs or symptoms, or both, lasting for at least 1 month.
All imaging was performed on a 1.5-tesla Signa system (IGE Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI). Brain MRI was carried out using a standard quadrature head coil. Pilot scans were obtained in axial, coronal, and sagittal planes to ensure adequate repositioning. Axial dual echo (proton density and T2-weighted) fast spin echo (FSE3500/18,90, echo train length of 8), and, 5 minutes after the administration of Gd-DTPA (Magnevist 0.1 mmol/kg, Schering), T1-weighted spin echo (SE575/19) images were obtained For all cranial images, contiguous interleaved 4-mm slices, one excitation, and a 192 times 256 matrix with 24-cm field of view (FOV) were used. Spinal imaging using a spinal multiarray receiver coil, was carried out immediately after brain MRI Sagittal T1-weighted spin echo images (SE500/19, 4-mm contiguous interleaved slices, 256 times 512 matrix, 24 times 48-cm rectangular FOV, two excitations) were first obtained, approximately 10 to 15 minutes after Gd-DTPA injection. Then, two sets of sagittal FSE images with different degrees of T2 weighting were obtained, the parameters used were FSE2500/51 and FSE2500/102, echo train length of 16, 3-mm contiguous interleaved slices, 512 times 512 matrix, 48 times 48-cm FOV, two excitations. On the first and last visits only, axial proton density-weighted gradient echo images (GE300/15, flip angle of 15 degrees, 5-mm slice thickness, 256 times 256 matrix, 20-cm FOV, four excitations) at four vertebral levels (C5, T2, T7, T11) were obtained for measurement of spinal cord atrophy Total examination time was approximately 1 hour.
At the end of the study one neuroradiologist (I.M.) reviewed all the brain images sequentially and another (B.K.) reviewed the spinal cord studies. Both were blinded to the clinical history. Lesions were counted on the initial T2-weighted FSE images and a weighted lesion load was calculated by scoring lesions according to size: Table 3 Enhancement of lesions was recorded on all the T1-weighted images; on the follow-up images it was noted whether enhancement was new or persisting from a preceding imaging study. The T2-weighted images were scrutinized for any lesions that had appeared without showing enhancement on the T1-weighted images, as well as for any lesions that had changed in size or disappeared. For the purpose of analysis, an active lesion was defined as one showing gadolinium enhancement on a T1-weighted image or one that had newly appeared or enlarged on a T2-weighted image in the absence of gadolinium enhancement. A set of images was considered active if it contained active lesions.
Measurements of spinal cord area from the gradient echo images were made manually, as previously described [23] on a Sun Workstation using image analysis soft-ware (D L Plummer, Department of Medical Physics, University College, London) Each set of images was measured twice by a single observer (J.T.) who could not tell to which patient they belonged nor whether they were from the beginning or end of the study.
Statistical comparisons were carried out using the chisquare test (chi (2)) with Yates' correction or, for small numbers (expected values less than 5), Fisher's exact test. Comparisons of medians were performed using the Mann-Whitney U test. Spearman's rank correlation was used to assess correlation between nonparamentric data.
Disease duration (measured from the time of the first clinical episode) ranged from 15 months to 5 years (mean, 3 yr); the age at presentation was between 16 and 43 years (mean, 26 yr). Six patients initially presented with optic neuritis, two with partial myelitis, and two with episodes suggestive of brainstem pathology. During the study there were 11 clinical relapses in six patients. Eight of these implicated the spinal cord (sensory and/or motor disturbance in the limbs in six, new Lhermitte's sign and urinary disturbance in one each), one the brainstem (vertigo and vomiting), and two the optic nerves (optic neuritis). One patient received intravenous methylprednisolone (500 mg for 3 days) during a disabling sensory relapse. Three patients showed no clinical change during the study period. One patient, although showing no unequivocal change on neurologic examination, complained of increasing limitation of walking distance over the latter months of the study, suggesting that she might have been entering the progressive phase. Her EDSS changed from 4 to 5 over the course of the year. Overall, there was no difference between EDSS at the beginning of the study (median, 2.5; range, 1 to 4) and at the end (median, 2.25; range, 0 to 5).
On the baseline T2-weighted images, 443 lesions were identified within the brain and 42 within the spinal cord (19 cervical and 23 thoracic). Baseline brain and spinal cord lesion load varied from 3 to 246 (median, 43) and 4 to 25 (median, 9), respectively. There was a tendency for those with the higher brain lesion load also to have higher spinal cord lesion load, but this did not reach statistical significance (r equals .535, p more than .1, Spearman's rank correlation). Three patients showed a total of 14 enhancing lesions in the brain, one of whom also had a single enhancing lesion in the thoracic cord.
Follow-up MRI.
One hundred eighteen follow-up examinations were carried out. Two patients showed no change in either brain or spinal cord MRI over the 1-year period. In the remaining eight patients, there were 144 new contrast-enhancing brain lesions (81 small, 28 medium, and 9 large) and nine new nonenhancing (5 small, 3 medium, and 1 large). Eleven new enhancing spinal cord lesions (7 small, 2 medium, and 2 large) were found (8 cervical and 3 thoracic), including two within a preexisting T2 lesion, as well as seven new nonenhancing lesions (5 small and 2 medium), all within the thoracic spinal cord. None of the spinal cord lesions showed contrast enhancement on more than one monthly scan, whereas 23 brain lesions (9 small, 11 medium, and 2 large) showed enhancement on two consecutive examinations and four lesions (2 medium and 2 large) on three examinations. Although lesions that had enhanced were often smaller on subsequent T2-weighted scans, no brain lesions completely disappeared. Four spinal cord lesions (1 small enhancing, 2 small, and 1 medium nonenhancing) became invisible on follow-up. No lesions became enlarged in the absence of contrast enhancement.
Overall, activity (new or persisting gadolinium enhancement or new or enlarging nonenhancing lesions) was more common on brain than spinal cord imaging: 57 of 128 of brain studies were active, compared with 15 of 128 spinal studies (chi (2) equals 32.48, p less than .001), contrast enhancement was found on 56 of 128 brain scans and 10 of 128 spinal cord scans. There was a clear relationship between the presence of activity in the brain and the spinal cord Figure 1. On the 113 occasions where there was no spinal cord activity, there was no brain activity on 69. Conversely, of the 15 occasions upon which there was spinal cord activity, brain activity was found on all but two scans. The difference was highly significant (chi (2) equals 10.36, p less than .002), and remained significant even when the data from the two patients who showed no activity were excluded (chi2 equals 5.57, p less than.02).
Figure 1. Concordance of brain and spinal cord activity in a 27-year-old woman with a recent sensory relapse with deafferentation of the left hand. (A) T2-weighted fast spin echo (FSE2500/102) of the spinal cord. There is a large lesion between C2 and C4. (B) Gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid (Gd-DTPA)-enhanced T1-weighted spin echo (SE500/19) of the spinal cord. The lesion in the upper cervical cord shows patchy enhancement. (C) Gd-DTPA-enhanced T1-weighted spin echo (SE575/19) of the brain. There are several enhancing lesions.
Clinical versus MRI.
Of the 167 contrast-enhancing or new nonenhancing lesions in the brain identified during the course of the study, we were able to tentatively associate only one with detected symptoms--a contrast-enhancing lesion in the cerebellar peduncle 2 weeks after the patient had experienced 10 days of vertigo and vomiting. Conversely, of the 19 contrast-enhancing or new nonenhancing spinal cord lesions, at least six (4 cervical and 2 thoracic), five of which were contrast-enhancing, were probably symptomatic. This difference was highly significant (p less than .0001, Fisher's exact test).
New lesions in both spinal cord and brain was more common around the time of a relapse. In the six patients who relapsed, 27 follow-up imaging studies were carried out within 1 month before or after a relapse and 44 studies were carried out 2 months or more after a relapse. Significantly more new enhancing and nonenhancing lesions in the brain or the spinal cord, or in both, were found around the time of relapse Table 1. Including baseline examinations, 23 of 28 brain studies done around a relapse were active compared to 28 of 49 in remission; 11 of 28 spinal cord scans during relapse were active compared to 4 of 49 during remission. These differences were significant for both brain (chi2 equals 3.92, p less than .05) and spinal cord imaging (chi2 equals 9.11, p less than. 005). In the remaining four patients who did not relapse, only 6 of 51 brain and 0 of 51 spinal cord scans were active.
Table 1. Relationship between relapse and new brain and spinal cord lesions on follow-up studies in the six patients who relapsed
Intraobserver limits of agreement [28] were from minus 6.7 mm2 to 7.6 mm2 (minus 11.6 to 12.9%); the mean intraobserver error was 4.8%. No data were available for one patient at presentation. Cross-sectional areas of the remaining nine patients are given in Table 2. There was no significant fall in cross-sectional area over the period of the study (Mann-Whitney U test). Several patients (including the one who appeared to be entering the progressive phase of the disease) seemed to show decreases on the order of 10%, but these were matched by apparent increases of the same magnitude in other patients, suggesting that they were likely to be within the inherent errors of the technique.
Table 2. Changes in spinal cord area by vertebral level
There was no significant correlation between spinal cord lesion load or increase in lesion load and either cross-sectional area or change in cross-sectional area.
In this study we attempted to characterize the dynamics of relapsing-remitting MS in the spinal cord using monthly Gd-DTPA-enhanced MRI. Of a total of 485 lesions detected on the baseline images, 42 (9%) were within the spinal cord. Overall, we saw 186 active lesions during the study period, 19 of which (10%) were within the spinal cord. Thus, if lesion count on brain MRI alone is used as a marker of disease activity in the context of a treatment trial in relapsing-remitting MS, approximately 10% of disease activity will be overlooked. Given the significant time penalty involved in spinal imaging, this is probably acceptable, especially since there seems to be no obvious pathophysiologic mechanism by which a treatment would have a different effect in the brain than in spinal cord. Furthermore, because there was spinal cord activity alone on only two of the 59 occasions on which MRI indicated any activity, the percentage of imaging studies revealing activity would fall very little (from 46 to 45%) if spinal MRI were omitted.
As found in many other studies, [1-11] there were many more active lesions in the brain than clinical relapses: Overall, there were 167 active brain lesions and only 11 relapses, a ratio of 15 to 1. Furthermore, only one active brain lesion was probably symptomatic. Conversely, at least six (31%) of the active spinal cord lesions produced symptoms, which is not surprising given the tight packing of critical ascending and descending white matter tracts within the spinal cord. Wiebe et al., [24] who studied 29 patients with relapsing-remitting and progressive MS with three MRI studies at three-month intervals, and additional imaging during clinical relapses, made similar observations. Of the 25 changes they detected on spinal cord imaging, 10 (40%) were symptomatic. Compared to the current study, however, they found relatively little asymptomatic brain disease. This is to be expected, because small lesions, which had ceased enhancing within 3 months, may have been overlooked on the unenhanced images. [29] In the study by Capra et al., [9] two of three contrast-enhancing spinal cord lesions (detected on biweekly imaging for 3 months in 10 patients) were symptomatic, compared with only one of 93 enhancing brain lesions.
New spinal cord lesions were less likely to enhance (61%), particularly in the thoracic region (30%), than new brain lesions (94%) and, unlike brain lesions, never demonstrated enhancement on more than one study. This is likely a result of the greater technical difficulty in producing high-quality, artifact-free T1-weighted images of the spinal cord and the small size of most of the spinal cord lesions, rather than to biological differences in the permeability of the blood-brain and blood-spinal cord barriers in new lesions.
Brain MRI activity was much higher around the time of clinical relapse. This confirms the findings of other authors. [30-32] Of greater significance was the finding that brain activity was more common in the presence of spinal cord activity. The fact that new lesions tend to develop simultaneously at widely spaced anatomic sites can be used to argue strongly in favor of a generalized, systemic stimulus, rather than a local trigger to lesion formation, providing a further rationale for systemic treatment strategies to combat MS.
No patient developed further significant, fixed disability over the study period, apart from one patient probably just entering the progressive phase. There was no discernible progressive atrophy of the spinal cord over the study period, as measured from axial gradient echo images. This is compatible with a lack of significant axonal loss [23] and contrasts with the findings in progressive (both primary and secondary) MS where there was a significant decrease in the spinal cord area over time, in association with an increase in locomotor disability, despite few new developing lesions. [25] This lends credence to the notion that, following an initial relapsing-remitting phase in which there are recurrent episodes of acute perivascular inflammation associated with blood-brain (and blood-spinal cord) barrier breakdown and demyelination but relatively little axonal loss, there can follow a phase of increasing axonal loss (with resultant atrophy) in the absence of acute inflammatory episodes. Further longitudinal studies incorporating newer MR techniques that are sensitive to axonal loss or tissue disruption, such as proton spectroscopy [33,34] and magnetization transfer imaging, [35,36] are needed to clarify this important issue. Furthermore, future advances in imaging, for example, with improved design of multiarray coils, higher matrices, and implementation of three-dimensional FSE allowing for the acquisition of thin (1 mm) axial slices, are likely to improve the MRI resolution of the spinal cord. Further serial studies using such techniques will be needed to evaluate their sensitivity to pathologic changes and the correlation of disease activity with clinical events.
Isaac C, Li DKB, Genton M, et al. Multiple sclerosis a serial study using MRI in relapsing patients. Neurology 1988;38:1511-1515.
Willoughby EW, Grochowski E, Li DKB, Oger J, Kastrukoff LF, Paty DW. Serial magnetic resonance scanning in patients with multiple sclerosis: a second prospective study in relapsing patients. Ann Neurol 1989;25:43-49.
Truyen L, Gheuhens J, Parizel PM, Van den Vyver FL, Martin JJ. Long term follow-up of MS by standardized, non-contrast-enhanced MRI. J Neurol Sci 1991;106:35-40.
Bastianello JA, Pozzilli C, Bernardi S, et al. Serial study of gadolinium-DTPA MRI enhancement in multiple sclerosis. Neurology 1990;40:591-595.
Harris JO, Frank JA, Patronas NJ, McFarlin DF, McFarland HF. Serial gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans in patients with early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis: implications for clinical trials and natural history. Ann Neurol 1991;29:548-555.
Barkhof F, Scheltens P, Frequin STFM, et al. Relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis: sequential enhanced MR imaging vs clinical findings in determining disease activity. AJR 1992;159:1041-1047.
Capra R, Marciano N, Vignolo LA, Chiesa A, Gasparotti R. Gadolinium-pentetic acid magnetic resonance imaging in patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. Arch Neurol 1992;49:687-689.
Stone LA, Smith ME, Albert PS, et al. Blood brain barrier disruption as measured by contrast enhanced MRI in patients with mild relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis: relationship to course, gender and age. Neurology 1995;45:1122-1126.
Kappos L, Stadt D, Ratzka M, et al. Magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of treatment in multiple sclerosis. Neuroradiology 1988;30:299-302.
Kastrukoff LF, Oger JJF, Hashimoto SA, et al. Systemic lymphoblastoid interferon therapy in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis. I. Clinical and MRI evaluation. Neurology 1990;40:479-486.
Koopmans RA, Li DKB, Zhoa GJ, Redekop WK, Paty DW. MRI assessment of cyclosporine therapy of MS in a multicenter trial [abstract]. Neurology 1992;42(suppl 3):210.
Masaryk TJ, Modic MT, Geisenger MA, et al. Cervical myelopathy: a comparison of magnetic resonance and myelography. J Comp Assist Tomogr 1986;10:184-194.
Maravilla KR, Weintreb JC, Suss R, Nunally RL. Magnetic resonance demonstration of multiple sclerosis plaques in the cervical cord. AJR 1985;144:381-385.
Miller DH, McDonald WI, Blumhardt LD, et al. Magnetic resonance imaging in isolated noncompressive spinal cord syndromes. Ann Neurol 1987;22:714-723.
Honig LS, Sheremata WA. Magnetic resonance imaging of spinal cord lesions in multiple sclerosis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1989;52:459-466.
Turano G, Jones SJ, Miller DH, Du Boulay GH, Kakigi R, McDonald WI. Correlation of SEP abnormalities with brain and cervical cord MRI in multiple sclerosis. Brain 1991;114:663-681.
Larsson EM, Holtas S, Nilsson O. Gd-DTPA-enhanced MR in suspected spinal multiple sclerosis. AJNR 1989;10:1071-1076.
Wiebe S, Lee DH, Karlik SJ, et al. Serial cranial and spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging in multiple sclerosis. Ann Neurol 1992;32:643-650.
Kidd D, Thompson AJ, Kendall BE, Miller DH, McDonald WI. A serial MRI study of the brain and spinal cord in progressive multiple sclerosis [abstract]. J Neurol 1994;241(suppl 1):S151.
Kurtzke JF. Rating neurological impairment in multiple sclerosis an expanded disability scale. Neurology 1983;33:1444-1452.
Bland JM, Altman DG. Statistic methods for assessing agreement between two methods of clinical measurement. Lancet 1986;1:307-310.
Miller DH, Barkhof F, Nauta JJP. Gadolinium enhancement increased the sensitivity of MRI in detecting disease activity in multiple sclerosis. Brain 1993;116:1077-1094.
Thompson AJ, Miller D, Youl B, et al. Serial gadolinium-enhanced MRI in relapsing/remitting multiple sclerosis of varying disease duration. Neurology 1992;42:60-63.
Matthews PM, Francis G, Antel J, Arnold DL. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy for metabolic characterization of plaques in multiple sclerosis. Neurology 1991;41:1251-1226.
Herbal Medicine Week 2018: Treating Skin Conditions - GINA WEBLEY MNIMH MEDICAL HERBALIST
Herbal Medicine Week 2018: Treating Skin Conditions
The treatment of skin conditions illustrates the benefits of using herbal medicine and the approach taken by Medical Herbalists. Skin disorders often result from an underlying hidden imbalance in the body. Medical Herbalists take a holistic approach and aim to treat the root of the problem as well as the symptoms.
The skin is a complex organ with numerous functions including protection against infection, control of temperature and excretion.
The skin connects us with the external physical environment and is responsible for maintaining a stable internal environment. A healthy skin is vital for maintaining a healthy body.
The skin can reflect what is happening inside the body. Changes in the function of the liver, digestion, and immune system can manifest themselves as skin disease. The skin also has nerve endings and is very sensitive to the effects of stress and emotions.
Most skin disorders are complex and result from a combination of external and internal factors. For example, eczema can result from environmental, dietary, and emotional factors combined with an immune imbalance.
Diagnosis and treatment of skin rashes and inflammation requires a holistic approach in which all aspects of someone's health and external environment are considered.
Orthodox medical treatment of skin conditions is very limited and generally not specific to the diagnosis, limited to topical treatment, and often just suppresses the symptoms.
The most common orthodox treatment is topical steroids which provide temporary relief but do not address the underlying cause or provide a real cure. They can also have serious side effects such as thinning of the skin, bruising, and changes in pigmentation.
The holistic approach taken by a Medical Herbalist considers each individual case to establish possible external and internal causes of their skin condition. The aim of the herbal treatment is to support the natural functioning of the skin and other organs.
Herbal treatment has two approaches. The first is the use of topical preparations to soothe irritation of the skin, fight infection, reduce inflammation, and accelerate healing. The second is the use of internal oral mixes of herbs.
The internal preparation of herbs will depend on each individual case but will aim to cleanse and improve elimination of metabolic waste, reduce inflammation, fight any infection, improve the functioning of the liver and digestive system, support the immune system, reduce the effect of stress, balance hormones, and aid healing.
This approach of a Medical Herbalist is much more comprehensive than that offered by orthodox medicine. It is more likely to cure the skin condition, improve the general health of the body, and is associated with far few side effects.
Rehab Recovery Centers in Artesia, California for Drugs & Alcohol, Artesia | Rehab Recovery Center
Recovery Options For Drug & Alcohol in Artesia, California
Drug and alcohol rehabs in Artesia, California take many different forms and approaches to meet the different needs of various individuals. With a wide variety of different treatment approaches out there, it can be challenging to determine which is right for you. When it comes to levels of care, inpatient and outpatient are the two most popular. Some rehab centers also have certain specialties, such as treating co-occurring disorders or offering medication-assisted treatment. Rehab centers may also use various approaches, as some provide evidence-based therapies while others are faith-based. Choosing the right treatment provider is vital because rehab is what will set your foundation for sobriety. Here is everything you need to know about your drug and alcohol rehab options in Artesia, California to help you make a more informed decision.
By offering 24/7 supervision, medical care, and detox services, inpatient rehab programs offer the highest level of care when it comes to substance abuse treatment. Inpatient rehab refers to a residential treatment facility where patients reside for varying lengths of time depending on their treatment needs. Most inpatient programs have a treatment length of 30 days, however, some will offer extended programs that last 60-90 days or several months. There are many factors that determine how long your treatment program will be, including the existence of any mental health conditions, the severity of your addiction, and whether or not you've been to rehab before. During rehab, patients are held accountable with a strict daily routine as well as a variety of science-backed therapies to help them get sober. People with severe substance use disorders or co-occurring mental or physical health conditions are best suited at a residential rehab program. Outpatient rehab programs in Artesia, California offer addiction treatment services throughout the week while patients live at home or in a sober living. These programs offer highly flexible schedules so that people who have to go to work, class, or take care of their families are able to do so while receiving treatment for substance abuse. Outpatient rehab in Artesia, California varies in length greatly depending on the type of program and the individual's needs. Outpatient programs in Artesia, California may last anywhere from one month up to a year. Outpatient programs use the same treatments as inpatient programs do, but they place a heavy focus on relapse prevention and support groups. As a less structured option, outpatient treatment is best for people with mild addictions or those who simply cannot go to an inpatient program.
Approximately 50% of people with addiction or alcoholism also suffer from a co-occurring mental health condition. Although some people develop an addiction as a result of self-medicating a mental illness, others abuse substances for so long that they develop a mental health condition. Mental health conditions, like depression, anxiety, and bipolar disorder require diagnosis and treatment throughout the rehabilitation process. Dual diagnosis treatment programs in Artesia, California are able to provide simultaneous care for both addiction and mental illness. People who struggle with co-occurring disorders who fail to receive treatment for mental health run a high risk of relapse. Co-occurring disorders are best treated on an inpatient basis, however, some outpatient programs will also offer dual diagnosis treatment. Dual diagnosis programs use medication therapy, behavioral therapy, and support groups to help people struggling with mental illness and addiction. Some drug and alcohol rehab centers in Artesia, California offer a faith-based approach.
How to Choose the Right Drug and Alcohol Rehab in Artesia, California
Everyone has different needs, so once you've learned about your treatment options, the next step is to figure out which type of rehab is best for you. For instance, if you have suffered from clinical depression for several years and began drinking to cope, you can benefit from a dual diagnosis program. If you are a college student who can't put your classes on hold to go to a residential program, then outpatient rehab is the next-best choice. Considering your time constraints, personal obligations, needs, and beliefs will help you narrow down your options and choose the right rehab. To choose the right rehab, consider your personal needs, beliefs, and responsibilities. Another important factor to consider is the cost of rehab. Many inpatient and outpatient rehab programs in Artesia, California are partially or fully covered by insurance. You can simply ask your insurance provider for a list of drug and alcohol treatment providers who are in-network with your plan. You can also contact an admissions coordinator who can run your insurance, find a rehab provider, and give you a breakdown of the estimated costs. Finding the right rehab center can be a confusing and overwhelming task.
The best place to start is by identifying your treatment needs and narrowing down your options. If you aren't sure what type of rehab is right for you, that's okay! It isn't easy to figure these things out by yourself. The best way to make sure you receive the right treatment is to speak with a trusted addiction specialist. If you or someone you know is struggling with addiction, call us today and one of our treatment professionals will help you find a drug and alcohol rehab in Artesia, California.
How To Find A Drug Rehab in Artesia, California
Deciding to attend professional drug rehab to get sober is one of the most influential choices an individual could make. Coping with drug addiction is difficult, as it impacts each area of a person's life. Finding the right drug rehab in Artesia, California can be difficult. With this in mind, we have created a complete guide on finding a drug rehab in your area. If you or a loved one are trying to find a drug rehab in your area, continue reading to learn about what you should look for.
When deciding on a drug addiction treatment center, you should always pay attention to whether they utilize evidence-based addiction treatment modalities. For example, treatment centers should utilize evidence-based addiction therapies such as cognitive-behavioral therapy, medication-assisted treatment, and motivational programs that reward patients who are moving forward in their recovery. One of the most important aspects of a drug rehab facility is whether they are certified through the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF) or any other distinguished agency. With that being said, any reputable drug rehab facility in Artesia, California will be properly licensed and certified by the required parties in the program's location. Organizations that provide certification or accreditation for rehab centers regularly review and inspect facilities for quality and care standards. Also, rehab centers who are certified under the Joint Commission certification are even better, as this is considered the highest level of accreditation for addiction treatment centers. Another thing to consider is whether the addiction treatment facility includes a holistic program, focusing on healing both the mind and body as a whole. Drug rehab centers that include inpatient, outpatient, and aftercare programs are considered highly effective in promoting long-term recovery, making them the most effective facilities available.
When looking for drug rehab in Artesia, California individuals should first decide which form of program they want to attend. People dependent upon a substance that includes severe symptoms of withdrawal, such as alcohol or opiates, will need to begin treatment that offers inpatient medical detox. Inpatient, otherwise known as residential rehab, provides patients with 24/7 medical care and psychiatric support, allowing individuals to detox safely. If an individual attempts to detox on their own, they may be at risk of developing life-threatening medical conditions due to the untreated symptoms of withdrawal. Individuals suffering from mild to moderate addictions may attend partial hospitalization (PHP) or intensive outpatient programs (IOP). These programs do not require individuals to reside on-campus and are usually cheaper than inpatient treatment. These programs are not recommended for individuals with severe addictions, or people who frequently relapse. If a person suffers from co-occurring disorders as well as addiction, they should always attend a dual diagnosis treatment program. Dual diagnosis drug rehabs in Artesia, California focus on treating a patient's addiction as well as any additional mental health issues, allowing them to make a full recovery.
How to Choose a Rehab Center in Artesia, California
After finding a specific treatment center you are interested in, there are a few questions to ask yourself before making any commitments. While each treatment plan will differ depending on the patient's individual needs, there are a few basic aspects of treatment that must be included. The drug rehab must include mental health diagnosis and treatment, education about addiction and healthy coping mechanisms, systems of support, family therapy programs, and counseling within their treatment plan. To put it simply, addiction treatment plans should include the tools needed to provide patients with everything they need to recover from addiction. Upon entering drug rehab, patients should feel supported and comfortable with staff members and within the treatment environment. To continue, the type of aftercare a drug rehab in Artesia, California provides is extremely important. Upon completing addiction treatment, former patients will have to face various stressors in their work, school, home, or social lives. Unfortunately, the chance of relapse is the highest within the first few weeks following the completion of addiction treatment. Reputable drug rehab facilities in Artesia, California will include aftercare programs to prevent patients from relapsing during early-recovery. Types of aftercare may include 12-step programs, support groups, dual-diagnosis support, one-on-one, and group counseling, medication management, and sober living housing programs. When a treatment center does not include aftercare, they should at least provide patients with referrals to outside aftercare resources to promote long-term sobriety.
Get Connected With a Drug Rehab in Artesia, California Today
Finding a reputable addiction treatment facility while dealing with the effects of drug abuse may be extremely difficult. Finding a drug rehab to attend in Artesia, California becomes much easier after becoming educated on what makes a specific program more effective than others. Our treatment center prides itself on providing each client with a full continuum of care as well as highly individualized plans-of-action, ensuring patient success. Additionally, not only do we treat addiction, but we also address the underlying causes of drug abuse as well as any co-occurring disorders our clients may suffer from. In doing so, our patients are able to make a full recovery and achieve long-term sobriety. Individuals in need of drug rehab in Artesia, California should contact us today to find out more about our drug addiction treatment programs.
Rehab Recovery Centers in Artesia, California
How To Find The Right Rehab in Artesia, California
If you or your loved one is struggling with substance use disorder in Artesia, California finding the right addiction treatment center should be your number one priority. There are numerous factors to remember when comparing which treatment center you have to attend. Various elements consist of a team of qualified professionals, application structure, remedy methods, and the rehab facility's typical environment. If you want to avoid relapse, it is important that you find the best substance abuse treatment for you.
Available Treatment Services in Artesia, California
Choosing the right rehabilitation facility in Artesia, California will require you to research the most appropriate substance abuse treatment services. For instance, if you are addicted to benzodiazepines, you will want to find a treatment program that addresses that addiction specifically. Not only should you find a program that treats your specific addiction, but you also want to be sure the facility offers treatment for any dual diagnosis issues you may be suffering from as well. Medically supervised detox has been proven to be an effective step in achieving long-term sobriety. Withdrawal management is a necessary step in the drug treatment process. Due to the painful withdrawal symptoms associated with addiction, many individuals are fearful of seeking treatment. A medically supervised detox program includes around the clock monitoring to ensure the safety of each recovering addict. People with substance abuse problems are up to 3 times more likely to have a mental illness than the general population. The most effective form of treatment for co-occurring disorders is dual diagnosis rehabilitation. Rehabilitation programs specializing in co-occurring disorders, address the addiction as well as anxiety, depression, and other mental health disorders. Most importantly, an individual should seek a dual diagnosis treatment program to address their substance use disorder as well as their mental health issues. Choosing inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation in Artesia, California is a key component of choosing the best treatment program for you. Rehab facilities that offer 30-day inpatient programs allow an individual to reside on campus while attending treatment. Each inpatient program is different and the length of stay may vary. Outpatient rehab may be effective if this is your first attempt at rehab or if you have children or other responsibilities to attend to while enrolled in rehab. Outpatient treatment allows flexibility for individuals to live at home, work, and take care of their families while receiving addiction treatment. If you have an addiction to opiates, then medication-assisted treatment might be right for you. These medications are meant to be utilized in conjunction with other forms of therapy and holistic treatment options.
Therapists and other drug and alcohol rehab staff members play a major role in contributing to the patient's rehab experience. Experienced therapists and medical staff are key to the overall professionalism of a quality drug and alcohol rehabilitation program in Artesia, California. It is important that the staff members are experienced and professional, but also compassionate and empathetic. Another important aspect of rehabilitation is therapy and you want to make sure you are receiving appropriate time with your therapist. It is always a good idea to meet with the staff when choosing a rehab facility so you can be informed of their qualifications and areas of expertise.
Video testimonials and cited reviews of a substance abuse treatment program will give you the best idea of what to expect in rehab. . Rehab websites and Google My Business listings are the best places to find client reviews on their experience in rehab. If a friend or family member has recommended a rehab facility, it is always a good idea to take a look at those first. Familial encouragement is one of the most important factors in an individual seeking addiction treatment. Building a foundation that cultivates long term sobriety is dependent on establishing strong sober support. Many family members of addicts are unsure of how to adequately support and encourage their loved one's decision to get sober. Quality rehab facilities should encourage family-based therapy and family involvement throughout the entire recovery process.
Deciding on the Best Rehabilitation Program for You in Artesia, California
Educating yourself of available treatment options and program specifics will help you make the best decision when choosing a rehab program. Consulting with a rehab facility and asking important questions is a necessary step in choosing a rehab in Artesia, California. While an over-the-phone evaluation may not give you a complete treatment plan, it can help you develop an understanding of what kind of rehab is necessary. Choosing a rehab that is specific to your individual needs is the first step towards healing.
When you begin seeking help for an addiction, you may find that there are many treatment options available. Sometimes, you may become frustrated while trying to decide which of the many rehab programs are best suited for you. Because of the many drug and alcohol rehab options available in Artesia, California, you should research each program before making a decision. Finding the right addiction treatment program can be difficult. Addiction treatment comes in many different forms, including inpatient, outpatient, dual diagnosis, as well as 12-step oriented programs. If you are looking for rehab in Artesia, California, it is vital that you educate yourself on the varying types of programs available. Continue reading in order to learn about all of you or your loved one's rehab options in Artesia, California.
Inpatient Addiction Treatment in Artesia, California
Inpatient addiction treatment is a form of rehab in which an individual resides in a residential treatment facility for a specified amount of time. Inpatient addiction programs allow individuals to receive care and support on a constant basis. During inpatient substance abuse treatment in Artesia, California, individuals are able to escape from everyday stress, allowing them to fully focus on their recovery. Also, individuals attending an inpatient program will be provided with a safe and drug-free environment where they will be surrounded by other recovering individuals. Inpatient treatment programs in Artesia, California run by licensed and experienced staff as well as addiction treatment specialists who provide evidence-based addiction therapies. Inpatient drug and alcohol treatment allows individuals to undergo a treatment plan that has been tailored to their specific needs. Inpatient drug treatment programs typically include counseling, support groups, behavioral therapy, and a detox program when necessary. Inpatient treatment programs allow individuals to recover from every aspect of their addiction due to the combination of treatment modalities utilized.
Outpatient Treatment in Artesia, California
Outpatient treatment programs are similar to inpatient rehab, with the only difference being the inability to reside at the center. Typically, outpatient addiction treatment programs require patients to visit the center for 10 to 12 hours a week. In Artesia, California outpatient substance abuse programs utilize evidence-based individual and group therapies, substance abuse education, and educational activities that teach vital coping mechanisms. Typically, individuals attending outpatient treatment have outside responsibilities they must maintain or are using this form of rehab as part of a long-term treatment plan. Individuals in need of substance abuse treatment in Artesia, California may choose an outpatient treatment program over an inpatient setting due to a variety of reasons. For example, individuals often are attracted to outpatient treatment due to the ability to maintain a career, have less restrictive rules during treatment, and due to outpatient programs being less costly than an inpatient program. However, one of the downsides of outpatient rehab programs is that patients do not reside on campus, meaning they have more of an opportunity to relapse. Despite the controversy, outpatient addiction treatment has been found effective when patients display full dedication for their recovery.
Dual Diagnosis Treatment in Artesia, California
Dual diagnosis suggests that someone has both a mental health condition and a reliance on a substance. It is extremely common for individuals to suffer from a dual diagnosis, therefore addiction treatment centers have begun incorporating this into their treatment modalities. Because of the severity of a dual diagnosis, it is crucial for individuals suffering from this issue to receive treatment for both conditions simultaneously. On the off chance that you, a friend, or family member have been showing manifestations of a dual diagnosis, it may be vital to attend a dual diagnosis rehab program in Artesia, California. In order to accomplish a full recovery as an individual with a dual diagnosis, an alternate form of treatment is needed when compared with an individual who is exclusively healing from an addiction. Dual diagnosis treatment centers in Artesia, California provide patients with a full mental health assessment, an accurate diagnosis, methods to treat all disorders as well as addictions, and long-term assistance. As a result of this, patients are able to fully recover as well as learn how to manage both their mental health condition and their substance use disorder. Importantly, dual diagnosis rehab centers in Artesia, California provide patients with individualized treatment plans that fit their unique needs, allowing them to build a strong foundation of recovery.
12-Step Focused Addiction Treatment in Artesia, California
Various substance abuse treatment programs utilize some assortment of the 12-step addiction recovery approach throughout the duration treatment. Due to its effectiveness, a majority of drug and alcohol treatment centers utilize the 12-step addiction approach. In order for better understanding, the 12-step addiction recovery method is a 12-process that teaches individuals how to cope with and recover from addiction, compulsion, or other behavioral problems. Drug and alcohol rehab programs in Artesia, California use the 12-steps during treatment to permit patients to become liberated from their addictions just as comprehend how to appropriately conform to step by step pressure and duty. A successful 12-step addiction treatment approach heals more than just addiction, it likewise addresses different life battles that regularly add to the substance abuse. Common examples of struggles that can perpetuate addiction include financial problems, abuse, housing that doesn't support clients in recovery, and mental issues. Fortunately, addiction treatment programs in Artesia, California often incorporate the 12-step methods in order to help individuals learn how to cope with issues similar to those previously mentioned. Most importantly, Addiction and alcoholism treatment centers that join the basic beliefs and approach spread out in the 12-steps help individuals to recuperate from all pieces of their addictions and additional issues.
Finding the Right Addiction Treatment Program for you in Artesia, California
Deciding which form of addiction treatment to attend in Artesia, California can be extremely difficult. Due to this, you must consider a number of things before deciding on a form of addiction treatment to attend. For example, if you have an extraordinary addiction that causes you to battle each day, you may find that inpatient drug or alcohol treatment is commonly helpful for you. Whichever addiction treatment program you choose to attend, it is fundamental that you become fully involved in your recovery and treatment process, as this will procure the best outcomes. If you are seeking drug or alcohol addiction rehab in Artesia, California a wide range of program options are available, including inpatient, outpatient, dual diagnosis, and 12-step recovery-based programs. At Rehab Recovery Centers, we take pride in prioritizing our patient's needs and comfort by creating individualized treatment plans and incorporating an array of substance abuse treatment programs. In order to learn more about our addiction treatment options, call us today at 888-200-0376.
Submitting Study Datasets for Vaccines to the Office of Vaccines Research and Review Guidance for Industry- Technical Specifications Document 20Dec2019
Considerations for the Development of Dried Plasma Products Intended for Transfusion Guidance for Industry (Published 19Dec2019)
COMPLIANCE POLICY GUIDE (CPG), Chapter 2 – Biologics (13Dec2019)
Requesting FDA Feedback on Combination Products Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff DRAFT GUIDANCE (Published 23Dec2019)
Importation of Certain FDA2 Approved Human Prescription Drugs, 3 Including Biological Products, under 4 Section 801(d)(1)(B) of the Federal 5 Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act: 6 Draft Guidance for Industry (Published 23Dec2019)
Demonstrating Substantial Evidence of Effectiveness for Human Drug and Biological Products Guidance for Industry DRAFT GUIDANCE (Published 20Dec2019)
Bridging for Drug-Device and Biologic-Device Combination Products Guidance for Industry DRAFT GUIDANCE (18Dec2019)
Qualification Process for Drug Development Tools Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff DRAFT GUIDANCE (Published 13Dec2019)
FDARA Implementation Guidance for Pediatric Studies of Molecularly Targeted Oncology Drugs: Amendments to Sec. 505B of the FD&C Act Guidance for Industry DRAFT GUIDANCE (Published 12Dec2019)
Development of Locally Applied Corticosteroid Products for the Short-Term Treatment of Symptoms Associated with Internal or External Hemorrhoids Guidance for Industry DRAFT GUIDANCE (Published 09Dec2019)
Interstitial Cystitis/Bladder Pain Syndrome (IC/BPS): Establishing Effectiveness of Drugs for Treatment Guidance for Industry DRAFT GUIDANCE (Published 04Dec2019)
Regulatory Explainer: Everything You Need to Know About FDA's Priority Review Vouchers (Published 20Dec2019)
WHO Prequalifies its First Biosimilar (Published 19Dec2019)
The Brave new World of Social Media: Regulatory Perspective on Hashtags and Facebook Messenger (18Dec2019)
Drug Importation Plans: Lots of Exclusions, Unclear Timeline (Published 18Dec2019)
FDA Supports Budget Bill's Changes to Chemically Synthesized Polypeptides (Published 18Dec2019)
Drug Development Tools: FDA Drafts Guidance on Qualification Process (Published 13Dec2019)
Hahn Wins Senate Confirmation to be 24th FDA Commissioner (Published 12Dec2019)
When FDA Requires Pediatric Studies for New Cancer Drug Submissions: New Draft Guidance (Published 12Dec2019)
USMCA Drops Biologic Exclusivity Provisions for Mexico and Canada in Final Deal (10Dec2019)
Global Pediatric Drug Development (Published 10Dec2019)
US Biosimilar Launches About to Turn a Corner (Published 09Dec2019)
Optimizing the Review Process of Advertising and Promotional Communications (Published 09Dec2019)
FDA Drafts Recommendations for IC/BSP Drug Development (Published 04Dec2019)
Form FDA 1572: Challenges and Opportunities (Published 03Dec2019)
FDA Finalizes Guidance on Adaptive Trial Designs (Published 02Dec2019)
EC Explains What it Means to Authorize Clinical Trials With Conditions (Published 02Dec2019)
The Transformation of Digital Health: What it Means for Regulatory Professionals (Published 02Dec2019)
Is there any hope when kidney cancer has spread into the lungs and bone? - Answered by top doctors on HealthTap
Stage 4 kidney ca. 5 year survival rate for kidney cancer spread to other organs ( st 4) is 0-20%. This has somewhat improved a little with approval of at least 7 new treatments over last few years. Certain characteristics of the patient & the cancer help to categorize patients into low, intermediate & high risk groups for poor survival.
Possibly. Advanced kidney cancer is difficult to control, but there have never been as many options for potentially effective treatment as we have now. Depending on the type of kidney cancer (clear cell), sometimes dramatic responses to new medications ("targeted therapy") can be seen with measurable improvements in survival. Clinical trials are available at major medical centers. Sadly, cures remain rare.
YES. It is well known that kidney cancer spreads to bones. In the last few years many new treatments have been introduced for a very uncommon cancer. There are two types of treatments. 1. Immunotherapy ( interferon, interleukin-2), 2. Targeted therapy (sorafenib, sunitinib, temsirulimus, everolimus, bevacizumab, pazopanib, axitinib). Yes there is hope. Read more...
Yes with caution. It's a serious condition when the kidney cancer has spreaded to the bone. There are quite a bit of newer drugs that blocks certain pathways in the cancer cells and thus achieving cell kill and cancer shrinkage. Most of the time, the intention is to shrink the cancer slow down the disease process and maintain quality of life. Please consult with your medical oncologist. Read more...
Sometimes. By ; large kidney cancer no longer confined to kidney is not good. Occasionally a kidney cancer patient may have a solitary bone metastasis which can be remove in toto. Such patients, with chemotherapy ; radiation, have a slight chance for a cure, but this is not the usual case. There is not much hope if kidney cancer has spread through flank or back ; into a rib. Best managed at a cancer center. Read more...
Discuss with. oncologist if your brother gives his permission. Prognosis is always worse when it is metastasized. Best wishes. Read more...
Dr. Myron Arlen Answered Jul. 16, 2016
No spread by spill. Tumor cells spread when the lesion has the potential to spread and not via spill. When lesions of uterus curetted and are found circulating , these cells don't take. If lesion in hip bone, this tumor has spread from primary site and more likely has also spread to other sites prior to surgery. Food drugs available to control metastasis. Read more...
Often life limiting. For kidney cancer that has spread (stage IV), median overall survival is ~ 1 year. In other words, 1/2 of people live longer than 1 year, and 1/2 people live shorter than 1 year. With treatment, median overall survival is now ~ 3 years. In other words, 1/2 of people live longer than 3 years, and 1/2 of people liver shorter than 3 years. Read more...
Not directly. Fluid in the lungs may be related to fluid overload if the kidneys are not functioning, may be related to coincidental heart disease, or may be related to inflammation in the lung, from pneumonia or blood clot. Kidney cancer may be associated with an increased risk of blood clot which could break off and travel to the lung. If there is shortness of breath or pain in the chest, see md immediately. Read more...
Dr. Sewa Legha, Punjab University, Christian Medical College Answered Oct. 28, 2015
Need evaluation/Test. The lung nodules may be related to kidney cancer. The best way to find out is to see if they have increased in size over the last 18 months. This can be done with a repeat Chest X-ray or CT scan(same test which showed the nodules first time should be repeated and compared to the original Test). This will provide you an answer. Read more...
Abstract: The worldwide fight against COVID-19 is a battle in progress. As long as its antidote is still unknown to man, each country is left to formulate its strategy to combat the pandemic. In the Philippines, designated COVID-19 hospitals are tasked to receive admissions of positive cases including the possible ones. But how should these designated hospitals effectively respond to the crisis' This qualitative case study identified the best practices of a COVID-19 designated hospital in Southern Philippines. The results show the following initiatives of the facility: provision of material support for frontliners, efficient donations management, calibration of medical personnel on proper triaging, designating Southern Philippines Medical Center as the COVID-19 hospital in Davao City, regular COVID-testing of the medical frontliners, the conduct of free debriefing for medical frontliners, facility expansion, and seamless collaboration between law enforcement, investigators, and health authorities. A government report showed that this facility is effective in managing COVID-19 cases. It is therefore imperative that other designated hospitals in the country should replicate the best practices in their facility. Keywords: COVID-19, pandemic, combatting, best management practices, designated hospital, Southern Philippines
Abstract: Many policy makers and managers are yet to know the role that organisational culture play with regards to knowledge management and employee discretionary behaviour. It is based on this premise that this study unveils the curtain behind the role of workplace culture on the relationship between knowledge management and extra-role behaviour. Twenty ICT firms operating in the Southern part of Nigeria were surveyed using simple random sampling technique. Cross sectional research survey was employed. Copies of questionnaire were used to collected data from the respondents’. Face validity was used to ascertain the validity of instrument while Cronbach α was used to ascertain the reliability of the instrument. Kendall Coefficient of Concordance was employed to analyse the hypotheses in conjunction with Pearson Partial Correlation for moderation analysis. This study found that corporate culture moderates the relationship between knowledge management and extra-role behaviour. This study concludes that knowledge management that is measured in terms of knowledge acquisition, knowledge sharing, knowledge storage and knowledge application enhances extra-role behaviour in ICT firms in Port Harcourt, Nigeria. This study recommends that managers of information and communication technology firms should embrace knowledge management in their workplaces to promote extra-role behaviour amongst its employees.
