How To Sell Cbd - What Is CBD
Table of ContentsDoes Cbd Get You High And How Does It Make You Feel?What Does Cbd Feel Like? – A Guide For New UsersDoes Cbd Do Anything? – Cbd Effects – Cbd – TanasiWhat Is Cbd? And What Does Cbd Oil Really Do? – GreatistDoes Cbd Really Work For Pain? – LifehackerI Took Cbd Oil Every Day For My Anxiety—here's My ExperienceCbd Oil For Dogs: What Is It And What Does It Do?Do Topical Cbd Products Work? – Us NewsCbd Oil Benefits: How To Use Cbd To Boost Your Health …
Cannabidiol is a popular natural solution utilized for numerous typical ailments. Better called CBD, it is among over 100 chemical substances known as cannabinoids found in the marijuana or marijuana plant, Marijuana sativa (). Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is the main psychedelic cannabinoid discovered in marijuana, and causes the feeling of getting "high" that's often connected with marijuana – How To Sell Cbd.
This quality makes CBD an attractive option for those who are looking for relief from discomfort and other symptoms without the mind-altering results of marijuana or specific pharmaceutical drugs. CBD oil is made by drawing out CBD from the marijuana plant, then diluting it with a carrier oil like coconut or hemp seed oil – How To Sell Cbd.
Here are seven health advantages of CBD oil that are backed by clinical evidence. More just recently, scientists have discovered that particular elements of cannabis, consisting of CBD, are responsible for its pain-relieving impacts.
Studies have actually revealed that CBD might help in reducing persistent discomfort by affecting endocannabinoid receptor activity, minimizing inflammation and communicating with neurotransmitters (). For instance, one research study in rats found that CBD injections lowered pain response to surgical cut, while another rat research study discovered that oral CBD treatment substantially lowered sciatic nerve discomfort and inflammation (, ).
An oral spray called Sativex, which is a combination of THC and CBD, is authorized in several nations to treat pain related to multiple sclerosis. One research study of 47 people with several sclerosis analyzed the effects of taking Sativex for one month. The participants experienced enhancements in pain, walking, and muscle convulsions. How To Sell Cbd.
Another study found that Sativex significantly enhanced pain during movement, discomfort at rest and sleep quality in 58 individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (). CBD, particularly incombination with THC, might work in lowering pain associated withdiseases like numerous sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. 2. Could Minimize Stress And Anxiety and Depression, Stress and anxiety and depression are typical mental health disorders that can have devastating impacts on health and wellness.
What's more, medications like benzodiazepines can be addictive and might cause drug abuse (). CBD oil has revealed promise as a treatment for both anxiety and stress and anxiety, leading many who cope with these disorders to end up being interested in this natural technique. In one Brazilian research study, 57 males got either oral CBD or a placebo 90 minutes prior to they went through a simulated public speaking test.
The placebo, a 150-mg dosage of CBD, and a 600-mg dosage of CBD had little to no effect on stress and anxiety (). CBD oil has even been used to safely treat sleeping disorders and stress and anxiety in children with trauma (). CBD has also revealed antidepressant-like impacts in numerous animal studies (, ).
Using CBD has been shownto reduce stress and anxiety and anxiety in both human and animal research studies. One research study looked at the effects of CBD and THC in 177 people with cancer-related pain who did not experience relief from pain medication.
CBD may likewise help reduce chemotherapy-induced nausea and throwing up, which are among the most common chemotherapy-related side impacts for those with cancer (). Though there are drugs that aid with these stressful signs, they are sometimes inadequate, leading some people to seek options. A study of 16 individuals going through chemotherapy found that a one-to-one mix of CBD and THC administered via mouth spray reduced chemotherapy-related queasiness and vomiting better than standard treatment alone (). How To Sell Cbd.
For instance, one test-tube study discovered that concentrated CBD caused cell death in human breast cancer cells (). Another study showed that CBD inhibited the spread of aggressive breast cancer cells in mice (). Nevertheless, these are test-tube and animal research studies, so they can only suggest what may work in individuals – How To Sell Cbd.
Though CBD has beenshown to help in reducing signs related to cancer and cancer treatment, and mayeven have cancer-fighting properties, more research is required to assess itsefficacy and safety. Acne is a common skin condition that impacts more than 9% of the population (). It is believed to be triggered by a number of aspects, including genetics, germs, underlying inflammation and the overproduction of sebum, an oily secretion made by sebaceous glands in the skin (, 23).
One test-tube study found that CBD oil avoided sebaceous gland cells from producing excessive sebum, put in anti-inflammatory actions and avoided the activation of "pro-acne" agents like inflammatory cytokines (). Another study had similar findings, concluding that CBD may be an effective and safe method to treat acne, thanks in part to its impressive anti-inflammatory qualities ().
CBD might havebeneficial impacts on acne due to its anti-inflammatory qualities and itsability to control the overproduction of sebum from the sebaceous glands. 5. May Have Neuroprotective Characteristics, Scientist believe that CBD's ability to act on the endocannabinoid system and other brain signaling systems might provide advantages for those with neurological disorders (How To Sell Cbd).
Though research study in this location is still fairly new, several research studies have actually shown appealing outcomes. Sativex, an oral spray including CBD and THC, has been shown to be a safe and efficient method to lower muscle spasticity in individuals with multiple sclerosis. One study found that Sativex reduced convulsions in 75% of 276 people with multiple sclerosis who were experiencing muscle spasticity that was resistant to medications ().
3 grams of CBD oil per pound (25 g/kg) of body weight. One more study discovered that CBD oil considerably lowered seizure activity in children with Dravet syndrome, a complicated youth epilepsy disorder, compared to a placebo (). It's essential to note that some people in both these research studies experienced unfavorable reactions associated with CBD treatment, such as convulsions, fever and tiredness.
For example, several studies have shown that treatment with CBD improved lifestyle and sleep quality for individuals with Parkinson's disease (, ) – How To Sell Cbd. In addition, animal and test-tube studies have actually revealed that CBD might reduce swelling and aid avoid the neurodegeneration connected with Alzheimer's illness (). In one long-lasting study, researchers provided CBD to mice genetically inclined to Alzheimer's disease, finding that it helped avoid cognitive decline ().
CBD wasalso revealed to reduce the development of Alzheimer's disease in test-tube andanimal studies. Could Benefit Heart Health, Current research study has actually linked CBD with numerous benefits for the heart and circulatory system, including the ability to lower high blood pressure.
One current study dealt with 9 healthy men with one dosage of 600 mg of CBD oil and discovered it decreased resting blood pressure, compared to a placebo. The very same research study also offered the males tension tests that normally increase blood pressure. How To Sell Cbd. Interestingly, the single dose of CBD led the guys to experience a smaller high blood pressure increase than typical in response to these tests ().
Additionally, a number of animal studies have demonstrated that CBD might help in reducing the inflammation and cell death connected with cardiovascular disease due to its effective anti-oxidant and stress-reducing properties (How To Sell Cbd). For instance, one study discovered that treatment with CBD decreased oxidative tension and prevented heart damage in diabetic mice with cardiovascular disease ().
7 – How To Sell Cbd. A Number Of Other Potential Benefits, CBD has actually been studied for its role in treating a variety of health problems other than those described above. Though more research studies are required, CBD is thought to supply the following health benefits: Research studies recommend that CBD might assist peoplewith schizophrenia and other psychological disorders by minimizing psychotic symptoms ().
In rats, CBD has actually been shown to lower morphine reliance andheroin-seeking behavior (). In test-tube and animal research studies, CBD has demonstratedanti-tumor impacts. In animals, it has been shown to avoid the spread ofbreast, prostate, brain, colon and lung cancer (). In diabetic mice, treatment with CBD decreased the occurrence of diabetes by 56% and significantlyreduced inflammation ().
CBD is typically well tolerated and considered safe, it might cause unfavorable reactions in some people. Side effects noted in studies consist of (): Diarrhea, Changes in hunger and weight, Fatigue, CBD is likewise known to interact with several medications.
This is specifically important if you take medications or supplements that come with a "grapefruit caution." Both grapefruit and CBD hinder cytochromes P450 (CYPs), a group of enzymes that are very important to drug metabolic process (42). One study carried out on mice showed that CBD-rich marijuana extracts have the prospective to trigger liver toxicity.
CBD isgenerally thought about safe, it can cause unfavorable reactions like diarrhea andfatigue in some people. CBD oil has actually been studied for its possible function in alleviating signs of numerous typical health concerns, including anxiety, depression, acne and heart disease.
There is much to be found out about the effectiveness and safety of CBD, results from recent research studies recommend that CBD might offer a safe, effective natural treatment for numerous health concerns – How To Sell Cbd. Hemp-derived CBD products (with less than 0.
Marijuana-derived CBD products are unlawful on the federal level, however are legal under some state laws. Check your state's laws and those of anywhere you travel. Remember that nonprescription CBD items are not FDA-approved, and might be incorrectly labeled.
CBD is an abbreviation for cannabinoid (How To Sell Cbd). Cannabinoid is a natural compound discovered in cannabis, likewise called marijuana, and also in hemp plants. Today, you can find CBD oil in capsules, oil bases for vaporizers, casts, food items, and beauty products such as bath bombs or creams. Unlike its cousin THC, CBD is not intoxicating or psychedelic.
Research into some of these claims is continuous, and there is still a lot about CBD that we don't understand however researchers are trying to discover out. Health Advantages Scientist are looking for answers when it comes to the complete potential of CBD.
The FDA approved the treatment for clients as young as two years of ages. Studies revealed it worked in comparison to a placebo in decreasing the frequency of seizures. Though we need more research, a 2015 medical journal review short article looked at CBD and its impact on multiple anxiety disorders, including generalized anxiety disorder, seasonal affective disorder, panic attack, and trauma.
Health Dangers Research surrounding CBD is ongoing, and there are lots of questions that researchers do not have the answers to yet, such as whether the methods of taking CBD effects the threats or effectiveness. Some typical methods of taking CBD consist of breathing in through a vaporizer, consuming in food, or taking orally as a pill.
Some of these dangers are controllable if taking CBD under the guidance of your doctor. Continued Throughout drug trials for Epidiolex, the FDA identified liver injury to be a negative effects of CBD (How To Sell Cbd). Indications of liver injury appeared on blood work used to find early issues with the liver.
If you are taking other medications, CBD can affect their effectiveness, and the dosage you are taking may need to be re-evaluated by your medical professional. Due to the fact that there is minimal research study on how CBD communicates with prescription drugs and with standard over-the-counter supplements, it is best to talk to your doctor prior to taking CBD if you are taking other medications.
Standard treatment, timely diagnosis can save rheumatic disease patients from disability
Standard treatment, timely diagnosis can save
rheumatic disease patients from disability
Successive Governments have failed to recognize the
mportance of rheumatology - Pervez Malik
LAHORE: SLE is a very serious disease which can affect any organ of the body but quick and correct diagnosis can help the lupus sufferers live a normal life. In fact standard treatment and timely diagnosis can save the rheumatic disease patients from disability. This was stated by the speakers at a public awareness session on rheumatic diseases which was a part of the international conference of Pakistan Society for Rheumatology held here from October 12-14th 2012. This session which was organized in collaboration with Mir Khalilur Rehman Memorial Society and Jang Group of Publications was very well attended by rheumatologists as well as patients who also availed this opportunity to consult the specialists.Mr. Pervez Malik MNA who is associated with Lahore Businessmen Association for the Rehabilitation of Disabled was the chief guest on this occasion.
Prof. Nighat Mir along with Dr.Muhammad Ahmad Saeed presenting
a mementoe to Ms. Shahima Rehman Chairperson of
Fatima Memorial System during the international
conference of Pakistan Society of Rheumatology
held at Lahore recently.
Mr. Pervez Malik in his speech said that successive governments in Pakistan have neglected rheumatology. It is sad that we do not have many centers where rheumatic patients can be treated. Now treatment for rheumatic diseases is available but it is very expensive. We must have more rheumatologists and improve this situation. PML (N) Government, he said, has made lot of investment in health sector and its impact will be visible in the days to come. He agreed that at present the standard of treatment is not desirable but he assured that government patronage will be there and the government will see if trained rheumatologists are appointed at all the major healthcare facilities in the country. He urged the University of Health Sciences to take it up and highlight the subject of rheumatology in undergraduate curriculum. We are providing some vocational training, education to the disabled people and the time has come that we must involve the community at large in managing diseases like tuberculosis, hypertension and diabetes mellitus. With the assistance of the community we have been successful to control dengue fever which was a major public health problem last year in the province. Disability affects not only the sufferers but the whole family; hence all efforts should be made to ensure timely diagnosis and appropriate treatment.
Prof. Nighat Mir in her welcome address said that rheumatic diseases can affect any body at any age. Rheumatic diseases can be treated provided they are diagnosed in time. While our chief guest Mr. Pervez Malik is working in rehabilitation of the disabled, we prevent these disabilities. At times aspiration of fluids from the joints or use of corticosteroid injections has to be used. Treatment is no doubt very expensive but there is a hope. Looking after these rheumatic disease patients, she said, is a team work. Pakistan Society for Rheumatology is busy educating the healthcare professionals. SLE affects young boys and girls but now lot of advances has taken place in the management of SLE which offers good results. Deficiency of calcium and Vitamin D is the major problem in rheumatic diseases which can be prevented. Similarly early diagnosis of gout and osteoarthritis gives satisfactory results and improves the quality of life of these patients. We have formed the Arthritis Care Foundation to help those who cannot afford expensive treatment. Prof. Nabiha Hassan former Principal of FJMC was a role model for us. We have just thirty rheumatologists as against over three thousand which we require. At present there is no rheumatology center in any of the public sector hospitals and only three centers are recognized for training. We need a team work to prevent these disabilities, she added.
Prof. Azra Arif founder President of PSR advised the patients not to give up medication. Rheumatic diseases are preventable but need regular treatment. Newer treatment options, she opined, are very expensive but they do give hope. Dr. Javed Malik President of PSR said that obesity was a major risk factor and weight reduction helps. Now knee replacements offers good results and improve the quality of life. Patients should not feel shy in using the stick which distributes the body weight. The patients should take care of their bones and be careful of drug interactions while they are on multiple medications. Dr. Mahfooz Alam from Karachi opined that exercise and dietary restrictions go together. Responding to various questions from the audience the panelists remarked that massage and different oils does provide some relief of pain. They have a complementary role in management of pain in joints. The early warning signs for rheumatic diseases include rashes and constant fever is a red flag. SLE patients can have ulcer in mouth, can have fever, weight loss. Responding to another question it was stated that hand surgery is possible but it is very expensive. The small joints in hand can be replaced. Some patients might complain of nerve damage due to injections which has to be looked into. Rheumatic diseases can be seen in children. Use of Vitamin D in diet is useful. Sometimes patients are getting treatment for tuberculosis though they are suffering from rheumatic diseases that is why correct diagnosis is extremely important.
Mrs. Rehman Chairperson of Fatima Memorial Hospital System in her brief address said that their institution was a perfect hospital. She commended Prof. Nighat Mir and her team for taking the initiative to start training of rheumatologists at the hospital. Prof. Humayoun Maqsood Principal of Fatima Memorial College of Medicine and Dentistry in his speech said that during the last century lot of research has been done which has proven that rheumatic diseases affect all organs of the body. Now many rheumatic diseases can be prevented and cured and complications, disabilities can be avoided. Some of these diseases may be managed through diet but it is important to make correct timely diagnosis and then initiate appropriate treatment.
Earlier some case histories of SLE patients were presented while a few of the SLE patients who were diagnosed in time and were now under treatment living a normal life were also presented. Famous artist Ms.Tahira Naqvi was also suffering from SLE and since the disease was diagnosed much late, she died at a very young age.
Slowly we are learning more about the level of risk Covid vaccines present — RT Op-ed
© Jeff J Mitchell - Pool /Getty Images
A US-based study has found a raised risk of myocarditis in the first week after vaccination against Covid-19. Rates of myocarditis have risen the most in teenage boys and young men, usually after the second vaccination dose.
The study, conducted by US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) researchers and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, examined reports of myocarditis after mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccination (i.e., Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna). Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, called the myocardium, and has been recognised as a rare side effect of the mRNA vaccines since last summer.
As the abstract for the study points out, "Vaccination against Covid-19 provides clear public health benefits, but vaccination also carries potential risks. The risks and outcomes of myocarditis after Covid-19 vaccination are unclear."
The data was extracted from the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), the CDC's portal for reporting side effects. Reports had to meet the CDC's case definition for myocarditis to be included in the analysis, which required "abnormal cardiac test results, and no other identifiable cause of the symptoms and findings."
The rate of myocarditis was highest in boys aged 16 to 17 (105.9 cases per million second doses of Pfizer). It was next highest in boys aged 12 to 15 (70.7 cases per million second doses of Pfizer). Almost as high was the rate in 18- to 24-year-old men. It also affected older people and women, at lower rates.
This is the usual pattern for myocarditis: it also primarily affects young males when caused by something other than the vaccines (usually a viral infection). The authors suggest that this is why the risk was not spotted until months after the vaccines' Emergency Use Authorization in the US, after they had been rolled out to these age groups. Why the ongoing clinical trials did not identify the association remains unclear.
However, the vaccine-induced myocarditis seems to flare up quicker (around two days after vaccination) and go away quicker than typical viral myocarditis. While almost all of the young men (96%) who got myocarditis from the vaccines went to hospital, the vast majority (87%) of them had recovered by the time they were released, generally after treatment with anti-inflammatory drugs.
As about 6% of ordinary myocarditis cases are fatal or require a heart transplant, those affected by this side effect are advised not to play competitive sports for three to six months, and return only subject to precautionary heart tests. The CDC intends to continue to monitor some of these boys to see how they are faring after some months.
This is not the first study to find an association between the Covid vaccines and cardiac incidents. However, compared with the nearly 200 million doses administered during the trial period, the total number of confirmed myocarditis cases (1,626) is miniscule. That said, in this case underreporting is the most likely limitation on the data, and "the actual rates of myocarditis per million doses of vaccine are likely higher than estimated."
New research shows 75% surge in global cancer burden by 2030 - Cancer Council Australia
New research shows 75% surge in global cancer burden by 2030
New international research shows the global cancer burden is set to increase more than 75 per cent by 2030, with a combination of lifestyle and demographic change behind the expected surge in cancer cases.
CEO of Cancer Council Australia, Professor Ian Olver, said the new research, published in The Lancet, coincided with Australia's annual focus on increasing awareness of bowel cancer.
Professor Olver said a predicted 22.2 million cancers would be diagnosed globally in 2030 compared to 12.7 million in 2008, with bowel cancer a key reason for the increase, internationally and in Australia.
Australian data used for the study predicted bowel cancer deaths would more than double from around 4000 in 2008 to 8600 in 2030.
"Bowel cancer is a compelling case, because we are falling so far short of our potential to reduce deaths using proven measures in prevention and early detection," Professor Olver said.
"The Government took a commendable step when Health Minister Tanya Plibersek announced $50 million in the budget to expand the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program.
"The key now is to get a lot more eligible people screening, so we can boost the program's participation rate well above the current figure of around 40 per cent.
"We don't have to look down the barrel at 8,600 Australians dying annually of bowel cancer in 18 years as if there is nothing we can do about it."
Professor Olver said as well as being easy to treat if detected early, bowel cancer could be prevented through a healthy weight, eating well, exercising, not smoking and limiting alcohol. "This is why raising bowel cancer awareness is so important," he said. "We face a doubling of deaths by 2030, yet we could dramatically reduce this number if more Australians understand the benefits of prevention and early detection."
Professor Olver said while population ageing was the main reason behind Australia's increase in cancer burden, most of the global surge would occur in developing countries where people were adopting unhealthy Western lifestyles such as smoking, fast food and physical inactivity.
Poor sanitation costs Ghana 290 million dollars annually |
Poor sanitation costs Ghana 290 million dollars annually
in Latest news February 26, 2012
Poor sanitation costs Ghana 290 million dollars each year, representing 1.6 per cent of National Gross Domestic Product,
This is contained in a study by the Environmental Health and Sanitation Directorate of the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD).
According to the Directorate, whilst open defecation costs Ghana 79 million per year, 215 million dollars are lost each year as a result of premature death due to poor water, sanitation and hygiene.
Mr Kweku Quansah, official at the Directorate, made these known when Plan Ghana, a non-governmental organization (NGO), held a four-day workshop to kick start the implementation of the Testing Modified Community Led Sanitation (CLTS) Scalability project in Accra,
The CLTS that was initiated by the NGO in collaboration with stakeholders in sanitation with grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, would be implemented in Ghana, Kenya and Ethiopia on different models.
Mr Quansah noted that Ghana loses 19 million dollars each year in access time for open defecation and explained that "each opened defecating person spends 2.5 days every year finding an obscure place to hide leading to economic losses".
He said 1.5 million dollars were lost each year due to productivity losses whilst 54 million dollars are spent each year on health care, treating diarrhoea and its consequences for other diseases like respiratory infections and malaria.
Mr Quansah said approximately, 13,900 Ghanaian adults and 5,100 children under 5 years die each year from diarrhoea and nearly 90 per cent of which is directly attributed to sanitation and water problems.
The study also revealed that 4.63 million Ghanaians have no latrines at all and defecate in the open whilst 16.34 Million of Ghanaians use unsanitary or shared latrines.
Mr Quansah noted that with the current sanitation, coverage of 14 per cent and open defecation, it will be difficult to meet the Millennium Development Goal on sanitation, which has a target of 54 per cent, if attitudes were not changed.
A person in Upper East was 27 times less likely to use a latrine as a person in Ashanti Region. For regional disparity on open defecation, Upper East Region recorded 82 per cent, Upper West Region 79 per cent, Northern Region 31 per cent, Volta Region 31 per cent and Central Region 18 per cent.
The Western Region recorded 13 per cent, eight per cent for Greater Accra Region, six per cent for Eastern Region, six per cent for Brong Ahafo Region and Ashanti Region three per cent of open defecation.
Mr Quansah explained that with barely three more years to reach 2015, eliminating the practice of open defecation will only require sensitizing Ghanaians to acquire and use only latrines and improved toilet facilities, and not any sophisticated and complicated facilities or huge money.
"Unfortunately, only nine per cent of the population has unimproved toilet facility whilst 19 per cent covered open defecation and 58 per cent have shared toilet facility", he said.
Mr Quansah said sanitation plays a key role in national development as it affects the quality of life and productivity of the population.
He said:"With a little effort, we will achieve the 54 per cent target of the MDG on sanitation. All we need is to intensify our advocacy, show commitment and enforce our laws at all levels". GNA
Individual Counseling And Depression Screening - Take Charge, Inc.
Individual Counseling And Depression Screening
Individual counseling is the best primary course of treatment for depression. October 7 is National Depression Screening Day, which aims to bring depression into the light and help those who need it.
According to the National Institute On Mental Illness, 19.4 million adults in the U.S. have had at least one major depressive episode. In 2009, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force updated its recommendations on screening. It now recommends that all adults should be screened for depression as part of primary care.
1. A feeling of Emptiness.
Most people think of depression as sadness, and that can certainly be one symptom, but one big hallmark of depression is an empty feeling.
Depression frequently causes feelings of excessive irritability or restlessness.
Focusing on tasks and making decisions can be difficult with depression.
If you lose a significant amount of weight without dieting or trying to, it could be due to depression.
Regardless of whether or not you have an actual plan, if you find yourself wishing for death or thinking about suicide, please seek help immediately.
A Polyvagal Approach To Depression
According to Polyvagal Theory, depression is not so much a mental disorder as an adaptive response to adversity. When we approach depression as a disease of irrational suffering, we contribute to stigmatization and feelings of hopelessness for people who experience it. When we understand that it actually happens for a good reason, however, we remove the shame and make room for healing
Depression is an aspect of our biological defense mechanisms that is meant to help us survive trauma. Specifically, it is a product of a biological strategy called immobilization, which occurs when a perceived threat or lack of safety goes on for so long that the Autonomic (automatic) Nervous System (ANS) determines it cannot fight or flee, so it must freeze or faint.
Anxiety studies have shown that there are many modern triggers for the fight or flight response. Stressors from school work to economic instability set off this response but generally don't resolve quickly like a face-off with a lion. Eventually, the body determines that it can't escape the triggers, so it initiates the immobilization response. Depression is the emotional and cognitive symptoms associated with the physiological immobilization response.
Knowing that depression is essentially the emotional expression of the immobilization response gives us a path for healing through moving out of that defensive state. This is accomplished through strong, supportive social connections and individual counseling.
More than one in ten adults in the US take antidepressants. Almost 85% of these psychiatric medications are prescribed by primary care physicians, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants in very short and brief office visits. These providers may or may not have the specialized training necessary to create comprehensive depression treatment plans and are pressed for time.
Antidepressants have warnings about potentially dangerous side effects. They can be difficult to stop taking, with significant withdrawal symptoms. Studies have found that most SSRIs do not just decrease negative emotions, but dampen all emotions for many patients, including love, happiness, and joy.
In many cases, the benefits outweigh the risk and are very helpful. Please don't just stop taking psychiatric medicines. Drugs should not be the first or only line of depression treatment, however. Taking pills may seem like a quick and easy solution to low moods, but drugs are not a panacea for depression treatment. In individual counseling, you take the time and effort to develop brain-healthy habits, build skills, and understand and address your nervous system needs while changing negative behavior and thought patterns. This results in real and lasting results.
If you are suffering, please don't wait. For more information about depression treatment or individual counseling for anxiety or trauma, call Take Charge, Inc. at (913) 239-8255 or click here to schedule an appointment.
Launching in June 2012, the Next Generation GMAT exam will include a 30-minute Integrated Reasoning section with four new question formats, which measure skills that management professors have identified as important for incoming students to have. This is the second in a series of Graduate Management News articles spotlighting the new question formats.
Skills tested: Graphics Interpretation problems measure test takers' ability to interpret and analyze data presented in different graphical formats. Test takers integrate data, discern relationships among data, and make inferences from a set of data. Some graphics interpretation questions require quantitative analysis, such as calculating change in a given value over time or comparing different rates of growth. Others require interpretive skills, extracting meaning from an overall presentation of data.ds
Click on the graphic for a sample question using Adobe Flash animation
Description: Each Graphics Interpretation prompt presents a graph or graphical image, such as a scatter plot (see example), x/y graph, bar chart, statistical curve distribution, or pie chart, and will usually have some text explanation. Each prompt has several statements to be completed with fill-in-the-blank drop-down menus, and test takers are asked to interpret the graphic and choose the word, number, or phrase from each drop-down menu to make each statement correct.
Relevance: Integrated Reasoning involves not only assimilating data from different sources but also interpreting information presented in different ways. Advances in computer technology, database systems, and computer-generated graphics have led to much more sophisticated data collection and measurement as well as to new graphical formats to present data. All of this data has to be analyzed and interpreted. Business schools and the business world demand people to evaluate data presented in different formats both to interpret past events and to predict future outcomes.
Quote: "Data-based graphics are ubiquitous in presentations and reports encountered in the business world and in the MBA classroom. The ability to critically evaluate these graphics, extract the information they contain and properly interpret it in the context of the management issues at hand is invaluable. Graphics Interpretation places an emphasis on these skills. Across the MBA curriculum, this is a type of skill both demanded and developed."
EHSLibrary : 2012 : March - Page 2
Monthly Archives: March 2012 - p2
New iPad released and its potential in health care
By Peter | Published March 12, 2012
Thinking about springing for the new iPad? iMedicalApps.com has published an insightful article about how the new hardware in Apple's latest offering can benefit physicians and other health care professionals.The article highlights an increased screen resolution as a benefit to medical imaging and the addition of a voice dictation feature to the on-screen keyboard as […]
Posted in general interest, mobile, technology | Comments Off on New iPad released and its potential in health care
Alternative Medicine : Elements Custom Skin & Body 1411 Falls Avenue E No. 401 Twin Falls ID 83301 208-733-3989
Elements Custom Skin & Body
1411 Falls Avenue E No. 401
208-733-3989 web
3 LPN / RN Long Term Care - LTC Lewiston, ID, USA Maxim Healthcare Services is seeking a Long Term Care (LTC) Registered Nurse (RN) / Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) to assume responsibility and accountability for the delivery of patient care of ...... Apply Now>>
4 Home Care Nurses Wanted - ASAP Start Rathdrum, ID, USA Here atMaxim Healthcare Services, we are looking for compassionate, professional, andreliable nurses to join our team ASAP! Why work forMaxim? Working for Maxim provides you with the opportunity to ...... Apply Now>>
6 Registered Nurse - RN Coeur d'Alene, ID, USA Maxim Healthcare Services is seeking a Registered Nurse (RN) who will assume responsibility and accountability for the application of the nursing process and the delivery of patient care. The ...... Apply Now>>
7 LRS Healthcare is seeking for RN/RN-ED - Emergency Department Lewiston, ID, USA For well over a decade, LRS Healthcare has been an industry leader in RNSP2 staffing. In partnering with many of the nation's largest and most prestigious healthcare facilities, as well as small ...... Apply Now>>
11 ER/Trauma RN needed for 13WKS travel assignment ID, USA During this time we have learned exactly what healthcare professionals are looking for in travel assignments and adapted our business to be the best fit for these... Apply Now>>
12 Registered Nurse ( PACU Contract ) Boise, ID Boise, ID, USA QCI Healthcare is currently seeking an experienced RN to fill a thirteen week contract assignment at Saint Alphonsus Regional Medical Center. * 13 Week contract Assignment * Day shift position * 4 ...... Apply Now>>
13 PACU RN- Boise, ID Boise, ID, USA QCI Healthcare is seeking a Registered Nurse. The ideal candidate will complete a 13 week contract at St Alphonsus Regional Medical Center. Need experienced PACU RN to cover in Day Surgery, Pre/Post ...... Apply Now>>
15 Progressive Care Unit Registered Nurse - Travel Lewiston, ID, USA Supplemental Health Care is a nationally recognized healthcare staffing provider partnering with a hospital in Lewiston, ID to provide a traveling PCU Registered Nurse. 114 Beds 13-week assignment ...... Apply Now>>
16 ER Travel RN Nampa, ID, USA Supplemental Health Care is seeking an ER Registered Nurse traveler with recent RN hospital experience to join a trusted hospital that we have partnered with in Nampa, ID. We are interviewing ...... Apply Now>>
17 Travel Registered Nurse RN, Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit ID, USA Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit Travel Registered Nurse (RN) Benefits: • Potential same-day interviews and offers • $1000 referral bonuses - get paid to refer great nurses you know! • YOU ...... Apply Now>>
18 RN/Emergency Room Lewiston, ID, USA Lewiston , ID Coastal Healthcare Resources, Inc. is looking for qualified candidates for an assignment in Lewiston , ID . This assignment requires a minimum of 2 years of recent experience... Apply Now>>
20 Certified OR Tech OR Tech opening in Boise, Idaho Boise, ID, USA Aya Healthcare has an immediate opening for the following position: Certified OR Tech, OR Tech in Boise, Idaho. This is a 13 week contract position that requires at least one year of experience... Apply Now>>
21 LRS Healthcare is seeking for ALLIED - Allied Health Professional/OR Tech (CST, Certified) Mountain Home, ID, USA For well over a decade, LRS Healthcare has been an industry leader in RN staffing. In partnering with many of the nation's largest and most prestigious healthcare facilities, as well as small ...... Apply Now>>
23 Travel Nurse - OR Boise, ID, USA Host Healthcare has a great travel nurse opportunity. A prestigious facility is looking to hire a travel nurse. This is an opportunity to earn top pay while working at a top facility in the county... Apply Now>>
25 Case Manager/Registered Nurse Idaho Falls, ID, USA Must be able to work independently without supervision, managing home health care for individuals currently receiving benefits from the Department of Labor. Will be required to manage care along with ...... Apply Now>>
29 Home Health Care Visit Nurse Boise, ID, USA Enjoy 1:1 care with your patients! Come and join our unique program and make a difference in your patient's life today! Progressive Nursing Services has an immediate opening for an RN Home Health ...... Apply Now>>
31 Personal Care Services (PCS) - Aide Idaho Falls, ID, USA As our growth continues, Aspen Healthcare is seeking a Personal Care Aide to help in our mission: to provide cost-efficient, quality home care services to the patients entrusted in our care.We are ...... Apply Now>>
32 Passionate Caregiver Needed Now for Child Client! Boise, ID, USA A Caring Hand Home Health is hiring now for a child caregiver! Our locally owned and operated ... Our priority is to provide the highest quality of care... Apply Now>>
33 Registered Nurse | RN | SUPV (Contract) Meridian, USA Outstanding contract opportunity for an experienced House Supervisor Registered Nurse at a new LTACH in Boise Idaho. 12 hour night shift for 12 weeks starting ASAP. The ideal candidate will have 1 ...... Apply Now>>
34 Licensed & Non Licensed Healthcare Sales Representatives Twin Falls, United States Licensed & Non Licensed Healthcare Sales Representatives Full time/Part time Regular/Seasonal Mon-Fri hours may vary Agent positions = $10.56-$13.00/Hr. Support positions = $13.00-$16.00/Hr ...... Apply Now>>
36 Registered Nurse (RN) / Travel / Home Health Boise, ID, USA Home Health Care Nurse Idaho Length of Assignment : 3 months Shift: 8 Hour Days, 8AM - 5PM with 1 weekend a month - call 1-2 nights a week. Currently seeking a Home Health Nurse for a job opening in ...... Apply Now>>
37 Day Surgery Nurse, Part-Time Caldwell, United States Some of our key services include: cardiology, emergency care, ear/nose/throat, general surgery, spine, orthopedics, pediatrics, behavioral health, radiology/imaging, urology, maternity, womens ...... Apply Now>>
38 Travel ICU/CCU Registered Nurse needed in Coeur d'Alene Coeur d'Alene, ID, USA Travel Registered Nurse ProLink Healthcare is selecting experienced RNs for contract opportunities in distinguished facilities throughout the country. We offer top-tier pay & benefits packages, as ...... Apply Now>>
39 Travel Nurse (RN) - 13 week contract Coeur d'Alene, United States Specialties include DIALYSIS, ICU, MED SURG, TELE, ER, OR, LABOR and DELIVERY and more! MedPro is a ... benefits including health, life and disability insurance; matching 401(k); company-paid ...... Apply Now>>
40 Registered Nurse Boise, United States We have many dynamic positions with cutting edge programs throughout the entire United States and various settings to meet each healthcare professional's criteria.Benefits of a Local Contract or ...... Apply Now>>
Our Truffle Paper Is Published! | NC State Extension
Our Truffle Paper Is Published!
go.ncsu.edu/readext?724378
— Written By Jeanine Davis en Español
8/20/20 – It has been decades in coming because finding funding to conduct research on growing truffles in North Carolina was not an easy task. But we did it and here's the end result of our efforts. A big thank you to Inga Meadows for her perseverance in getting the paper through the review process. And thanks to the North American Truffle Growers Association and the NC Specialty Crops Block Grant Program.
The title of the paper is "Persistence of Tuber melanosporum in truffle orchards in North Carolina, USA", authored by Inga Meadows, Leonora Stefanile, Suzette Sharpe, and Jeanine Davis, and published online August 19, 2020 in Mycorrhiza
A sample of the Black Perigord truffles harvested from the NC State truffle orchard on the Mountain Researh Station on January 5, 2020. Photo by Susi Gott Seguret.
