Wolfgang Eisterer | PubFacts
Publications by authors named "Wolfgang Eisterer"
Background: A frequent side effect of the multikinase inhibitor regorafenib is fatigue. Physical activity has shown potential in reducing cancer-related fatigue.
Methods: This non-interventional pilot study assessed physical activity levels of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients treated with regorafenib based on median daily step counts measured at 1‑week intervals using a pedometer. The study further evaluated relations between physical activity levels and fatigue, quality of life (QoL) and progression-free survival.
Results: Pedometer data were available for 22 out of 25 enrolled patients. The numbers of days with available pedometer data ranged from 6 to 100 days. The overall median daily step count was 2357 (range 10-14,931), with substantial interindividual and intraindividual variations. Interindividual median weekly step counts were in the range of 5000-7000 in some, 2000-3000 in others, and several hundreds or less in a few patients. Intraindividual daily step counts also varied by several thousands of steps. Step counts in weeks in which patients reported fatigue were well within the range of or even higher than step counts in adjacent weeks, indicating a lack of correlation. The risk of disease progression was also independent of median weekly step counts; however, significant correlations were seen between QoL and step counts.
Conclusion: Despite the severity of their disease patients showed remarkable levels of walking activity. In view of the highly individual activity levels, exercise prescriptions for seriously ill patient populations should be personalized to the specific needs and preferences of each individual patient.
Trastuzumab in combination with a platinum and fluorouracil is the treatment of choice for patients with advanced human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive gastric cancer and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancer. Pathological assessment of the HER2 status in gastric/GEJ cancer, however, still remains difficult. However, it is a crucial prerequisite for optimal treatment. The GASTRIC-5 registry was designed as an observational, multi-center research initiative comparing local and central HER2 testing. HER2 status was assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in equivocal cases (IHC score 2+) by additional in-situ hybridization. Between May 2011 and August 2018, tumor samples of 183 patients were tested in local and central pathology laboratories, respectively. Central testing revealed HER2 positivity in 38 samples (21%). Discordant HER2 results were found in 12% (22 out of 183) with locally HER2 positive/centrally HER2 negative results (9%, 17 out of 183), exceeding locally HER2 negative/centrally HER2 positive results (3%, 5 out of 183). Centrally confirmed HER2 positive patients receiving trastuzumab-based palliative first-line therapy showed a longer median overall survival compared to centrally HER2 positive patients not receiving trastuzumab (17.7 months (95% CI: 10,870-24,530) vs. 6.9 months (95% CI: 3.980-9.820), = 0.016). The findings of the GASTRIC-5 registry corroborate the challenge of HER2 testing in gastric/GEJ cancer and highlight the necessity for central quality control to optimize individual treatment options. Centrally HER2 positive patients not receiving trastuzumab had the worst outcome in a Western real-world gastric/GEJ cancer cohort.
Martin Fehr Hanne Hawle Stefanie Hayoz Peter Thuss-Patience Sabina Schacher Jorge Riera Knorrenschild Donat Dürr Wolfram T Knoefel Holger Rumpold Michael Bitzer Martin Zweifel Panagiotis Samaras Ulrich Mey Marc Küng Ralph Winterhalder Wolfgang Eisterer Viviane Hess Marie-Aline Gérard Arnoud Templeton Michael Stahl Thomas Ruhstaller
BMC Cancer 2020 Feb 28;20(1):166. Epub 2020 Feb 28.
Department of Medical Oncology and Haematology, Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, Rorschacherstrasse 95, 9007, St. Gallen, Switzerland.
Background: High rates of venous thromboembolic events (VTEs), mainly in advanced disease, are reported for patients with cancer of the upper gastrointestinal tract (stomach, pancreas) and for treatment with cisplatin.
Methods: Exploratory analysis of VTEs reported as adverse events and serious adverse events in a prospective, randomised, multicentre, multimodal phase III trial according to VTEs reported as adverse events and severe adverse events. Patients with resectable oesophageal cancer (T2N1-3, T3-4aNx) were randomized to 2 cycles of chemotherapy with docetaxel 75 mg/m, cisplatin 75 mg/m followed by chemo-radiotherapy (CRT) and subsequent surgery (control arm) or the same treatment with addition of cetuximab (investigational arm).
Results: VTEs occurred in 26 of 300 patients included in the trial, resulting in an incidence rate (IR) of 8.7% [95% CI 5.7-12.4%]. A total of 29 VTEs were reported:13 (45%) VTEs were grade 2, 13 (45%) grade 3 and three (10%) fatal grade 5 events. 72% (21/29) of all VTEs occurred preoperatively (IR 6.7%): 14% (4/29) during chemotherapy and 59% (17/29) during CRT. In multivariable logistic regression only adenocarcinoma (IR 11.1%, 21/189 patients) compared to squamous cell cancer (IR 4.5%, 5/111 patients) was significantly associated with VTE-risk during treatment, OR 2.9 [95%CI 1.0-8.4], p = 0.046. Baseline Khorana risk score was 0 in 73% (19/26), 1-2 in 23% (6/26) and 3 in only 4% (1/26) of patients with VTEs.
Conclusion: A high incidence of VTEs during preoperative therapy of resectable oesophageal cancer is observed in this analysis, especially in patients with adenocarcinoma. The role of prophylactic anticoagulation during neoadjuvant therapy in resectable esophageal cancer should be further evaluated in prospective clinical trials. According to our data, which are in line with other analysis of VTE-risk in patients with oesophageal cancer patients treated with neoadjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy and CRT, prophylactic anticoagluation could be considered balanced against individual bleeding risks, especially in patients with adenocarcinoma. In addition to the established risk factors, oesophageal adenocarcinoma treated with neoadjuvant cisplatin-based therapy may be regarded as a high-risk situation for VTEs.
Trial Registration: Registered at clinicaltrials.gov, NCT01107639, on 21 April 2010.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12885-020-6623-z DOI Listing
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7048062 PMC
Background: The management of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer (mPC) is challenging, and the optimal treatment strategy is debated among experts. In an attempt to identify treatment decision criteria and to investigate variations in the first-line management of this disease, we performed an analysis of treatment algorithms among experts in the field of pancreatic cancer. The aim of this study was to identify relevant criteria in the complex process of patient selection and decision making for the management of mPC patients.
Methods: Experts from the ABCSG (Austrian Breast and Colorectal Cancer Study Group) Pancreatic Cancer Club were contacted and agreed to participate in this analysis. Eight experts from seven centers in Austria provided their decision algorithms for the first-line treatment of patients with mPC. Their responses were converted into decision trees based on the objective consensus methodology. The decision trees were used to identify consensus and discrepancies.
Results: The final treatment algorithms included four decision criteria (performance status, age, comorbidities, and symptomatic disease) and six treatment options: mFOLFIRINOX, gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine mono, 5-FU mono, gemcitabine/erlotinib, and best supportive care (BSC).
Conclusions: We identified consensus for the treatment of young and fit patients with mFOLFIRINOX. With higher age and reduced performance status, gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel was increasingly used. For patients with Eastern Co-operative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) 4, BSC was the treatment of choice. Among experts, different decision criteria and treatment options are implemented in clinical routine. Despite multiple options in current recommendations, a consensus for specific recommendations was identified.
Wolfgang Eisterer Gerald Prager
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2019 Sep 3;42(9):1213-1220. Epub 2019 Jul 3.
Department for Internal Medicine I, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00270-019-02278-7 DOI Listing
Introduction: The placebo-controlled phase-2 REGOSARC trial demonstrated the efficacy of regorafenib in patients with leiomyosarcoma, synovial sarcoma and other non-adipocytic sarcoma but not in liposarcoma. Patients initially allocated to placebo were allowed to receive regorafenib after progression. We report here an updated analysis of the trial including evaluation of regorafenib activity after cross-over.
Methods: From June 2013 to December 2014, 139 patients were enrolled in the non-adipocytic sarcoma cohorts. Median follow-up is now 32.4 months. Benefit of regorafenib versus placebo in terms of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) from randomisation was estimated by hazard ratio (HR) in Cox models. In the placebo arm, intra-patient benefit of regorafenib after cross-over was evaluated by the growth modulation index (GMI) (GMI was here, for each patient, PFS after cross-over regorafenib divided by PFS with placebo). Furthermore, the activity of delayed (after cross-over) versus early (at study entry) regorafenib was evaluated by comparing PFS after cross-over to regorafenib to PFS after randomisation in the regorafenib arm.
Results: PFS benefit of regorafenib as compared to placebo was confirmed with longer follow-up (HR = 0.50; 95% CI: 0.35-0.71; p < .0001). OS was not statistically significant different (HR = 0.78; 0.54-1.12; p = .18). This finding may partially be explained by the fact that 55/68 patients who progressed on placebo (81%) received cross-over Regorafenib after progression: 59% of them had a GMI ≥ 1.3 (95% CI, 45-71%). Delayed start of regorafenib was associated with a statistically non-significant shorter PFS as compared to early treatment (HR = 1.21; 0.84-1.73; p = .30) without impact on OS.
Conclusions: Observed PFS confirms that regorafenib warrants further clinical investigation in refractory non-adipocytic sarcomas.
Introduction: Despite advances in adjuvant chemotherapy, 20-30% of patients in stages II-III colorectal cancer will eventually relapse. Observational studies showed a reduction in relapse rate, colon cancer-specific mortality, and overall mortality by physical activity. Results from prospective randomized interventional studies to confirm these observational data are lacking. The aims of this prospective single-arm multicenter pilot study are to evaluate feasibility and safety of exercise training after adjuvant chemotherapy in colorectal cancer patients.
Patients And Methods: The training was performed three times per week for 1 year and was increased gradually in three phases until reaching 18 metabolic equivalent task hours per week.
Results: Overall, 30 patients were included. The planned training intensity could be achieved in all three phases. Patients experienced a performance increase of median 35.5 watt, a weight-loss of a median of 3.0 kg, and a reduction in body fat content of median 1.0% during this exercise training. The analysis showed early study termination due to non-compliance in 10/30 patients (33.3%), disease progression in 4 patients (13.3%), and serious adverse events in 2 patients (6.7%). About half of patients (46.7%) completed the pilot study as planned. Biomarker analysis from 20 patients showed a non-significant reduction in insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGF-BP3) levels, significant increases in adiponectin and leptin levels, and a non-significant increase in C-peptide levels.
Conclusion: Exercise training is feasible in patients with colorectal cancer after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy. The main problem encountered during the study was compliance. To improve compliance of exercise training, several measures were adapted for the upcoming prospective randomized ABCSG C08 Exercise II study.
Aim: To evaluate feasibility and safety of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine, oxaliplatin and bevacizumab followed by concomitant standard chemoradiation and surgical resection in patients with high-risk locally advanced rectal cancer.
Patients And Methods: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-defined high-risk cT3/4 rectal cancer patients were treated with 3 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine (1,000 mg/m twice daily days 1-14, 22-35, 43-56), oxaliplatin (130 mg/sqm on days 1, 22, 43) and bevacizumab (7.5 mg/kg on days 1, 22, 43) followed by capecitabine (825 mg/m twice daily on radiotherapy days week 1-4) concomitantly with radiotherapy (1.8 Gy daily up to 45 Gy in 5 weeks) and surgical resection by total mesorectal excision. Feasibility, safety, response rate and postoperative morbidity were evaluated.
Results: Twenty-five patients were recruited. Median age was 62 years (range=24-78 years) and all patients had Eastern Cooperation Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0. From all patients, 79.2% finished neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Twenty patients underwent surgery. Pathologic complete remission rate, R0 resection and T-downstaging were achieved in 25%, 95% and 54.2% of the "intention to treat" (ITT) patients. The most common grade 3 adverse events (AEs) during neoadjuvant chemotherapy were diarrhea (16.6%) and mucositis (12.5%). In one patient, a grade 4 acute renal failure occurred (4.2%). During chemoradiation, skin reactions (5.3%) were the most common grade 3 AEs. Two major perioperative complications required re-intervention.
Conclusion: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with bevacizumab, capecitabine and oxaliplatin followed by concomitant standard chemoradiation is feasible in patients with high-risk locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) and resulted in complete pathologic remission (pCR) rate of 25% and neoadjuvant chemotherapy completion rate of 80%.
Purpose: The aim of this study was to analyse the long-term outcome of rectal cancer patients who submitted to preoperative chemoradiation with consecutive intensive follow-up and aggressive surgical treatment of recurrent disease.
Methods: Patients with locally advanced (cT3-4 Nx M0-1) mid/low rectal cancer were treated at a tertiary university hospital with preoperative long-course chemoradiation followed by resection (according to a prospective study protocol). After resection, all patients were urged to participate in a standardised, risk-independent intensive follow-up program. All curatively treated patients (n = 153, 96 %) were included in our long-term analysis with respect to curative re-resection of recurrent disease.
Results: Of 153 patients, 143 (93 %) participated in our follow-up program: 63 % were surveyed longer than 5 years after primary therapy (mean follow-up 75 months, 95 % CI 67.8-82.2). Fifty-five (36 %) patients developed cancer recurrence (mean 27.8 months, 95 % CI 20.6-34.9, range 3-108), giving a disease-free survival rate of 68.5 and 60.7 % at 5 and 10 years; 21 (38 %) patients were re-resected curatively and 58 (38 %) patients died during the observation period, giving an overall survival rate of 70.8 and 57.5 % at 5 and 10 years. Multivariate analysis found tumour differentiation (P < 0.01), operative procedure (P < 0.05) and downstaging (P < 0.01) to be independent variables influencing overall survival.
Conclusions: The combination of multimodal therapy and aggressive surgical treatment of metastases including repeated re-resections in curative intention is relevant in order to chronify the disease. Thus, both intensive and extended follow-up beyond 5 years appear to be mandatory.
Background: Oesophageal carcinoma is a rare disease with often dismal prognosis. Despite multiple trials addressing specific issues, currently, many questions in management remain unanswered. This work aimed to specifically address areas in the management of oesophageal cancer where high level evidence is not available, performing trials is very demanding and for many questions high-level evidence will not be available in the forseeable future.
Methods: Two experts of each national, oesophageal cancer research group from Austria, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland were asked to provide statements to controversial issues. After an initial survey, further questions were formulated and answered by all experts. The answers were then discussed and qualitatively analysed for consensus and controversy.
Results: Topics such as indications for PET-CT, reasons for induction chemotherapy, radiotherapy dose, the choice of definitive chemo-radiotherapy versus surgery in squamous cell cancer, the role of radiotherapy in adenocarcinoma and selected surgical issues were identified as topics of interest and discussed.
Conclusion: Areas of significant controversy exist in the management of oesophageal cancer, mostly due to high-level evidence. This is not expected to change in the upcoming years.
Background/aim: To investigate the feasibility and safety of preoperative capecitabine, cetuximab and radiation in patients with MRI-defined locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC, cT3/T4).
Patients And Methods: 31 patients with LARC were treated with cetuximab and capecitabine concomitantly with 45 Gy radiotherapy and resected by total mesorectal excision. Histopathological response and association with KRAS status was evaluated.
Results: R0-resection was possible in 27 of 31 (86%) patients. No complete pathological remission was observed. Radiochemotherapy with capecitabine and cetuximab was safe to administer and diarrhea was the main toxicity. KRAS-status did not correlate to down-staging or pathological response concerning T- or N-stage.
Conclusion: Neoadjuvant therapy with capecitabine and cetuximab in combination with radiotherapy did not lead to complete pathological remission. Treatment tolerability was excellent and toxicity remained low. KRAS status did not influence treatment outcomes. Capecitabine in combination with radiotherapy remains a standard therapy for locally advanced rectal cancer.
Michael Fiegl Günther G Steger Michael Studnicka Wolfgang Eisterer Christine Jaeger Wolfgang Willenbacher
Curr Med Res Opin 2013 May 19;29(5):505-15. Epub 2013 Mar 19.
University Hospital, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.
Background: Guidelines for using granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in patients receiving chemotherapies with 10-20% (intermediate) risk for febrile neutropenia (FN) recommend additional assessment of patient-related FN risk factors.
Objective: The current study evaluated adherence to guideline recommendations and analysed modalities of pegfilgrastim use.
Methods: Adult cancer patients scheduled to receive a chemotherapy regimen assessed by the investigators as intermediate FN risk and who received pegfilgrastim were prospectively enrolled in this observational study from 2007-2010. Risk factors at study entry, treatment modalities and FN assessment were documented by investigators, whereas guideline adherence was centrally checked in a post-hoc analysis, according to guideline categorizations.
Results: Thirty-seven centres enrolled 335 evaluable patients with solid and hematologic neoplasias. Although physicians initially rated the FN risk of all chemotherapies as intermediate, after central re-assessment this applied only to 63.9% of regimens; 21.2% were reassessed as low risk and 14.9% as high risk. Pegfilgrastim was used as primary prophylaxis in 80.3% of all patients. The most frequent FN risk factors considered by physicians when deciding to use pegfilgrastim were female gender, advanced disease, age ≥ 65 years, and anaemia. FN incidence was higher in patients with ≥ 4 FN risk factors than those with <4 risk factors (10% vs. 4.3%; p = 0.055) and in patients with severe comorbidity than those without (13.6% vs. 4.5%; p = 0.014). Overall FN rate was 5.7%.
Limitations: Due to the observational design of the study, findings are descriptive in nature. Post-hoc assessment of chemotherapy FN risk was determined by author's opinion in some cases.
Conclusions: Overall, there was good adherence of Austrian physicians to guideline recommendations; however, there are chemotherapy regimens and clinical settings in which FN risk assignment is unclear in the literature. FN incidence with pegfilgrastim prophylaxis was similar to that reported in other observational and randomized studies.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1185/03007995.2013.781018 DOI Listing
Melike Deger Wolfgang Eisterer Lucie Kutikova Sam Salek
Support Care Cancer 2013 Feb 24;21(2):485-93. Epub 2012 Jul 24.
Welsh School of Pharmacy, Cardiff University, Redwood Building, King Edward VII Avenue, Cardiff, CF10 3NB, UK.
Purpose: Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents can reduce red blood cell transfusion rates in patients developing anemia while receiving chemotherapy. We investigated potential cost savings from reduced transfusion rates in patients starting darbepoetin alfa (DA) at higher versus lower hemoglobin (Hb) levels.
Methods: Two systematic literature reviews were performed: transfusion outcomes in patients receiving DA stratified by baseline Hb level and costs of transfusion in Europe. Potential cost savings were calculated by multiplying the difference in transfusion rates between Hb levels by the midpoint of transfusion costs.
Results: Despite differences in baseline characteristics, treatment duration and analysis technique, the clinical studies (n = 8) showed that fewer transfusions were required when DA was initiated at higher versus lower Hb levels. The economic studies (n = 9) showed that 1 unit of transfusion ranged from 130 to 537 (2010-adjusted values). Cost savings from initiating DA at higher versus lower Hb levels were 503-2,226 (2 units transfused) and 880-3,895 (3.5 units) per ten patients.
Conclusions: Transfusion incidence increases with DA initiation at lower Hb levels. Potential cost savings depend on the number of units transfused and cost items included. DA initiation according to guidelines can reduce transfusions and potentially reduce transfusion-associated costs.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00520-012-1538-0 DOI Listing
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3538022 PMC
Purpose: Radioiodine nonavid thyroid cancer (TC) is a rare disease entity with a poor prognosis. Despite a multimodal therapeutic approach including surgery, chemotherapy, and external beam radiation, radioiodine nonavid TC accounts for a high number of TC-associated deaths. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the response rate of progressive TC patients to treatment with the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib.
Materials And Methods: Seven patients with inoperable, metastasized progressive TC proven to be radioiodine nonavid were included into this pilot study. Patients received bortezomib intravenously with a standardized dose of 1.3 mg/m on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. All patients underwent 3 therapeutic cycles with an interval of 10 days. [F]2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography (F-FDG PET) and measurements of thyroglobulin levels were performed before, during, and after therapy, with a 6-week interval to post-therapeutic follow-up.
Results: Stable disease was seen after proteasome inhibitor therapy in 4 of the 7 patients. Two of the 7 patients showed decrease of maximum standardized uptake value in both post-therapeutic follow-up investigations, and one of these cases also had decreasing thyroglobulin levels. Two patients experienced stable disease during the posttherapeutic follow-up. Two patients showing a mixed response had an improvement in their clinical situation. One patient had rapidly progressive disease, and died 3 months after the last therapeutic cycle. Adverse events included mild polyneuropathy in 2 patients and alterations of the blood count up to WHO (World Health Organization) grade 2 in 5 patients.
Conclusion: Proteasome inhibitor treatment with bortezomib is a promising therapeutic approach in TC patients without an established treatment alternative. The development of a specific therapeutic regimen for the treatment of radioiodine nonavid TC is warranted.
Background: Patients suffering from advanced gastric cancer still have a poor prognosis and treatment options are limited. In our previous phase II trial (AGMT-Gastric-1), we showed that the combination of oxaliplatin and irinotecan was well tolerated and effective. The same chemotherapy regimen was now tested in combination with cetuximab in a multicenter phase II trial.
Patients And Methods: Oxaliplatin at 85 mg/m(2) biweekly and irinotecan at 125 mg/m(2) biweekly were combined with cetuximab at 400 mg/m(2) loading dose and subsequent weekly infusions of 250 mg/m(2). Fifty-one patients with histologically proven unresectable and/or metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma were treated in the first line setting. The median age was 62 years. A single metastatic site was found in 24 patients, 27 patients had multiple metastatic sites.
Results: Frequently reported adverse events (in more than 20% of patients) were predominantly grade 1 or 2 and included neutropenia (35%), thrombocytopenia (33%), anemia (73%), nausea (45%), diarrhea (57%), alopecia (22%), and fatigue (37%). Grade 3/4 toxicities included neutropenia in 9/1 patients., thrombocytopenia in 1/0 patients, anemia in 3/1 patients, nausea in 2/0 patients, and diarrhea in 7/2 patients. Sensory neuropathy occurred mostly as grade 1 and 2 in 37% of patients, grade 3 neurotoxicity was observed in 7 patients. Acne-like rash grades 1/2/3/4 were reported in 31%/20%/6%/2% of patients respectively. Thirteen patients discontinued the study due to neutropenia (n=5), nausea/vomiting (n=1), diarrhea (n=1), toxic colon (n=2), and allergic reaction to cetuximab at first (n=2), second (n=1) or third infusion (n=1). Thirty-five patients were assessable for response, with 1 patient (3%) showing a complete response, 21 patients (60%) a partial response, 7 patients (20%) a stable disease, and 6 patients (17%) a progressive disease respectively. The median time to progression was 24.8 weeks, median overall survival was 38.1 weeks. All patients tested had a wild type KRAS status.
Conclusion: The combination of oxaliplatin and irinotecan with cetuximab is safe and its action established in advanced gastric cancer.
Background: This phase II trial assessed the feasibility and safety of induction chemotherapy with cisplatin (25 mg/m(2) d1-5, d29-34)/docetaxel (75 mg/m(2) d1, d29)/5-fluorouracil (5-FU, 750 mg/m(2) d1-5, d 29-34) followed by external beam radiotherapy concurrent with docetaxel (15 mg/m(2) d1,8,15,22) and 5-FU (300 mg/m(2) continuous infusion on the days of radiotherapy).
Patients And Methods: Twenty-four patients with locally advanced carcinoma of the esophagus were included. Following chemotherapy and chemoradiation eligible patients underwent esophagectomy. If surgery could not be performed patients received definitive radiation.
Results: Sixteen patients underwent resection. Pathologic complete remission was achieved in 5 of those 16 patients, 13 patients had downstaging of disease. R0 resection was feasible in all 16 patients. Main grade 3 and 4 toxicities were neutropenia in 10 patients, diarrhea in 4 and postoperative morbidity in 9 patients. At a median follow-up of 16.5 months 15 patients are alive; median survival has not yet been reached.
Conclusion: Neoadjuvant treatment with cisplatin/docetaxel/5-fluorouracil followed by chemoradiation with docetaxel/5-fluorouracil is safe, feasible, and effective.
Purpose: Neurotensin subtype 1 receptor overexpression is found in a variety of human tumors. The aim of this pilot/phase I study was to assess the safety profile, pharmacokinetics, and imaging characteristics of (99m)Tc-Demotensin VI in tumor patients.
Methods: Scintigraphy with (99m)Tc-Demotensin VI was performed in 14 patients (2 female and 12 male) with advanced tumor stages. The diagnoses were pancreatic adenocarcinoma (n=4), small cell lung cancer (SCLC) (n=4), non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (n=4), and colon carcinoma (n=2). Patients were injected with 500-550 MBq (99m)Tc-Demotensin VI. Blood samples were taken at various time points and urine was also collected up to 24 hours post-injection (p.i.) Planar images were acquired at 15-30 minutes, 1-2 hours, 4 hours, and 24 hours p.i. with additional SPECT imaging at 4 hours.
Results: Radiochemical purity always exceeded 95% up to 4 hours. Urinary and blood excretion was rapid with 5.05% ID (mean: n=5) in plasma after 4 hours. No side effects were observed after injection of (99m)Tc-Demotensin VI. Focal tracer accumulation was observed in 3 patients with brain metastases due to NSCLC, although specificity of this uptake could not be proven. Further, no tumor-related findings were observed. Although stability tests in human plasma revealed that (99m)Tc-Demotensin VI remained intact up to 2 hours incubation, ex vivo urine analysis indicated rapid metabolism.
Conclusion: (99m)Tc-Demotensin VI was well tolerated by patients and showed favorable pharmacokinetics; however, tumor targeting was limited to brain metastases. Further studies on stability issues and receptor characterization in tumors are warranted to introduce neurotensin receptors (NTSR) imaging into the clinic.
Background And Purpose: The aim of this single-arm multicenter phase II clinical trial was to assess the feasibility and tolerability of preoperative radiotherapy and simultaneous capecitabine and bevacizumab. Secondary endpoints were downstaging-rate and induction of complete pathological response.
Material And Methods: Patients with cT3 rectal cancer were eligible. Capecitabine (825 mg/sqm twice daily on radiotherapy-days weeks 1-4) and bevacizumab (5 mg/kg on days 1, 15 and 29) were administered concurrently to pelvic radiotherapy (1.8 Gy daily up to 45 Gy in 5 weeks). Surgery followed 6-8 weeks later. A two-stage trial was designed with early termination at eight patients if more than three patients had experienced a common toxicity criteria ≥grade 3 according to the NCI CTC guidelines.
Results: In the first stage eight patients were enrolled. Median age was 70 years (range 55-76) and ECOG PS 0/1 (%) was 87.5/12.5. Major side effects were mostly intestinal bleeding (grade 3, 25%), diarrhea (grade 3, 25%), perianal and abdominal pain (grades 3 and 4, 25%) followed by anemia (grade 3, 12.5%). Tumor downstaging was observed in 37.5% of patients with complete pathological response in two patients (25%).
Conclusions: After interim analysis of feasibility and tolerability, accrual was terminated according to protocol due to ≥grade 3 toxicities in 50% of patients. Complete pathological response was seen in 25% of patients but was accompanied by considerable toxicity. Further clinical trials are needed to clarify the role of bevacizumab in this setting.
The Austrian chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) registry monitors individual disease courses, treatments applied, clinical outcome, and side effects of CML patients on a nationwide basis to provide data on the "real-life" situation and to complement the information and interpretation gained from the selected patient population observed in clinical trials. This report summarizes the Austrian CML registry data as of March 2009. A total of 179 patients have been registered with a median number of 1012 follow-up visits and median observation duration of 20 months. At diagnosis most patients (n = 163) were in chronic phase (early, late, and secondary), whereas only 4 were in advanced phase. A total of 137 patients were treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), of which 14 received first and second generation TKIs sequentially. Other treatment modalities included chemotherapy or interferon and stem cell transplantation (SCT). Cumulative incidence rates for complete hematological responses (CHR) were 91.6% and 94.4% at 12 and 24 months, respectively, compared to cumulative incidence rates of complete cytogenetical response rates of 64% and 80% at these timepoints. A total of 5 patients progressed from chronic phase to accelerated (n = 3) and blastic phase (n = 2) while receiving imatinib standard dose. Estimated overall survival (OS) rate at 60 months was 90% and progression free survival (PFS) according to European Leukemia Net (ELN) failure definition was 58%.
Can Exercise Benefit You As You Age? – Miosuperhealth
Can Exercise Benefit You As You Age?
Exercise is practiced for many reasons: staying healthy, maintaining a healthy weight, bodybuilding, treatment of medical conditions and many more. Physical activity is necessary for an individual's overall health and wellness.
Importance of Exercise for All Ages
Studies have found that the more active you are, the less likely you are to develop many common diseases such as heart disease and obesity. Individuals who exercise for at least 150 minutes per week are far less susceptible to life-threatening conditions.
However, as people get older, their health deteriorates. During this time of their life, the importance of exercise should be emphasized, not discouraged. With this in mind, here are some top reasons why and how exercise is more advantageous as people age:
Enhances Cardiovascular Strength
It's a well-known fact that physical activity is advantageous for the cardiovascular health of all types of people, but seniors actually have more to gain from it. The risk of health complications increases when people get old, as they're generally weaker than they were when they were younger.
While it's inevitable for your health to decrease, exercise reduces your risk of suffering from complications such as heart attacks, strokes and coronary heart disease.
Exercise helps to alleviate stress, lower blood pressure, enhance oxygen efficiency and slow the heart rate. Seniors can try low- to high-intensity workouts, depending on their capacity. They can even enjoy the health benefits of swimming, including cardiovascular support, and it's an exciting hobby to include in one's senior life.
Muscle and joint pain are prevalent health concerns among the older population. The lubricating fluid found in the joints tends to decrease as people age; the cartilage tissues responsible for both stability and flexibility also become thinner; the size and number of muscle tendons, as well as the water content inside them, drops significantly over age, causing muscles to become sensitive to stress.
People who experience muscle and joint pain due to age must exercise despite the pain, as it'll help them to reduce it over time, enhance strength and flexibility and combat fatigue. Check out these tips on how seniors can stay active and strong.
Furthermore, since consistent exercise gives seniors better flexibility, stability and range of motion, they can prevent unwanted falls and slips, which are increasingly common at their age. Pilates and yoga are the best types of exercise for this purpose.
Most of the time, exercise is associated with the prevention of certain diseases and other problems, such as diabetes and poor mental health. In fact, there are various reasons why you should be exercising, even if you're not experiencing any problems or diseases whatsoever.
For example, weight gain is a problem faced by many people, which leads to different health issues such as obesity, high blood pressure, strokes and heart disease. During exercise, your body generates large amounts of energy burning calories.
It also helps your muscles to become stronger and more toned, which contributes in reducing your chances of gaining weight. If you're an aging individual, then it's worth it to get into shape and stay healthy.
Dementia and Alzheimer's disease both begin with memory loss, and as these progresses, they can seriously affect your everyday life. While these conditions are a difficult battle to fight, it's been discovered that exercise can help significantly. Older adults experiencing the symptoms of dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and other brain-associated illnesses will benefit from exercise because of its neurological and cognitive functioning support.
Regular physical activity is an excellent addition to other neurological treatments. In a study conducted by the University of Iowa, they tested adults aged 60 to 80 with no regular physical activity to ride a stationary bike. They were divided into two groups: the first one experiencing light pedaling resistance and the second a more strenuous one.
After a brain scan, the findings illustrated bursts of activity in the participants' brains, specifically in the region where memories are collected and shared. Afterwards, these seniors accomplished an activity associated with memory and cognition, and showed significant improvement.
Exercise is ideal for all ages, despite varying health conditions. It turns out that seniors and older adults, who might feel more restricted in their life because of their age, can also and perhaps especially reap the numerous merits of exercising discussed in this article. If you're a senior or someone who is taking care of a senior, make sure to seek health guidance while exercising to make the get the most out of these benefits as possible.
Happy & heading home: Young kidney transplant recipient discharged from Children's Hospital | FOX6Now.com
Posted 5:37 pm, June 2, 2016, by FOX6 News, Updated at 05:38PM, June 2, 2016
MILWAUKEE — She is a first grader from Oakfield Elementary — and received a donated kidney from a teacher at her school. On Thursday, June 2nd, young Natasha Fuller was discharged from Children's Hospital of Wisconsin — a little more than a week after her surgery.
The following statement was issued by Fuller's family:
"After a successful recovery at Children's Hospital of Wisconsin, we are thrilled to report that Tasha is going home today. She still has some healing to do and will require follow-up visits to the hospital for a while, but we are so excited for her to begin this new chapter. We will be forever grateful for Jodi's selfless gift and support of her family; for the outpouring of support our family has received, particularly from Oakfield Elementary staff and students; and for the amazing care Tasha and Jodi received from Children's Hospital of Wisconsin and Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin."
Jodi Schmidt, the teacher and donor in this story, went home last Friday, May 27th.
Natasha Fuller poses with her grandparents before heading home. (Credit: Children's Hospital of Wisconsin)
Medical treatments for hair loss can give great results but according to most experts, natural hair loss treatment is far better. In fact, you can get more benefits by using the natural treatments especially for maintaining your hair’s health.
Some people prefer to take medications like Minoxidil and undergo surgery like hair transplantation but since these things are a bit costly, not everyone can afford it. The best hair growth vitamins can be counted in medication and diet both. Another thing is that medical and surgical alternatives carry possible side effects that may further harm the individual. How about the individuals who don’t have much money to spend for their hair loss problem?
If you want to go for the natural treatment alternatives, you have several options including herbal remedies, healthy diet, proper care of hair, and exercise. A lot of people neglect the natural treatments but you see, it’s truly one of the most effective if you only try it. Besides, there’s no harm in trying a natural hair loss treatment because they don’t have harmful side effects.
Let’s start with a healthy diet. The principle followed in this treatment is that the good foods you eat that make your whole body healthy is also good for the health of your hair. Improper nutrition can lead to hair loss and even if other factors contribute to your hair loss problem, this is already an excellent primary step to combat hair loss. Make sure that you eat foods with reduced fat, low carbs, and high proteins. You can try eating spinach, soy, walnuts, sardines, tuna, canola oil, sunflower seeds, and other foods that contain fatty acids and essential nutrients. Don’t forget to eat foods rich in omega 3 and 6 to maintain your hair’s health.
Individuals who have vitamin deficiencies, particularly that of B6 and B12, experience hair loss and thinning hair in large numbers and in order to address the problem, you need to eat foods like soybean, fish, chicken, and liver. There are vitamins and mineral supplements sold in the market. Ask your doctor to prescribe you with the right food supplement to keep your body strong and healthy, as well as your hair.
Another treatment alternative that you may want to consider are herbal remedies. Saw palmetto is one of the most popular herbs that can treat hair loss. If you use the herb, you’re not only addressing your hair loss problem but you’re already maintaining your prostate’s health (in men). Another example of a good herb that you can use is nettles. Nettles contain vitamins A&C. you can also try licorice, green tea, horsetail, ginger, apple cider, psoralea seeds, sage tea, and rosemary.
Getting the right amount of exercise is also needed to maintain the body’s health. If your body is healthy, then so is your hair. Exercise everyday or you can even try working out in a fitness gym.
Proper hair care is also needed to prevent hair loss. Make sure that you stay away from harmful hair chemicals so that your hair will not become brittle. Avoid frequent hair styling, perming, coloring, dyeing, and blow drying. Don’t tie your hair tightly so that the strands don’t break.
If you follow the natural hair loss treatments, you can easily address your hair loss problem. If you’re not satisfied with the performance of your medical treatments, ask your doctor if you can use the natural treatments together with it.
Conclusion-
Do you also face the same kind of problems like other? Yes, the hair problems, like having damaged hair, reduction in hair growth, hair fall issues which leads you to use many harmful chemical products which have promised you to help but is creating more damage to it. So, its time for a change.
About the author Wayne
Wayne Musick is obsessed with analyzing all the business trends and happenings in the business world. Moreover, he loves to drive around in his volkwage.
Search for:
Technology Batteries and Their Types
Arts and Entertainment Avoiding Rip Currents In The Ocean This Summer
Gaming Aqua Teen Hunger Force: A Review
Gaming Top 5 Things to Know Before You Play Fortnite
Dating Discover true love on most popular dating sites
CBD How You Can Choose Between Hemp Flower And CBD Oil?
Recent Posts
Gaming Top 5 Things to Know Before You Play Fortnite
Dating Discover true love on most popular dating sites
CBD How You Can Choose Between Hemp Flower And CBD Oil?
Pages
Contact Us
Home
Online Advertising
Privacy Policy
Tell Us What You Think
Connect With Us
Twitter
Facebook
Google Plus
Youtube
Categories
Arts Arts and Entertainment Back Pain Beauty Bodybuilding Business Buyers Guide Cannabis CBD CBD Oils Computer and Technology Dieting Electronics Entertainment Exercises Fashion and style Finance Fitness Gaming Gifts Guide Health Health and Fitness Health care Hemp Flower Home Improvement Internet Legal Living Medical Music Online online marketing Pet Care Real Estate Shopping and Product Reviews Social Media Supplement Technology Tips Travel Treatment Vaping Weight Loss Workout
Occidental College occupational therapy assistant program
Get info about Occidental College occupational therapy assistant program, registering in a technical degree program, and taking free practice tests online. Which college degrees offer you the best chances of finding employment after graduation? If you complete the occupational therapy assistant program, for example, there are a variety of specializations that may appeal to you, such as medical assisting or occupational rehabilitation. Further, due to advances in medical systems, there is a growing skill-shortage of graduates from occupational therapy assistant programs, and nursing professionals in general.
Occidental College Occupational Therapy Assistant Program Dickinson State University in state tuition Mott Community College admissions procedure Yakima Valley Community College finance department ranking Tyler Junior College academic requirements Carroll Community College online graduate programs Ohio Dominican University crop science Los Angeles, CA occupational therapy assistant program Cosumnes River College recruitment Texas Christian University scholarship UChicago medical technology LIU Brooklyn plumbing classes
Occidental College › occupational therapy assistant program
Occidental College Occupational Therapy Assistant Program Arkansas State University evolutionary biology Bismarck State College sports complex Troy State University cheerleaders Husson University assessment tests Webster University academic requirements Williston State College housing costs Essex County College tuition 2017 Belmont University African students Michigan State University undergraduate admissions 2014 North Dakota State University price per unit Cochise College medical technology Los Angeles, CA occupational therapy assistant program Occidental College online graduate programs Davenport University undergraduate admissions 2014
This website is not affiliated with Occidental College occupational therapy assistant program, and all trademarks are exclusive property of the respective owners. On our pages, you can find career training courses and updated job listings for Los Angeles, California. College Inspector is the work of a group of Thai students in Bangkok, using info from the US Department of Education, Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS). Good graphic design stems from an understanding of page design, like you'd see in a magazine. If you break down the elements that make up website design, such as color palettes and mobile graphics, you'll end up with commercial art that works well.
if only IRC had a function to ignore users based on their nickname, hostname, ident name, or some combination thereof
i rarely go to 0id.net anyway, but i have a feeling i'll become a regular considering how easily i get there panties in a bunch
Holistic Foundations for Assessment and Regulation of Genetic Engineering and Genetically Modified Organisms is a theoretical and hands-on course for NGO/Civil Society Leaders, Senior Scientists, Policy Makers and Regulators from Developing Countries. This 2-week course is a mix of lectures, group discussions, casework and practical laboratory sessions. 40 participants from ODA-countries are given full sponsorship. In addition there are 20 places available for participants with sponsorships from other sources.
GenØk and the University of Tromsø offered a masters module in biosafety in the spring of 2008. We hope to offer this again in the future when we have renewed the funding for the course.
Search results for "Infectious Diseases"
Results 141 - 150 of about 258 for "Infectious Diseases".
Nosocomial listeriosis
Sometimes I'm not sure it's actually food). A few weeks ago, while making morning rounds on the inpatient infectious diseases consult service, I went to see an immunosuppressed patient
Surveillance under pressure
Here come the maskers
Presenteeism remains the elephant in the middle of the room, and reducing it is likely far more important than mandating influenza vaccine or masks to prevent transmission of infectious diseases in
Lessons from a 1944 CIA manual
Bartlett, MD, MACP, a professor of medicine in the division of infectious diseases at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. ... Ann Intern Med. 2012;156:317-318. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transmitted diseases treatment
An outbreak in slow motion
Programs start early to promote health careers
Every afternoon, the students are taught by UNMC faculty members about various pre-medical subjects, including anatomy, genetics, infectious diseases and pathology.
Mickey, Minnie, measles
It is known that subsequently some patients visited the parks in January while infectious. ... immune. When it comes to infectious diseases, wishing upon a star might not be enough.
Lupus presentation may be an 'imitator'
Kiriakidou and her colleagues, the ANA produces false positives in 3% to 5% of healthy individuals or patients with other autoimmune or infectious diseases. ... Guidelines for the laboratory use of autoantibody tests in the diagnosis and monitoring of
Everything old is new again, with whole genome sequencing
Diekema, MD, FACP, practices infectious diseases, clinical microbiology, and hospital epidemiology in Iowa City, Iowa, splitting time between seeing patients with infectious diseases, diagnosing infections in the microbiology laboratory, and trying
It is important to press the constitutional argument here. Objections based on economic incentives are important, but their persuasive force ebbs and flows with circumstances. To the contrary, the constitutional objection remains always the same.

Almost one in five children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) does not receive the appropriate chemotherapy regimen due to medication errors, according to a new study. Published in the September 15, 2006 issue of CANCER, a peer-reviewed journal of the American Cancer Society, the study reveals that 10 percent of chemotherapeutic medications for outpatients were prescribed or administered incorrectly. Though most were of little clinical significance, in some patients the errors may have put the patients at risk either for relapse or for overdose-related complications.
In the United States medical errors cause up to 98,000 hospital deaths per year – more deaths than by motor vehicle accidents and breast cancer combined. Medication errors are attributable to almost 7,000 inpatient deaths. Medication errors in the outpatient setting are thought to be some of the most common medical errors, but they are not well-studied, particularly in children. These mistakes can occur in prescribing by physicians, during interpretation and processing by pharmacists, and when administered by patients or their caregivers. Most mistakes among outpatients are caught before drugs are given to patients, and because most drugs have wide safety ranges, most errors are benign. Children with cancer, however, receive extremely toxic drugs with narrow safe dose ranges and must be prescribed according to specific, sometimes complex, protocols.
Community Counseling Services of - 11779 - NY
Community Counseling Services of Ronkonkoma/Drug and Alcohol OP Clinic is an alcohol and drug rehabilitation program located at 3281 Veterans Memorial Highway in Ronkonkoma, New York. They can be reached at 631-471-3122.
The program uses primary approaches to treatment of Cognitive and Behavioral Therapy, Services to Reduce the Risk of Relapse, 12-Step Recovery Groups. The facility offers services in these settings: Outpatient Drug Addiction Rehabilitation Treatment.
Community Counseling Services of Ronkonkoma/Drug and Alcohol OP Clinic also provides clients with several special programs tailored to the specific requirements of clients, such as: Aftercare and Relapse Prevention, Drug Abuse Evaluation, Mental Health Disorder Treatment, Substance Abuse Evaluation. Finally, Community Counseling Services of Ronkonkoma/Drug and Alcohol OP Clinic also allows the following types of payment: Cash Payment, Medicaid for Drug Rehab, Private Insurance for Addiction Treatment, Sliding Fee Scale Payment.
Doctors at Fortis Hospitals, Rajajinagar successfully performed bariatric surgery on a 21-year-old female, Ms. Sanchitha (name changed), who was suffering from obesity
Bangalore | Written by: BNN Team | Updated: 20-12-2017 | Views: 512
The patient weighing 99 kgs had a history of weight gain for last five years and history of drastic weight gain (more than 8 kgs) for the last one year. The team of doctors who treated the patient was led by Dr Aashish Shah and Dr CA Prashanth at Fortis Hospital, Rajajinagar.
Dr. C.A. Prashanth, Consultant Minimal Access Surgery said, "The patient was admitted with a history of obesity associated with PCOD, pain in the joints and inability to walk for long distances due to which she was depressed. She had tried dieting and exercising for many years which didn't give her many beneficial results, therefore, we had to counsel her in detail regarding bariatric surgery and accordingly clinical workup was done in detail keeping the age factor in mind. After a thorough check revealed her being fit for the surgery, she underwent a Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy-the entire surgery took 45 mins and was done with 3 ports, without any post-operative complications. She was on regular follow-ups and in three weeks has lost about 9kgs without any issues. The patient is recovering and feels more active & light now."
