Comparing Two Surgical Options -- MEDICA - World Forum for Medicine
Comparing Two Surgical Options
Secondary peritonitis is an inflammation involving the tissue that lines the abdominal wall and covers the intra-abdominal organs. It has a high rate of death (20 -60 percent) and high rate of illness due to the development of sepsis with multiple organ failure. "Health care utilization due to secondary peritonitis is extensive, with operations to eliminate the source of infection (laparotomy) and multidisciplinary care in the intensive care unit setting," the authors of the study write.
After the initial emergency laparotomy, relaparotomy may be necessary to eliminate persistent peritonitis or new infections. "There are two widely used strategies: relaparotomy when the patient's condition demands it ('on-demand') and planned relaparotomy. In the planned strategy, a relaparotomy is performed every 36 to 48 hours for inspection, drainage, and peritoneal lavage of the abdominal cavity until findings are negative for ongoing peritonitis."
Researchers at the Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam conducted a randomized trial comparing the on-demand strategy with the planned relaparotomy strategy following initial emergency surgery for patients with severe secondary peritonitis. A total of 232 patients (116 on-demand and 116 planned) were included.
The researchers found that there was no significant difference in death alone (29 percent on-demand versus 36 percent planned) or illness alone (40 percent on-demand versus 44 percent planned). Patients in the on-demand group had shorter median intensive care unit stays (seven versus eleven days) and shorter median hospital stays (27 versus 35 days). Direct medical costs per patient were reduced by 23 percent using the on-demand strategy.
"This randomized trial found that compared with planned relaparotomy, the on-demand strategy did not result in statistically significant reductions in the primary outcomes of death or major peritonitis-related morbidity but did result in significant reductions in the secondary outcomes of health care utilization, including the number of relaparotomies, the use of percutaneous drainage, and hospital and ICU stay," the authors write.
Senior Care in Los Gatos CA: With the natural increase in age comes a lot of changes to the body itself. Among these changes are the functional aspects of daily operation, such as memory loss. - Home Helpers Home Care
Memory Aids for Seniors Experiencing Age-Related Memory Loss
March 10, 2017 By Ketan Shah
With the natural increase in age comes a lot of changes to the body itself. Among these changes are the functional aspects of daily operation, such as memory loss.
It can get frustrating forgetting where you put your keys or that you were even looking for them in the first place. However, age related memory loss affects more than just a momentary search for keys. It can affect the pace at which you learn a new skill. Or, perhaps remembering certain daily tasks. And some of these can be pretty important; such as in taking prescription medications.
This is where new habits could be beneficial, especially for senior care and health. A couple of habits to consider could be to:
Write things down. Carrying a small notebook and pen could be very useful throughout the day. And it could help keep the frustration of forgetting to a minimum. Also, use sticky notes to help as memory aids by placing them in areas where things are located that you need to remember.
Setting reminders, such as on your cell phone or on an electronic calendar that can alert you to appointments or other tasks with an alarm.
While using these tools are certainly useful for day –to- day activities, there are also things you can do to help improve memory for cases of age related memory loss.
The cause of age related memory loss isn't always clear. Some suggest that the condition is caused by loss of blood to the brain or damaged brain cells. So there may be activities you can do to possibly help improve the condition. Some of these include:
Walking. This helps to increase blood flow to the brain. Exercise of any sort is generally good for senior care and health
Vitamin B12. A deficiency of B12 can affect memory and it is suggested that maintaining a healthy balance of this vitamin can have a positive impact on red blood cells
Working the brain. Like any muscle, the brain needs to be worked-out. Things like doing puzzles, taking a class to learn something new, or brain games can help to stimulate the brain
Laughter: as a stress release and mood enhancer.
There is often concern with people who tend to forget things that their condition might be dementia. Two points to consider about this are one, is the memory loss something that is affecting your daily life and does it seem to not be getting better? And two, if you have those concerns, it is a good idea to
If you or an aging loved one are considering hiring elder care in Los Gatos, CA, please contact the caring staff at Home Helpers today (408) 259-5930.
Herbal treatment lichen sclerosus treatment, sci journal acceptance rate questbridge, acupuncture study online, breast cancer awareness articles 2014 philippines
Acupuncture study online,cancer stem cell harvard,world cancer day montreal - For Begninners
This blog is intended as an objective and dispassionate source of information on the latest CAM research. If you found the information here helpful, please consider supporting this site.If you found the information here helpful, please consider supporting this site. Researchers from Catholic University in Washington, DC searched the literature for treatments of carpal tunnel syndrome. A Acupuncture provides an alternative to corticosteroid treatment, according to this study by researchers at Kuang Tien General Hospital, in Taiwan. Researchers at the New York Chiropractic College in Seneca Falls compared Graston instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization (GISTM) vs soft tissue mobilization (STM) by hand.
Its effectiveness is controversial, but vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) is often used as an option before committing to surgery, according to Drs.
For the treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), triple therapy that combines splinting with nerve-gliding exercises and ultrasound is superior to dual therapy that includes splinting plus nerve-gliding exercises or ultrasound. The patients reported better pain control, but there was no difference in the use of other pain medicines.
Contrary to popular belief, not all meditation techniques produce similar effects of body and mind.
The study by Associate Professor Maria Kozhevnikov and Dr Ido Amihai from the Department of Psychology at the NUS Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences was first published in the journal PLOS ONE in July 2014. Previous studies had defined meditation as a relaxation response and had attempted to categorise meditation as either involving focused or distributed attentional systems. Assoc Prof Kozhevnikov and Dr Amihai examined four different types of meditative practices: two types of Vajrayana meditations (Tibetan Buddhism) practices (Visualisation of self-generation-as-Deity and Rig-pa) and two types of Theravada practices (Shamatha and Vipassana). They observed that physiological responses during the Theravada meditation differ significantly from those during the Vajrayana meditation. The researchers had also observed an immediate dramatic increase in performance on cognitive tasks following only Vajrayana styles of meditation. The findings from the study showed that Vajrayana meditation can lead to dramatic enhancement in cognitive performance, suggesting that Vajrayana meditation could be especially useful in situations where it is important to perform at one's best, such as during competition or states of urgency. After seeing that even a single session of Vajrayana meditation can lead to radical enhancements in brain performance, Assoc Prof Kozhevnikov and Dr Amihai will be investigating whether permanent changes could occur after long-term practice. Assoc Prof Kozhevnikov said, "Vajrayana meditation typically requires years of practice, so we are also looking into whether it is also possible to acquire the beneficial effects of brain performance by practicing certain essential elements of the meditation.
Some 30 minutes of meditation daily may improve symptoms of anxiety and depression, a new Johns Hopkins analysis of previously published research suggests. Mindfulness meditation has become an increasingly popular way for people to improve their mental and physical health, yet most research supporting its benefits has focused on lengthy, weeks-long training programs. A study of the impact of "boomerang fathers"a€"those who cycle in and out of their children's livesa€"yielded surprising results for researchers. Researchers from Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC) and New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI) have found that legislation reducing access to firearms has lowered firearm suicide rates in other countries. Music can influence how much you like the taste of beer, according to a study published in Frontiers in Psychology. A new study in Biological Psychiatry reports that smoking-related deficits in brain dopamine, a chemical implicated in reward and addiction, return to normal three months after quitting. This sort of navel-gazing can "increase" some aspects of the performance of the brain but the fact is that those countries where that stuff is more commonplace are more socially and technically backwards than the western nations.If this sort of meditation resulted in any real tangible benefits, most inventions in human history would have been made in places like India. Sure the stuff can give its adherents "religious" feelings but what does it actually teach them? Auriculotherapy, or auricular therapy, or ear acupuncture, or auriculoacupuncture is a form of alternative medicine based on the idea that the ear is a microsystem of the entire body represented on the auricle, the outer portion of the ear. Auricular acupuncture writers often claim that the method goes back to early Chinese sources, although there are only a few references in Chinese medicine texts that make that reference plausible. Auriculotherapy was developed by the French neurologist Paul Nogier in 1957 using a phrenological method of projection of a fetal Homunculus on the ear for reference of complaints and points for treatment. In 1980, a double blind experimentally controlled research study at UCLA Pain Management Center department of anesthesiology UCLA School of Medicine conducted a research study by Richard J. Auricular therapy is successfully used for weight loss, addictions, fertility, hormonal imbalances, pain management, high blood pressure,anxiety, depression, insomnia and more.
Cupping therapy supporters believe cupping removes harmful substances and toxins from the body to promote healing. The trigger point model states that unexplained pain frequently radiates from these points of local tenderness to broader areas, sometimes distant from the trigger point itself.
Compression of a trigger point may elicit local tenderness, referred pain, or local twitch response. The trigger point model states that unexplained pain frequently radiates from these points of local tenderness to broader areas, sometimes distant from the trigger point itself.
Please contact us at the number above or via our contact form on the home page.When you submit your message we will call you back as soon as possible! Since my background is in pharmacy and allopathic medicine, I view all CAM as advancing through the development pipeline to eventually become integrated into mainstream medical practice. Jennie Tsao from the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA in California has reviewed the evidence and concludes it depends on the type of pain being treated.
Indeed, a recent study by researchers from the National University of Singapore (NUS) has demonstrated for the first time that different types of Buddhist meditation a€" namely the Vajrayana and Theravada styles of meditation - elicit qualitatively different influences on human physiology and behaviour, producing arousal and relaxation responses respectively.
They collected electrocardiographic (EKG) and electroencephalographic (EEG) responses and also measured behavioural performance on cognitive tasks using a pool of experienced Theravada practitioners from Thailand and Nepal, as well as Vajrayana practitioners from Nepal. They noted that such dramatic boost in attentional capacity is impossible during a state of relaxation. On the other hand, Theravada styles of meditation are an excellent way to decrease stress, release tension, and promote deep relaxation. The researchers are also looking at how non-practitioners can benefit from such meditative practices. But figuring out how to disrupt those changes to treat addiction requires an extremely detailed understanding of how those changes occur.
This is the latest finding from psychologists at the University of Basel and their international colleagues, reported in the journal Frontiers in Psychology. As it is now countries like India would not have modern technology at all if they had not received it from abroad. Ailments of the entire body are assumed to be treatable by stimulation of the surface of the ear exclusively. The main claims are that the Han Dynasty book Huangdi Neijing states that the kidneys open in the ears, so that superfluous substances of the kidneys are deposited in the ears, making the ears an instrument of diagnosis. Practitioners claim to have identified reliable referred pain patterns which associate pain in one location with trigger points elsewhere. She has her medical degree from Europe and do not practice Western medicine in the state of Maryland. Even though there are many people seeking treatment for skin disorders, Western medicine has been unable to find treatments that are both safe and efficacious long-term. In contrast, Vajrayana meditation did not show any evidence of parasympathetic activity but showed an activation of the sympathetic system (arousal). Their results show that Vajrayana and Theravada styles of meditation are based on different neurophysiological mechanisms, which give rise to either an arousal or relaxation response. The amount of social, medical, and other problems in that particular country is ridiculous. Even Newton said that his understanding of the Law of Gravity came by "always thinking about it" (i.e. They concluded that cupping therapy may be effective when combined with other treatments like acupuncture in treating various diseases and conditions. These are pliable enough to be moved from place to place on the skin and produce a massage-like effect.
There is variation in the methodology fordiagnosis of trigger points and a dearth of theory to explain how they arise and why they produce specific patterns of referred pain.
This is because a muscle spasm refers to the entire muscle contracting whereas the local twitch response also refers to the entire muscle but only involves a small twitch, no contraction. There is variation in the methodology for diagnosis of trigger points and a dearth of theory to explain how they arise and why they produce specific patterns of referred pain. Did you make a mistake when creating marker locations or did not provide a full geo-address? This study reported in the medical journal, PAIN, verified the scientific accuracy of ear diagnosis.
He did not just believe any random idea that came to his mind - like those religionists who support this sort of meditation seem to be doing.
Acne consists of comedones (clogged pores; whiteheads or blackheads), pimples, and larger and deeper lumps (acne cysts or nodules). By combining these different treatment modalities, Chinese medicine treats acne for less money and with longer lasting resolution than other methods of acne treatment. To read more about the classifications of acne in Chinese medicine, click over to the Acne Page.Acupuncture treats PsoriasisWhite psoriasis plaquesPsoriasis is an auto-immune disorder of the skin. Faulty signaling by the body's immune system causes rapid turn-over of skin cells, which in turn causes the skin to appear silvery-white and form psoriasis plaques. Plaques most commonly occur around the elbows and knees, but can affect any area of the body, including arm pits, back, buttocks and scalp. Psoriasis plaques can occur in different size patches, from small areas to patches covering the entire body. The nails and joints may be affected, as in psoriatic nail distrophy and psoriatic arthritis, respectively. Psoriatic arthritis occurs in approximately 3-10% of people with psoriasis.[2]Psoriasis is one of the most common skin diseases in the United States, affecting as many as 2% of the population. This puts patients at risk for a whole host of other diseases and side effects, some of which are very dangerous. On the other hand, Chinese herbal medicine has been shown to be safe over its more than 2000 years of use, and constant monitoring and modern-day research in China.
If someone does have shingles it is often many years, even decades, after an initial chicken pox infection in childhood. Shingles presents as a painful skin rash with fluid-filled blisters (vesicles) along a single strip extending from the spine to the front of the body (this strip is known as a dermatome). Following an outbreak, chronic, sometimes severe pain is common along the strip of infection. As an aging baby boomer population reaches the ages at which people are most susceptible to develop rosacea, increased awareness of this condition will become more important.Rosacea most commonly affects women ages 30 to 50. Rosacea symptoms include facial redness, blushing and flushing of the face, spider-like blood vessels (telangiectasia) on the face, acne-like sores on the skin that may weep and then crust over, burning and stinging on the affected skin of the face, and red and watery eyes. Researchers have shown that these negative effects can lower self-esteem and self-confidence. Visit the Rosacea Page to learn more about acupuncture treatment for rosacea and to book an appointment with me.Acupuncture treats Alopecia (hair loss)Alopecia in MenAlopecia, specifically pattern alopecia or pattern baldness, is the loss of hair from the head. The exact cause of alopecia is unknown, but researchers cite genetic, environmental and hormonal causes as possibilities.Acupuncture treats alopecia by nourishing the body and clearing imbalances that might be blocking nourishment and the flow of blood and fluids to the head and scalp.
It is very important to treat this stubborn condition with both acupuncture and herbal medicine in order to achieve lasting result and avoid recurrence of symptoms. To read more about Perioral Dermatitis, please visit the Perioral Dermatitis page.Tinea Fungal Infections (Ringworm)Tinea is a superficial fungal infection of the uppermost layer of the skin, the stratum corneum. Many people have a genetic predisposition to these fungal infections.Tinea rashes are typically red, scaly and slightly raised. Tinea often appears with inflammation and redness around the active border of the rash, and, when very severe, with vesicles (blisters) on the border. Since the areas of the body most commonly affected are easily submerged in liquids, I also use herbal soaks and washes to deliver medicine directly to the affected sites.
Acupuncture nyc 10019
Comments to «Acupuncture study online»
red_life_girl, 06.02.2016 22:30:29
Tissues and into the lymphatic typically hair-thin.
ESSE, 06.02.2016 20:55:14
Acupuncture level UB sixty seven is the first withstand cancer as coenzymes-substances that.
ASHKSIZ_PRENS, 06.02.2016 13:36:40
Medication relies on the promotion grow.
killer457, 06.02.2016 11:16:32
It's a good idea to double test with your occasional migraine will naturally be inclined.
LOVE_BAKU, 06.02.2016 17:38:17
Stress is applied acupuncture study online with fingers, thumbs, or a device the body, and come from the Chinese belief that.
Chinese herbal formula for hemorrhoids Cupping therapy equipment ltd Chinese herbal remedy for acne breakout Chinese medicine for allergies uk Pubmed journal selection criteria help Traditional african medicinal plants 7th Traditional chinese artists used for Mental health needs of cancer patients Chinese medicine lung treatment recovery Medicine for headache in homeopathy Cancer research journal vitamin c Chinese medicine diet weight loss 2014 Chinese herbal tea egg recipe oven Natural healing family medicine 1960 Cure brain cancer naturally Chinese medicine acupuncture history youtube How do you treat cancer of the spine curable Nanorobots in cancer treatment video
Leading E-health provider Minddistrict becomes part of healthcare operator Asklepios, Asklepios Kliniken GmbH & Co. KGaA, Pressemitteilung - lifePR
BoxId: 741974 – Leading E-health provider Minddistrict becomes part of healthcare operator Asklepios
Pressemitteilung BoxID: 741974 (Asklepios Kliniken GmbH & Co. KGaA)
+49 (40) 18188266-32
(lifePR) ( Hamburg, 04.03.19 )
The Asklepios Kliniken Group has taken over the Dutch e-health provider Minddistrict. The company is already market leader in this sector in Europe with a strong foothold in the Netherlands and a well-established position in the United Kingdom. Asklepios' goal is to turn Minddistrict into the market leader in Germany, too. The aim is to improve the care of mental health service users. As a white label provider, Minddistrict's web-based platform is aimed at all clinics and outpatient facilities in Europe. Practising psychologists and psychotherapists wishing to complement their therapeutic approaches digitally with the aid of individually adaptable modules will be helped greatly. The ambitions of both companies are clear: "The aim is to increase personalised access to care, all across Europe."
Dr. Mark Willems, founder and CEO of Minddistrict, sees the further development and expansion of Minddistrict as greatly significant for the market, offering service users and therapists many opportunities and benefits: "We will have to face up to increasingly difficult challenges in the health sector in the coming years. A growing number of clients will have to be given high-quality treatments while costs remain stable. There will also be a paradigm shift away from traditional treatments towards integrated, patient-driven care focusing on prevention and reaching the beneficiaries on the go in their everyday lives. Minddistrict will help Asklepios to master these challenges and in the process strengthen the autonomy and self-effectiveness of users." As a white label provider, Minddistrict is helping other numerous mental health and wellbeing providers besides Asklepios with digital transformation in the field of mental health prevention and therapy. "This will remain the case in the future as many health facilities have recognised the benefits of digitally supported treatments. Now that the efficacy of evidence-based e-mental health products has been demonstrated many times in studies in the last few years, digital health products are becoming increasingly relevant both in the inpatient and outpatient sector for closing gaps in the care available and raising the quality of treatment", Dr Mark Willems explains.
The advantages of Minddistrict
In many Asklepios clinics, clients with depression, anxiety disorders, chronic pain, stress from work or sleep disorders can already take advantage of online solutions as part of their treatment. With Minddistrict's web-based platform and app, clients can work on their treatment in their own time at home on their PC, or on the road on their mobile device with no extra charge to pay. Clients can use the evidence based online interventions to achieve recovery, try out new techniques to use in their everyday lives or keep a digital diary. This process can be supported by a therapist or it can be performed independently for the purpose of prevention, aftercare or behavioural change. The aim of using the online platform and the modules is to empower clients to work on their recovery at their own pace and to lower their risk of a relapse.
"For many clients, the new evidence-based online offering shortens the waiting time for a therapy slot with inpatient or outpatient treatment. The therapists are relieved of the burden of performing routine tasks and can make better use of their valuable time for in-depth conversations with their clients. The software offers an advantage for the entire inpatient and outpatient market in the field of psychiatry as it enables separate content to be developed for the Minddistrict modules via a special tool which is then perfectly in attuned to the particular treatment process concerned", explains Kai Hankeln, CEO of Asklepios.
Group Corporate Communications and Marketing Division
Tel.: +49 (0) 40 18 18-82 66 36
Press Office on call 24 hrs a day: +49 (0) 40 1818-82 8888.
Visit the Asklepios website, Facebook or YouTube:
About Minddistrict:
Minddistrict was founded in 2008 by CEO Dr. Mark Willems and it constitutes a secure data, flexible and user-friendly e-mental health platform with a broadly diversified product catalogue of online modules, diaries and questionnaires. Mental health facilities and organisations use the platform and the catalogue to treat or support their patients. Minddistrict has years of experience in the development and implementation of e-mental health. Its customers are made up of clinics, universities, health insurance companies and practising therapists. Minddistrict is now the market leader in the Netherlands in the field of e-mental health with offices in the United Kingdom and Germany, as well as operating in the American and Canadian markets. As part of an international research network, Minddistrict works with numerous universities. More than 200,000 users in eight countries use Minddistrict to change their ways of thinking and acting on a permanent basis. www.minddistrict.com
Asklepios Kliniken GmbH & Co. KGaA is one of the largest operators of private clinics and healthcare facilities in Germany. The clinic group stands for the highly qualified care of their patients with a clear commitment to medical quality, innovation and social responsibility. Asklepios has seen dynamic growth on this basis since it was founded more than 30 years ago. The Group now has around 160 health facilities throughout the country. They include acute clinics on all levels of care, specialist clinics, psychiatric and forensic facilities, rehab clinics, care homes and medical care centres. 2.3 million patients were treated in Asklepios Group facilities in the 2017 financial year. The company employs more than 47,000 staff.
Online platform complements the treatment of mental health service users
Konzernbereich Unternehmenskommunikation und Marketing
Pressemitteilung Leading E-health provider Minddistrict becomes part of healthcare operator Asklepios weiterempfehlen
Here's How to Help Your Body Produce its Own Brain Booster – Awakening From Alzheimers
Here's How to Help Your Body Produce its Own Brain Booster
Home/Nutrition/Here's How to Help Your Body Produce its Own Brain Booster
A sharper brain is a less inflamed brain.
Inflammation is one of the brain's worst enemies. As you age, your immune cells can get stuck in a continual state of attack mode – called chronic inflammation – even if there's no pathogen or other health threat they need to attack.
When microglia, the roaming immune cells that are supposed to protect the brain, become chronically stuck in attack mode, they slow down the brain's ability to function properly. Your memory and thinking can suffer.
A natural chemical that's manufactured in your body can push back against this unwanted cognitive decline. What's more, it's easy to foster higher levels of this natural chemical with the right nutrition.
Getting more of this natural chemical in your body starts with eating more fiber.
The research shows that eating more fiber in your daily diet encourages the bacteria in your small intestine to churn out an increased amount of what are called short-chain-fatty-acids (SCFAs). Among these SCFAs is a particularly beneficial one known as butyrate. The pharmaceutical form is sodium butyrate.
The pharmaceutical form is currently being studied in the lab for its positive effects on blood sugar and weight loss. The early studies in mice suggest that sodium butyrate improves insulin resistance and may help prevent obesity.1
Meanwhile, lab tests at the University of Illinois show that butyrate made in the intestine slows the destructive inflammatory actions of microglia, turning down their production of inflammatory chemicals including interleukin-1β, which has been linked to Alzheimer's disease.2
"What you eat matters," says researcher Rodney Johnson. "We know that older adults consume 40 percent less dietary fiber than is recommended. Not getting enough fiber could have negative consequences for things you don't even think about, such as connections to brain health and inflammation in general."
How to Rev Up Your Gut's Butyrate Factory
Along with eating more fiber, you can also get more brain-boosting butyrate flowing through your digestive tract by moving around more.
You can find the proof in a series of studies at the University of Illinois which demonstrate that exercising alters the population of the probiotic bacteria in your digestive tract and favors the little friendly bugs that produce butyrate. The researchers also say exercise can help in this effort even if your attempts at eating more fiber fall short of what you need.
"These are the first studies to show that exercise can have an effect on your gut independent of diet or other factors," says researcher Jeffrey Woods.
In one of their investigations, the researchers took 32 people who rarely exercised, made up of 14 who were obese and 18 who were not overweight, and examined samples of their gut bacteria before putting them on an exercise program.
These people performed 30 to 60 minutes of cardiovascular exercise such as jogging, walking, swimming, etc., three times a week for six weeks. Each one of these folks watched their butyrate levels climb. And then, for another six weeks, they didn't exercise at all. That's when participants saw the butyrate levels in their bodies decline. Also, it's important to note that everyone in the study was told to keep eating their usual diet.
The scientists found that people who were not overweight had greater gains in butyrate than those who were obese. But, still, everybody in the study enjoyed increases.3
If you want a fairly easy-to-do exercise you can perform without leaving your house but that's enough to increase your butyrate, scientists at the Medical College of Georgia at the University of Augusta say you can try a whole-body vibrating platform.
In these lab tests, the scientists found that whole-body vibration can multiply the population of a friendly digestive tract strain of bacteria called Alistipes by seventeen times! Alistipes is an enthusiastic producer of SCFAs including butyrate.4You can order one of these whole-body vibrating platform machines online from many different companies.
And one more note about diet: If you're looking to up the butyrate in your body with fiber, most high-fiber plants and vegetables will do, though some experts recommend legumes like beans and peanuts, as well as oats, rice and whole grains. Foods like sweet potatoes, asparagus, onions, bananas, Jerusalem artichoke and leeks are also good.
Applied Sciences | Free Full-Text | In Vivo Efficacy of Contact Lens Drug-Delivery Systems in Glaucoma Management. A Systematic Review
Validation of Lumbar Compressive Force Simulation in Forward Flexion Condition
Neurotrophic Factors in Glaucoma and Innovative Delivery Systems
10.3390/app11020724
Sartini, F.
Menchini, M.
Ophthalmology, Department of Surgical, Medical, Molecular Pathology and of the Critical Area, University of Pisa, 56126 Pisa, Italy
Appl. Sci. 2021, 11(2), 724; https://doi.org/10.3390/app11020724
Received: 12 December 2020 / Revised: 6 January 2021 / Accepted: 12 January 2021 / Published: 13 January 2021
(This article belongs to the Special Issue Glaucoma: Innovative Drug Delivery Systems for Its Treatment)
Adherence is crucial in medical glaucoma therapy, although half of the patients skip eyedrops. In recent years alternative drug-delivery systems have been developed. One of the most promising seems the contact lens (CL). This systematic review aims to present the in vivo efficacy of different CL drug-delivery systems. A total of 126 studies were identified following a literature search adhering to the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. After full-text evaluation, 19 studies about CL drug-delivery systems were included. To date, the following drug-delivery systems have been investigated in vivo: drug-soaked CL, CL with physical barriers (vitamin E), molecularly imprinted CL, CL with implants, and nanoparticle-loaded CL. Nanoparticle-loaded CL and CL with implants seem the most promising drug-delivery systems, although initial burst drug release and patient acceptance may limit their widespread use in current practice. Clinical trials are warranted to understand the role of CL as a drug-delivery system in improving glaucomatous patient care. View Full-Text
Keywords: contact lens; drug-delivery system; glaucoma; nanoparticles; adherence contact lens; drug-delivery system; glaucoma; nanoparticles; adherence
Sartini, F.; Menchini, M.; Posarelli, C.; Casini, G.; Figus, M. In Vivo Efficacy of Contact Lens Drug-Delivery Systems in Glaucoma Management. A Systematic Review. Appl. Sci. 2021, 11, 724. https://doi.org/10.3390/app11020724
Sartini F, Menchini M, Posarelli C, Casini G, Figus M. In Vivo Efficacy of Contact Lens Drug-Delivery Systems in Glaucoma Management. A Systematic Review. Applied Sciences. 2021; 11(2):724. https://doi.org/10.3390/app11020724
Sartini, Francesco, Martina Menchini, Chiara Posarelli, Giamberto Casini, and Michele Figus. 2021. "In Vivo Efficacy of Contact Lens Drug-Delivery Systems in Glaucoma Management. A Systematic Review" Applied Sciences 11, no. 2: 724. https://doi.org/10.3390/app11020724
Incidental frontal lobe mixed density epidermoid tumor in a patient of head injury: A rare case report Gupta P, Mittal R, Gandhi A, Sharma A, Gandhi S - Asian J Neurosurg
Year : 2015 | Volume : 10 | Issue : 4 | Page : 338-340
Pankaj Gupta1, Radheyshyam Mittal1, Ashok Gandhi1, Achal Sharma1, Sapna Gandhi2
DOI: 10.4103/1793-5482.162726
Keywords: Epidermoid tumor, frontal lobe, mixed density, road traffic accident
Gupta P, Mittal R, Gandhi A, Sharma A, Gandhi S. Incidental frontal lobe mixed density epidermoid tumor in a patient of head injury: A rare case report. Asian J Neurosurg 2015;10:338-40
Gupta P, Mittal R, Gandhi A, Sharma A, Gandhi S. Incidental frontal lobe mixed density epidermoid tumor in a patient of head injury: A rare case report. Asian J Neurosurg [serial online] 2015 [cited 2020 Jul 8];10:338-40. Available from: http://www.asianjns.org/text.asp?2015/10/4/338/162726
A 27-year-old male patient admitted with a history of trauma due to a road traffic accident (RTA). The patient was a known case of seizure disorder since last 10 years for which he was taking treatment, but never investigated. The patient was irregular with treatment and history of recurrent seizures was present. Regarding the mode of injury, while driving a bike he suddenly lost his control and hit a moving cart in full speed. On examination, the patient was unconscious, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score was 4/15 (E1V1M2) and anisocoria was present. A lacerated wound was present over the left frontal region through which the brain matter was coming out. The patient was investigated by noncontrast computed tomography (CT) scan head [Figure 1], which showed bifrontal comminuted depressed fracture, bifrontal extradural hematoma with multiple tiny contusions and scattered pneumocephalus. A mixed density lesion was present in the right frontal region. The superficial part of the lesion was hypodense while the deeper part was hyperdense with areas of marginal calcification. The hypodense part of lesion was presumed to be some wooden foreign body, hyperdense part as hematoma, and the marginal calcifications as migrated pieces of fractured bony fragments. Patient was shifted to operation theatre and bifrontal craniotomy raised. Elevation and removal of depressed bony fragments along with evacuation of bifrontal extradural hematoma (EDH) done. Durotomy done in curvilinear fashion to deal with the right frontal lesion. Dura was firmly adhered to the underlying lesion. Grossly [Figure 2], the lesion was pearly white, encapsulated, avascular, soft, friable, greasy inconsistency, and resembling epidermoid tumor. Areas of peripheral calcification and dural infiltration by the tumor were present. Gross total excision of tumor with excision of tumor capsule was done. The part of dura infiltrated by the tumor was also excised. Thorough lavage with antibiotic mixed saline and watertight augmented duraplasty using autologous pericranial patch done. On postoperative day 1, endotracheal tube was removed after tracheostomy had been done. Initially patient showed some signs of improvement and GCS was 5/15 (E1V1M3) on postoperative day 3, but from postoperative day 4 onwards, patient's clinical status started deteriorating. CT chest showed evidence of gross aspiration pneumonitis, which was treated by broad spectrum antibiotics, steroids and positive pressure ventilation, but patient did not improve and finally died on postoperative day 9. The histopathological examination [Figure 3] of the right frontal lesion was diagnostic of Epidermoid tumor.
Figure 1: Noncontrast computed tomography head showing bifrontal comminuted depressed fracture with underlying extradural hematoma and subdural hematoma (L>R), multiple tiny contusions and scattered pneumocephalus. A mixed density lesion present in right frontal region whose superficial part is hypodense while the deeper part hyperdense with areas of peripheral calcification present
Figure 2: (a) Perioperative picture after durotomy showing right frontal epidermoid tumor which was adhered to overlying dura. (b) Tumor was dissected out of surrounding brain parenchyma. (c) After gross total excision of tumor
Figure 3: Photomicrograph showing epidermoid cyst lined by keratinized stratified squamous epithelium (H and E, ×100)
Hewitt DK, Kinney WC. Two cases of incidental epidermoid cysts: Sphenoid sinus and temporal bone. Ear Nose Throat J 2006;85:825-8.
Barnett FC, Barnett JC Jr. Massive bifrontal epidermoid tumor. Surg Neurol 1992;38:437-40.
Qayoom Khan HA, Sobani ZA, Siddiqui AA. Epidermoid cysts in frontal lobe: A case series. J Pak Med Stud 2011;1:95-9.
Tekkök IH, Cataltepe O, Saglam S. Dense epidermoid cyst of the cerebellopontine angle. Neuroradiology 1991;33:255-7.
Abou-Samra M, Marlin AE, Story JL. Cranial epidermoid tumor associated with subacute extradural hematoma. Case report. J Neurosurg 1980;53:574-5.
Health and Safety Executive (2009) A Guide to Health and Safety Regulation in Great Britain. (4th ed.) Surrey: Crown Copyright.
HSC (2004) A Strategy For Workplace Health and Safety in Great Britain to 2010 and Beyond. UK: Health and Safety Executive.
Waddell, G. And Burton, A. K. (2004) Concepts of Rehabilitation For the Management of Common Health Problems. London: TSO.
Freud, D. (2007) Reducing Dependency, Increasing Opportunity: Options For the Future of Welfare to Work An Independent Report to the Department for Work and Pensions. Norwich: Crown Copyright.
Department for Work and Pensions (2013) Getting the most out of the fit note. London: Crown Copyright. Available at: www.dwp.gov.uk/fitnote [19/05/20]
Healthy Working Wales (2011) Healthy Working UK Support for Health Professionals. Cardiff: Welsh Assembly Government. Available at: http://www.healthyworkingwales.com/?skipWalesSplash=1 [Accessed 19/05/20]
Williams, T. (2009) Fitness for Work After Surgery. London: Working Fit. Available at: http://www.workingfit.co.uk/fitness-after-surgery [Accessed 19/05/20]
Royal College of Surgeons (2011) Get Well Soon. London: Royal College of Surgeons. Available at: http://www.rcseng.ac.uk/patients/recovering-from-surgery [Accessed 19/05/20]
Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (2010) Return to Fitness Recovering Well. London: Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. Available at: https://www.rcog.org.uk/en/patients/patient-leaflets/?q=&subject=Recovering+Well&orderby=title [Accessed 19/05/20]
Waddell, G. And Burton, A. K. (2006) Is Work Good For Your Health and Well-Being? London: TSO.
The National Archives (2011) Social Security (Incapacity for Work) Act 1994. London: Crown Copyright. Available at: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/18/contents [Accessed 19/05/20]
NHS Camden Occupational Health Services. (2009) Returning to Work After Surgery. Camden: NHS Camden Occupational Health Services. Available at: https://www.cnwl.nhs.uk/cnwl-occupational-health-service/your-health-work-information-and-advice-employees/returning-work-after-surgery/ [Accessed 19/05/20]
Help Me Quit (2020) Trust Us to Help You Quit Smoking. Cardiff: Public Health Wales. Available at: Help Me Quit [Accessed 19/05/20]
Direct.gov (2010) Driver Licensing. London: Crown Copyright. Available at: http://www.direct.gov.uk/en/Motoring/DriverLicensing/index.htm [Accessed 19/05/20]
Health and Safety Executive (2010) Working together to prevent sickness absence becoming job loss. Suffolk: Crown Copyright. Available at: https://www.hse.gov.uk/pubns/web02.pdf [Accessed 19/05/20]
Learning and Improvement Service (2011) Work Readiness Checklist – Northants CC Employment and Disability Service. UK: Learning and Improvement Service.
Health and Safety Executive (2010) Working Together to Prevent Sickness Absence Becoming Job Loss. Suffolk: Crown Copyright. Available at: http://www.hse.gov.uk/pubns/web02.pdf [19/05/20]
Direct.gov (2010) Contact Job Centre Plus. London: Crown Copyright. Available at: http://los.direct.gov.uk/default.aspx?type=1&lang=en [Accessed 19/05/20]
Healthy Working Wales (2009) What is the Health At Work Advice Line Wales. Cardiff: Welsh Assembly. Available at: http://www.healthyworkingwales.wales.nhs.uk/home [Accessed 19/05/20]
Welsh Assembly Government. The Corporate Health Standard Award and the Small Workplace Health Award23. Cardiff: WAG.
Research at the ILH focuses on the parenchymal/vascular lung compartment with a strong translational mission. This includes the topics of Resilience, Remodeling, Repair and Regeneration (R4), with the following goals:
Resilience
To identify the key cellular players/molecular pathways and the underlying genetic/epigenetic control mechanisms ensuring the maintenance of lung architecture and its resilience to environmental challenge under healthy conditions.
Remodeling
To identify the changes in epigenetic control, signaling mechanisms and cellular profiles driving the loss of proper lung parenchymal architecture and function in acute and chronic pulmonary diseases.
Repair and Regeneration
To identify cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie “natural” repair and regeneration mechanisms in diseased lungs and to harness such knowledge for development of novel etiology-based customized preventive and therapeutic approaches. To this end, a broad armamentarium of preclinical approaches will be employed (cell culture, animal models, human organoid models, in-silico modeling; use of compound libraries, drug discovery platforms), and it is the goal of the institute to transfer novel treatment concepts for lung parenchymal diseases into the clinical arena (analysis of extensive biobank material and cohorts, biomarker studies, phase I and II clinical trials employing existent clinical study networks; alliances with industrial partners for phase III trials).
The ILH merges basic science, technological, disease modeling, drug developmental and clinical competences in a translational mission to improve prevention and therapy of parenchymal/vascular lung diseases. To this end, three closely interconnected and interacting Research Areas have been defined, namely
Acute Inflammation and Repair
Aberrant Remodeling and Regeneration in Chronic Lung Disease
Lung Microenvironmental Niche and Cancerogenesis
Currently, all of these research areas are addressed by five professorships, three Independent Junior Research Groups, four Platforms and an Adjunct Research Faculty of eight member scientists. Please refer to the individual subpages for more information.
Partner of Deutsches Zentrum für Lungenforschung
Under the leadership of Justus-Liebig-Universität Gießen
UGMLC – Universities of Giessen and Marburg Lung Center
Contact
Privacy Policy
Legal Notice
close
asterisksearchclosearrow-circle-o-downbarsellipsis-vchevron-down
Our site uses cookies and similar technologies. By using the site, you consent to the use of cookies. You can find more information on this in our Privacy Policy.
Privacy Policy | DC Tax Attorney
Learn more about our extensive experience and qualifications.
Recognized Experts in Tax Law
We offer counsel in all areas of tax law, including civil and criminal cases.
Tell us about your case. We will respond by phone or email.
Haynes Tax Law PRIVACY POLICY
This privacy policy (the "Policy") is intended to inform you of the types of information Haynes Tax Law ("we" or "us") collects, as well as our policies and practices regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of that information through the web pages at www.haynestaxlaw.com (the "Site").
We will disclose Personal Information when we believe in good faith that such disclosures (a) are required by law, including, for example, to comply with a court order or subpoena, or (b) will help to: enforce our policies; enforce contest, sweepstakes, promotions, and/or game rules; protect your safety or security, including the safety and security of property that belongs to you; and/or, protect the safety and security of our Site or third parties. In addition, if Haynes Tax Law or all of its assets are acquired, all of the data collected by us through the Site and through other means and services provided by us would be among the transferred assets.
The Site is not intended for use by children under the age of 13, and Haynes Tax Law does not knowingly collect or use any Personal Information from such children. If we become aware that we have unknowingly collected Personal Information from a child under the age of 13, we will make commercially reasonable efforts to delete such Personal Information from our database.
This Policy and the privacy practices of Haynes Tax Law will be subject exclusively to the laws of the State of Virginia in the United States. Haynes Tax Law makes no representation that this Policy and our practices comply with the laws of any other country or jurisdiction. Users of the Site who reside outside the United States do so on their own initiative and are responsible for compliance with local laws, if and to the extent local laws are applicable. If you reside outside of the United States, by using the Site, you consent to the transfer, processing and use of your information outside your country.
If you have any questions about this Policy, please contact us at 9273 Old Keene Mill Road, Burke, VA 22015, (703) 913-7500
