What is the purpose of writing research paper Purpose of Guide- Organizing Your Social Sciences Research Paper- Research Guides at University of Southern California | Purdue OWL
February 17 2019 / Rating: 2.5 / Views: 829
What is the purpose of writing research paper - Research Concept Paper- Statistics Solutions
The style manual helps keep the members of a discipline in touch with one another.
Research Writing and the Academic Paper No matter what field of study you are interested in, you will most likely be asked to write a research paper during your academic career. Following the manual will cause you to present your paper in a consistent and readable form.
They pretty much boil down to perceived irrelevance of the assignment in light of modern publishing and technology widespread plagiarism teachers buried alive grading 10-page papers from 150 students that s 1500 pages to grade, not just read. eNotes basis to start a research paperWhat is your purpose in writing a research paper? To make a paper readable Print or type using a 12 point standard font, such as Times, Geneva, Bookman, Helvetica, etc.
Describe results of control experiments and include observations that are not presented in a formal figure or table, if appropriate. A Bit Too General Much Better, More Specific I want to learn about the Dalai Lama.
Yet, a week into researching your topic, you find an article in the New York Times detailing new findings of bacteria under the Martian surface.
Such an assignment hardly represents the kind of writing you might be doing in your eventual career. By Teresa Sweeney, Writing Specialist, 2008 writingcenter writing-tips Writing Center Hours 40 Loretto Hall 314-246-8644 Regular Semester Hours Mon- Thurs 10am- 7pm Fri 10am- 4 30pm Sat-Sun 1 00-4 00 Webster University Library to schedule an appointment.
If you re having difficulty writing a research proposal, or any other type of academic paper, check out the many academic writing tips available on our website, or order a. The manual will explain how and when to make title pages and how to write headings within your paper. The opinions expressed here are his own and not necessarily those of his employer. Try to offer alternative explanations if reasonable alternatives exist.
Place your research within the research niche by Stating the intent of your study, Outlining the key of your study, Describing important results, and Giving a brief overview of the structure of the paper.
The most important parts to focus on are the abstract, the introduction, and the conclusion. Nick Carbone made the refreshing suggestion that students first learn to write using sources the way people outside academia do drawing them into the text as journalists and essayists do. In most cases, students will want to come up with a research proposal. You may know the answers to these questions off the top of your head.
Key Takeaways People undertake research projects throughout their academic and professional careers in order to answer specific questions, share their findings with others, increase their understanding of challenging topics, and strengthen their researching, writing, and analytical skills. Text should be double spaced on 8 1 2 x 11 paper with 1 inch margins, single sided Number pages consecutively Start each new section on a new page Adhere to recommended page limits Mistakes to avoid Placing a heading at the bottom of a page with the following text on the next page insert a page break! The Review of Literature What It Is and What It Does aims to build the ACW community by sharing the experiences of academic writers. Step 4 Organizing Research and the Writer s Ideas When your research is complete, you will organize your findings and decide which sources to cite in your paper.
Some of your papers may not require references, and if that is the case simply state that no references were consulted. Perspectives Identifying a problem that forms the basis for a research study can come from academic movements and scholarship originating in disciplines outside of your primary area of study.
Do not be anxious on account of a perceived lack of authority or knowledge about the topic chosen. Is your Works Cited list correct according to MLA style, and does it include all sources cited in your essay? To facilitate how you might select a problem from which to build a research study, consider these sources of inspiration Deductions from Theory This relates to deductions made from social philosophy or embodied in life and in society that the researcher is familiar with. Note that this claim need not refute other literary scholarship however, this claim should either shed light or extrapolate upon an existing interpretation or offer a new A style manual provides the writing rules for this particular academic discipline.
Name Email Website Remember my personal information Notify me of follow-up comments?
Have you quoted source accurately, including correct punctuation and spelling?
The C-C-C rule Ten simple rules for structuring papers Brett Mensh, Konrad Kording has more good advice, especially the C-C-C rule Context, Contents, Conclusion, Share this page on your website a href com Research Paper Question a One of the major parts of developing any is defining the research paper question.
The objective is to document all specialized materials and general procedures, so that another individual may use some or all of the methods in another study or judge the scientific merit of your work. The title of the Concept Paper may become the title of the dissertation. A small business owner might conduct research to learn about the latest trends in his or her industry.
That may seem strange at first, when it feels like there are so many new rules to learn, but with more experience, APA style writing will come easily. Writing a research paper is an ideal way to organize thoughts, craft narratives or make arguments based on research, and share your newfound knowledge with the world.
An added value of note taking lies in the learning process. First consider why you feel the problem is important. Have you recognized and discussed opinions in opposition to your own?
As for those who will complain that students should have learned how to paraphrase and cite sources in their first semester we ve tried to do that for decades, and it hasn t worked yet.
Contributors Jack Raymond Baker, Allen Brizee, Ashley Vel zquez. A thesis statement is generally located near the end of the introduction.
Enter the title of the article NOT the title of the journal using quotation marks to search the title as a phrase. Background information expands upon the key points stated in the beginning of your introduction but is not intended to be the main focus of the paper.
I recently returned from a brief encounter with some fascinating ideas at 4Cs the annual meeting of the. You may also need to ask a specific a broad, open-ended question that will guide your research as well as propose a possible answer, or a. The rest of the body of your paper will be made up of more major and minor points.
Tags: #purpose of writing research paper, #what is the of writing paper
company case study examplesthesis of phd in managementdissertation writing assistance yourliterature review article formatalready written essaysessay about students school successcompare and contrast academic essay topicsis critical thinking a learned skill
A report on monkey stem cells that might reverse a nerve disorder Essay Academic Writing Service
Stem cell therapy for erectile dysfunction specifically autologous stem cells, might be the "cure cavernous nerve injury – studies report a significant. Brain stem cells reverse myelin deficiency in mice -- researchers report they have used neural stem cells to myelin ensures that nerve impulses can. Nervous system injuries comprise a diverse a second experimental treatment combined stem cells with gene therapy to the final report of the. Brain regeneration: can infrared light reverse parkinson the function of nerve cells (2 lacked the visualization techniques to detect neural stem cells. Dopamine-producing neurons derived from bone marrow stem cells yield improvements in monkeys with parkinson's from the monkey's own mesenchymal stem cells. Als stem cells research stem cells treatment new inovative methods for boosting stem cells - degeneration of eye macula and ocular blood flow disorder.
Stem cell research news from medical news today skin cells may help to repair nerve damage supplementary stem cells might reverse aging. Stem cell reports article reversal of disease monkey-induced pluripotent stem cells and pharmacologic treatments could reverse hd pheno-types in hd neural cells. Stem cell therapy for erectile dysfunction: progress and future these cells may reverse pathophysiological disorder that men report to. Repair of conus medullaris/cauda equina injury using human human embryonic stem cells can now be may replace lost nerve cells and result in a.
Stem cell repair kit for glaucoma could the cells had connected with existing nerve cells it may be possible to use adult stem cells to preserve and restore. At uc san francisco where they integrated into the host nerve circuitry and helped reverse injury-induced pain may 2, 2012 ucsf stem-cell based.
Research on stem cells in nervous system disorders is one of the rats' remaining nerve cells and helped the may use stem cells from. Survived and robustly developed into nerve cells that improved the monkeys using donor stem cells, might used heart muscle stem cells from one monkey. It's not a rat's race for human stem cells grafted to repair spinal cord injuries.
Start studying neuro -22 to learn vocabulary exciting advancements suggest that use of stem cells they may report difficulty climbing stairs. Human stem cells restore mobility in suggesting that screening potential donor cells may be the lab-made nerve cells were injected into the brain through. Stem cells, vitamins and therapies for parkinson these might be a good cell source to generate nerve of stem cells to replace nerve. Repairing the nervous system with stem cells of nerve cells most of the advances in stem cell stem cells in the adult brain may have.
For more than a decade now embryonic stem cell animal research unleashes the power of a degenerative disorder caused by the loss of nerve cells in.
August 30, 2017 expert reaction to stem cell therapy for parkinson's disease in a monkey model two studies look at the use of ips cell-derived neurons and. Researchers flesh out parkinson's treatment using skin cells new study shows that adult skin cells made to differentiate like embryonic stem cells may reverse. Stem cell transplant seen as possible new parkinson's treatments researchers report they nerve disorder of the stem cells implanted in the monkey's. Scientists, for the first time, regrew bone using stem cells from a monkey, which proves these creatures are useful models for future tests. Stem cell biology seminar summary: stem cell therapy for human neurodegenerative disorders (2004.
Embryonic stem cells made from monkeys scientists report 1st lab-made monkey embryonic stem cells, which may help in symptoms of binge eating disorder. Need writing nerve cell membrane essay use our custom writing services or get access to database of 160 free essays samples about nerve cell membrane signup now and. A report on monkey stem cells that might reverse a nerve disorder page 1 of 1 continue to see the rest of the document. Researchers at rockefeller university report new findings that may upend the way abnormalities in nerve cells occur the stem cellar in your.
Code of Ethics and Statement of Best Practices – STVDIA HVMANITATIS
Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo (Madrid, ISSN: ISSN: 2386-3994) is an open access multidisciplinary academic publication that publishes original high quality research writings with a firm commitment to compliance with ethical standards and good practices of scientific and academic publications. Therefore, this Code of Ethics and Declaration of Good Practices has been adopted, based on the principles of The Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) and operates according to COPE's Best Practice Guidelines for Journal Editors and the Code of Conduct and Best Practice Guidelines for Journal Editors. Besides, as a publication that follows the Publication Integrity & Ethics Guidelines and the Principles of Transparency and Best Practice in Scholarly Publishing (DOAJ), it is expected that authors, reviewers and editors follow the guidelines of the best practices on ethical conduct contained in them.
All parties involved in the publication (authors, editors, reviewers, the people responsible for the Editorial Board, and Studia Humanitatis-REDESEP, as the publishing entity) must accept and respect the principles contained in this document. For full details on the principles of good practice, you should consult the four documents listed above and the COPE's Core Practices.
All previously published works that have been used must be duly cited to avoid their possibly fraudulent use. References should follow the guidelines and methods of citation established by Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo. Authors commit to respecting this rule and editors and reviewers should also be attentive to its fulfilment.
Simultaneous submission of the same manuscript to different publications constitutes unacceptable behaviour. The authors (see point 4.3 of the authors' obligations) will refrain from publishing any other article or manuscript that essentially reproduces the same conclusions as the research edited and published by Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo.
Editors should take care to guarantee the highest scientific and academic quality of the articles published in Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo.
Editors are responsible for deciding which of the articles submitted are published in Analysis. Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo and are accountable for everything published in the magazine. When taking the decision to publish, editors should be guided by the magazine's publication policies as well as the legal requirements relating to libel, author's rights, copyright and plagiarism.
If, when checking the originality of the manuscript (searching for the author's CV, the article's title and similar research findings), editors suspect that it does not fulfil the legal requirements relating to libel, author's rights, copyright or plagiarism, they should inform the author(s). Editors should wait for the author(s) to respond before taking any decision on the matter. If editors are not satisfied with the reply given by the author(s), or if one does not arrive, they may decide to reject the article after approval of the decision by the Editorial Board of Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo.
Authors shall refrain from publishing any other article or manuscript that essentially reproduces the same research findings presented in the articles published by Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo. The simultaneous submission of the same manuscript to different publications constitutes unacceptable behaviour.
Authors are obliged to inform those responsible for the magazine if they discover the existence of a fundamental error or an inaccuracy in any of their articles published in Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo.
In accordance with the above, the Editorial Board will work to ensure that the material published in Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo is of the highest scientific and academic quality, and complies with this Code of Ethics and Statement of Best Practices.
Editors will promptly correct any published data or information that is identified to be erroneous, misleading or fraudulent after publication. Editors should inform the author(s) of the issue and wait for the author(s) to respond before making any editorial decision. If the editors are not satisfied with the response given by the author(s), or if one does not arrive, they can decide to retract it from the publication after approval of the decision by the Editorial Board of Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo.
Editors will be guided by the principles contained in the Retraction Guidelines of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) when it is necessary to consider the retraction of an article that has appeared in Analysis. Claves de Pensamiento Contemporáneo or to publish corrections to it.
Home » Posts » Dentistry » oral and maxillofacial surgery » Third molar removal: antibiotics reduced risk of dry socket
The removal of third molar teeth is a common procedure and dry socket and infection are well-known postoperative problems. Systematic reviews have recommended that the routine use of prophylactic antibiotics is not necessary. However, they continue to be prescribed in clinical practice.
The aim of this review was to assess the efficacy of systemic antibiotics to prevent dry socket and/or infection in patients undergoing third molar extraction.
Searches were conducted in the Medline/PubMed, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Scopus, Science-Direct, Web of Science, Evidence-Based Dentistry, ClinicalTrials.gov, the EU Clinical Trials Register (clinicaltrialsregister.eu), the Spanish General University Board database of doctoral theses (TESEO), and Spanish National Research Council (CSIC) databases with no date or language restrictions. Placebo-controlled randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in patients undergoing third molar extraction were considered. Two reviewers independently selected studies, abstracted data and assessed risk of bias using the Cochrane tool. Relative risks (RRs) were calculated with inverse variance-weighted, fixed-effect, or random-effect models.
22 studies (18 parallel group, 3 split mouth, 1 two-way crossover) were included.
21 used orally administered antibiotics and one IV administration.
Penicillins or nitroimidazoles ( metronidazole,tinidazole) were used.
21 studies (3304 extractions) contributed to the meta-analysis.
There were 167 cases of dry socket out of 1479 extractions (11.3%) in the control group and
79 cases of dry socket out of 1825 extractions (4.3%) in the experiment group.
There was a statistically significant lower risk of dry socket in the antibiotic group RR= 0.43 (95%CI; 0.33 – 0.56, P < .0001).
The number needed to treat (NNT) to prevent 1 case of dry socket = 14 (95%CI; 11-19)
For penicillins ( 13 studies) RR= 0.40 (95% CI 0.27-0.59); NNT= 18 ( 95%CI; 14-129)
For nitroimidazoles (8 studies) RR= 0.56 (95% CI 0.38-0.82); NNT = 11(95%CI; 7-20)
Only 12 studies reported on adverse effects, 3 reported that none were detected. 345 patients out of 2164 (15.9%) reported some type of adverse reaction. The adverse effects were generally mild and short lived. For every 16 patients treated with antibiotics one would be expected to experience and adverse reaction, Numbers needed to harm, NNH= 16.2 (95%CI; 10.9-31.9).
the preventive use of antibiotics, either penicillins or nitroimidazoles, does significantly reduce the risk of dry socket and/or infection in third molar extraction.
The 2012 Cochrane review by Lodi et al (Dental Elf – 15th Nov 2012) looked at use of antibiotics to prevent complications during tooth extraction. While their inclusions were slightly broader they were only able to include studies that involved the extraction of third molars. This new review includes 4 more studies than the Cochrane review and the findings are similar. As the Cochrane review noted the numbers needed to treat with antibiotics to prevent infection (14) and the numbers needed to harm ( 16) are broadly similar so they considered that in light of increasing concerns regarding antibiotic resistance the benefit form use of antibiotics is not sufficient to recommend their use in all patients undergoing third molar removal.
Ramos E, Santamaría J, Gorka Santamaría G,Barbier, L, Arteagoitia I. Do systemic antibiotics prevent dry socket and infection after third molar extraction? A systematic review and meta-analysis. (Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol 2016;-:1-23)
Dental Elf -15th Nov 2012
Dental Elf – 26th Feb 2016
Third molar removal: antibiotics reduce risk of dry socket & infection https://t.co/mxjYv78vVG
Do antibiotics prevent dry socket & infection after third molar extraction?
https://t.co/mxjYv78vVG
Dry socket & infection risk after third molar removal reduced by antibiotics https://t.co/mxjYv6QV48
Derek: Did you mean to say both were in the control group?There were 167 cases of dry socket out of 1479 extractions (11.3%) in the control group and
79 cases of dry socket out of 1825 extractions (4.3%) in the control group.
The Dental Elf replied:
Paul. Thanks for highlighting
79 cases (4,3%) in the Experimental group; 167 cases (11.3%) in the control group. I will amend text.
Top Therapists for Anxiety in Malahide, ON.Counselling for Panic, Stress, PTSD, and Phobias.
Stress, PTSD and Anxiety Therapists in Malahide, ON.
Licensed professional counselling for anxiety, stress, phobias, and panic in Malahide, Ontario.
Canada Ontario Malahide Anxiety
We are told that anxiety and stress are normal parts of everyday life that cause "ups and downs." However, when it becomes too much to handle or when it feels as though it is taking over our lives, it is time to take a step back and evaluate where we require some extra support. I address the management of anxiety and stress through a psychoeducational lens and help clients to understand their triggers, develop healthy coping strategies, and improve their ability to get through stressful times. Together, we can regain control over our anxiety and stress, rather than it controlling us!
Anxiety and stress are two of the most common feelings with which individuals struggle. When these feelings are frequent and intense, often individuals' emotions, functioning, performance and behaviour are negatively affected. Through counseling, I can help you discover your sources of stress and anxiety; and how to reduce and respond more appropriately to the causes of these feelings. By applying concepts learned through counseling, you will be able to feel and function better. This will result in more energy and improved performance and productivity (e.g., at home, work or school) and interacting more appropriately with others.
Dealing with anxiety and stress is a specialty of mine. I use Cognitive Behavioural Therapy to identify and honour the deep places your fear and shame reactions come from. I believe that if you change your thoughts you change your world. The past does not have to rule your mind. We will work together to identify and change the thought patterns that create anxiety for you. I also use EEG Neurofeedback to shift brain wave patterns to support change.
Feeling stuck in a loop of stress and anxiety is not uncommon, but how do we get out of it? I approach anxiety and stress by establishing the main area of rumination and what its triggers are. By establishing this, we can explore what these behaviours are protecting you from and how to lean into the discomfort and allow it to pass and ultimately resolve.
Anxiety can feel like a tidal wave crashing into you making it hard to breathe, to stay upright, and to function. Or anxiety can feel like a pebble in your shoe that you can't seem to remove, making each step you take in life feel difficult, painful, tiresome. Anxiety can be expressed in so many ways but chronic anxiety almost always results in feeling burnt out and stressed out. Anxiety can also often result in feeling depressed and stuck. I help clients understand their own anxiety, identify triggers, and work on implementing strategies for managing anxiety symptoms, building resiliency, and finding a way to live more present-focused.
Anxiety and stress are normal human emotions. However, these can become problematic when they persist and get worse over time interfering with personal and work relationships, and social situations. You can benefit from accessing my services as I can help you manage your anxiety and stress by using various therapeutic approaches and providing you with the necessary tools to gain self-awareness and feel more in control of your emotions and yourself.
I have been trained in Cognitive Behaviour Therapy for Anxiety disorder. In the high paced environment we live in today, it is typical to have stress in your life but what if it starts to impact your daily living? How can you function at your best if you don't have coping strategies or are able to recognize your body signals? While in therapy you have the opportunity to talk out the issues while learning the skills to manage day-to-day problems. The benefit to counseling is feeling empowered over this mental health diagnoses and working on a relapse prevention plan to assist you in the future.
Anxiety and chronic/acute stress symptoms are more common than many realize and they can be debilitating. We all have 'anxiety management systems' but sometimes they stop working for us. Interventions target a gentle retraining of your nervous system, brain and body to restore a sense of balance; we will identify and develop your resources for managing stress/anxiety triggers and staying grounded in high stress situations. You also will develop your own wellness plan for supporting yourself compassionately, every day. All interventions have been honed over many years in the high stress environment of health care with patients & clinicians (Butlin et. al., 2015; Butlin, 2015, 2018).
Stress is a normal and healthy part of life. Stress becomes a problem when we are not conscious of it and signs of stress start to show up in the body. Trouble sleeping, a short fuse, clenched teeth and jaw pain are all signs that stress is overwhelming. Learn how to recognize signs of stress in the body, the associated thoughts and feelings and develop calming strategies. You will feel better!
Life can be overwhelming, I offer a safe place to reflect, process and rebalance your life. We will explore what challenges in your life are triggering your anxiety and stress and develop simple solutions based on your strengths. Slowing down for an hour with me to review your life demands to prioritize what is most important in your life, can help you say no to burnout and yes to living a happy life.
Anxiety and stress is more prevalent now than ever among individuals of all ages, males and females. Some of us have grown up or live in homes where we witness stress and anxiety or it contributes and causes us stress and anxiety. Using CBT, tools and relaxation techniques, I help clients to slow down. I aim at providing a safe and comfortable space where clients are able to talk about the hard stuff.
Anxiety and stress is a normal reaction that we all experience to everyday events. Sometimes we feel this way as a result of bigger life events that we have not been able to "shake." As a therapist, I can assist you through these emotions by providing a safe and supportive place to express yourself and to explore the origin of these feelings. We would embark on a collaborative journey to finding a place of balance and wholeness.
Stress and anxiety are part of everyday life. Sometimes these emotions can motivate us to finish a project or draw our attention to issues that could be improved. Other times it can be uncomfortable and overwhelming leading to poor performance, isolation, and/or illness. Working on anxiety in psychotherapy can include learning to become more mindful and accepting of anxiety symptoms to reduce suffering. Or perhaps improved organizational skills or assertiveness to say "no" when there is already too much on our plate. Being able to reduce symptoms of anxiety or cope with them more effectively, can allow you to work towards the goals important to you and deepen your connection with others.
You have Found the Top Therapists for Stress, Anxiety, and PTSD in Malahide, ON.
Thank you for visiting our Ontario page of stress therapists in Malahide, Ontario who are skilled and experienced in dealing with anxiety, worry, and panic in all its forms. Worry and stress can cause a myriad of physical symptoms and wreck havoc on both our personal life and our relationships. Counselling for stress and PTSD in Malahide, ON will give you healthy tools and help you move forward. Let's get started. Reach out to us today, our contact forms are "open" 24/7.
Chronic Back Pain Relief | Christchurch Spinal Kinesiologist – Graeme Teague
Finally A Fast, Effective Way To Become
Free of Chronic Back Pain …
That Only Takes Minutes!
Chronic back pain will never disappear following the standard approach to back pain … fact!
Once pain is chronic, there is more than one issue causing your pain. Sure you still have the tight muscles, the joint problems, possibly some inflammation and trigger points …
But the one factor that beats them all, hands down, as the underlying cause has nothing to do with anything structural.
The MAJOR CAUSE of chronic back pain is … habit!
Once pain is chronic, your body believes this pain to be normal. Your every day life has pain in it.
Don't worry though, there's good news and an easy way to fix this…
Before I tell you how, first it is best to introduce myself.
I'm Dr Graeme Teague, a Spinal Kinesiologist who has been in practice in Christchurch since 1991. Over these years I have seen many clients with chronic back and neck pain.
I'd love to say I helped them all … but that wouldn't be true.
In fact in my early years, I was no different to most other Chiropractic practitioners in Christchurch. I used the standard approach to treating chronic conditions.
Treatment on a regular basis and over a long period of time.
However this caused a few problems … it was very expensive for my clients, and for most clients once treatment stopped pain would return.
Unless you change the habits that have formed, if that underlying cause remains, pain will return.
Habits have nothing to do with your lifestyle, food choices, posture or anything you do in the day.
Habits are the internal habits that your body has formed. Anything you do on a consistent basis becomes a habit, no different to learning to ride a bike, learning a language, fitness etc.
Pain and its cause is no different. To understand more on habits, it's best to know this …
It Takes 31 Days To Form A Habit
Yes, it takes 31 days to form a habit. It takes a full year for that habit to become permanent.
So once pain is present, if after 31 days that pain is still there, your body has accepted this as your normal state of being. After a year, this is ingrained even further.
Does this mean that once pain is chronic it will never leave?
It just means you have to introduce new habits, reinforce them until they become the new "normal" long term habit.
This type of approach is simple, effective and long lasting. Best of all your chronic back pain will disappear and not return.
That was the good news I mentioned above. Over the years I have developed an approach to back pain that allows me to not only treat clients in my clinic (introduce the new habits), but I also teach my clients techniques to use at home (reinforce the habits).
These are not some long arduous exercise routine, you don't need to spend hours each day trying to fix your pain … just a few minutes each day. What I combine is …
A Unique Combination of Techniques to Fix Chronic Back Pain
All back pain is caused by a variety of factors … and not all are structural either.
Physically you have the tight and weak muscles, joint imbalances, inflammation and trigger points.
You can also have general health issues, fatigue and even stress as part of the cause. When you become stressed and tired for example, muscles will tighten, muscle .
Sure you can work on the muscles to ease tension, but unless you learn some simple ways to stop the stress affecting your muscles AND techniques to help prevent stress in general … pain will remain.
So to correct all of these issues you need to use more than one technique. All the techniques are natural, highly effective and quick to see results.
Fast Pain Relief – I expect clients to leave even on the first visit feeling better and continually improve.
Reflex Techniques To Use At Home – teaching you techniques means I need less treatments in the clinic, this saves you both your hard earned money and time.
Acupressure Exercises – simple ways to target the areas causing your pain AND that help boost your energy and vitality, so that once you are pain free you have all the energy you need to get out and enjoy life once more.
Free After Hours Service – I believe in offering my clients help at anytime, you can call, text or email me and I will offer you help and advice that you can use at home to help ease any issue that arises, free of charge always.
Lasting Relief From Pain – there's no point in removing pain if it just comes back in a month or two down the track. This unique combination of techniques allows you to continually assess and reassess how your body is doing … YOU are in control and always have me to help you wherever, whenever and however I can.
If you want a practitioner who will give you treatment in their office, tell you little, show you nothing to do at home … then what I offer is not for you.
But, if you wish to have a unique form of treatment, designed specifically for you, that also teaches you some simple techniques to use at home, putting YOU in control, then just give me a call.
I only accept clients who I honestly believe I can help. I will teach you some techniques that take just minutes to use, that help break the habits your body has formed and form new improved habits so that you stay pain free.
This gives you a set of tools to use long term to help maintain your overall health and keep you pain free.
If this sounds great to you, if you'd like to take control of your back pain and finally say goodbye to a life of pain then just call me on (03) 384-0160 to see how I can help.
Missing the boat: fatal ending to a missed case of Charcot arthropathy in: Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism Case Reports Volume 2020 Issue 1 (2020)
Authors: Anna Luiza Galeazzi Rech1, Yvon Stüve1, Andreas Toepfer2, and Katrin E Schimke1
1 Kantonsspital Sankt Gallen, Klinik für Allgemeine Innere Medizin/Hausarztmedizin, Sankt Gallen, Switzerland
| 2 Kantonsspital Sankt Gallen, Klinik für Orthopädische Chirurgie und Traumatologie des Bewegungsapparts, Sankt Gallen, Switzerland
| 3 Kanatonsspital Sankt Gallen, Klinik für Endokrinologie, Diabetologie, Osteologie und Stoffwechselerkrankungen, Sankt Gallen, Switzerland
Correspondence should be addressed to K E Schimke; Email: katrin.schimke@hin.ch
https://doi.org/10.1530/EDM-20-0013
Keywords: Geriatric; Male; White; Switzerland; Bone; Bone; Insulin; Charcot neuropathic osteopathy*; Diabetes mellitus type 2; Diabetic foot syndrome; Leg pain; Feet - pain; Feet - increased size; Erythema; Hyperthermia; Oedema; Pallanaesthesia*; Nephropathy ; Ankle brachial index*; Monofilament test*; C-reactive protein; White blood cell count; Haemoglobin A1c; Estimated glomerular filtration rate; Skin biopsy; MRI; X-ray; Brain natriuretic peptide; Angiography; Angioplasty; Amputation; Amoxicillin; Clavulanic acid*; Piperacillin*; Tazobactam*; Diuretics; Cefazolin*; Geriatrics; Podiatry; Radiology/Rheumatology; Error in diagnosis/pitfalls and caveats; June; 2020
Charcot neuropathic osteoarthropathy (CN) is a poorly known, often misdiagnosed clinical entity with a great variety of clinical presentations. The condition is named after the French neurologist Jean-Martin Charcot, who first described progressive arthropathic joint changes in patients with tabes dorsalis (1). Although diabetes mellitus complicated by neuropathy is the most common cause of a CN in the western world today, it is also seen in other conditions complicated by neuropathy such as idiopathic neuropathy, alcoholism and rheumatoid arthritis (2).
The pathogenesis is still not fully understood, puzzling even experienced specialists. The interaction of several component factors (diabetes, sensory-motor neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, trauma and metabolic abnormalities of bone) results in an acute localized inflammatory condition leading to varying degrees and patterns of progressive bone destruction, subluxation, dislocation and deformity in the final, chronic state. The current belief is that once the disease is triggered in a susceptible individual, it is mediated through a process of uncontrolled inflammation in the foot (2). Two well-accepted theories, not necessarily excluding each other, are discussed (3):
The neurotraumatic theory assumes, that often minor, unrecognized acute, subacute or cumulative-repetitive trauma, occasionally iatrogenic (e.g. surgery), but also infectious (e.g. osteomyelitis), causes some tissue or bone damage resulting in a physiologic inflammatory reaction secondary to the release of various proinflammatory cytokines (e.g. tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha, interleukin (IL) -1beta and IL-6). Reduced nociception secondary to sensory neuropathy induces affected individuals to not rest appropriately. Thereby the inflammatory response is maintained and even exaggerated, opposing anti-anflammatory cytokines like IL-4, IL-10 as well as osteoprotegerin. Mainly TNF-alpha upregulates the receptor activator of nuclear factor K (RANK) and its ligand (RANKL) system, which is responsible for abnormally intense osteoclastogenesis and excessive bone turnover, impairing proper bone remodelling, eventually leading to progressive bone destruction.
The second theory hypothesizes a neurovascular cause. Impairment of the physiologic vasomotoric reflex secondary to autonomic neuropathy results in a state of hyperaemia. The increased blood flow leads to a capillary leak, increasing the compartmental pressure and therefore favoring deep tissue ischemia. This could result in trophic damage to ligaments and tendons resulting in joint instability. The hyperaemia might also lead to increased delivery of monocytes and osteoclasts resulting in additional osteoclastic activity, further weakening the bone.
However, it seems safe to say, that sensory neuropathy with subsequently impaired nociception is a consistent feature of the affected limbs and local blood supply is usually sufficient to mount an inflammatory response (4).
Diagnosis is based on patient's history, clinical examination and imaging. Patients typically present with a markedly swollen, warm and often erythematous foot. The temperature difference to the contralateral foot varies from at least 2°C up to several degrees(5). A prerequisite finding is some degree of peripheral sensory neuropathy. Pain might be felt, but the level of discomfort related to the degree of injury is usually clearly diminished if compared to healthy individuals (3). Although the clinical signs of inflammation are often impressive, inflammatory markers are usually not elevated significantly. Plain x-rays are recommended as the first diagnostic imaging modality until today, providing information on bone structure, alignment and mineralization. However, early in the course of disease, before the development of gross musculoskeletal pathology, they might be normal. Therefore, cellulitis, deep vein thrombosis or gout are common misdiagnoses. MRI is the diagnostic tool of choice in this stage, demasking typical subtle early changes like subchondral bone marrow oedema with or without microfracture (6). Any part of the foot might be affected, resulting in five anatomic regions defined by Sanders and Frykberg (7). Therefore, in the absence of a foot lesion, a relatively painless, overheated, red and swollen foot in a patient with neuropathy should be considered as CN unless proven otherwise (8).
The greatest diagnostic challenge arises in an already ulcerated foot with respect to differentiating acute neuropathic from infectious changes (diabetic foot osteomyelitis (DFO), septic arthritis), especially since both may be present at the same time. In this case ulcer location, positive probing to bone or markedly elevated inflammatory markers, especially a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), may help (9). MRI is reported to have a sensitivity of 0.9 and specificity of 0.8 in diagnosing DFO. However, differentiating DFO from reactive bone marrow oedema and CN remains challenging as every diagnostic imaging modality has strengths and limitations. There is some evidence that newer modalities (e.g. dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI) might offer advantages and other techniques (e.g. 18F-fluorodeoyglucose (FDG)-PET/CT and 99mTc-exametazime (HMPAO)-labeled leukocyte scintigraphy) might have higher specificity than MRI under special circumstances. They certainly present diagnostic alternatives when MRI is contraindicated (8).
Aside from early diagnosis, instant, optimal treatment of CN is crucial in order to prevent major deformity, resulting in unphysiological pressure points, foot ulcers and other complications, often making major amputation inevitable. The mainstay of treating acute CN is offloading, ideally in an irremovable total contact cast. (2). The cast should be changed frequently to avoid 'pistoning' due to subsiding oedema and ensure intact skin conditions. Duration is mainly guided by clinical assessment and ranges from weeks to months (10). The advantages of strict offloading need to be balanced against possible undesired consequences like increased instability, consecutive risk of falls and deconditioning. Until today there are no pharmacologic remedies to treat the condition (10). Clinical trial results of anti-resorptive and anabolic agents have to be interpreted with caution for various reasons, therefore prohibiting their use in routine clinical practice. Surgery is usually avoided during the early, inflammatory stage of disease due to fear of poor healing or mechanical failure of fixation. Interventions during the chronic, inactive stage are targeted at inner offloading, for example, by resecting bony prominences or more complex reconstructive procedures, if conservative measures of treatment fail (2). Once the inflammatory process of the acute phase has subsided, transition from cast to footwear needs to proceed cautiously under close surveillance for possible signs of relapse. Individualized protective weight bearing through prescription shoes or custom-made orthoses is mandatory to prevent recurrence and ulcers (2). To ensure treatment adherence, patients must understand the disease and its potentially cyclical nature. Careful and repeated instruction in recognizing the signs of their limb-threatening condition and seeking specialized care immediately in this case is peremptory (11).
We present the case of a 72-year-old male Caucasian with a long history of type-2 diabetes and the full picture of diabetic micro- and macro-vascular complications.
In July 2018, he presented with a 3-day history of a painful, red, swollen and hyperthermic left lower leg. As the symptoms did not improve on Co-Amoxicillin p.o. commenced by his GP, he was hospitalized at a regional general hospital. On admission the patient was hemodynamically stable. The left foot and lower leg were badly swollen and tender. Interdigital spaces showed macerated skin with fissures, possible entrance portals for soft tissue infection. Foot pulses were not palpable. The ankle brachial index (ABI) was 0.8 bilaterally, suggesting a mild arterial perfusion deficit. Pallanaesthesia as well as reduced monofilament sensation were consistent with significant impairment of nociception. Ear-temperature was 37.6°C, BP 161/86 mmHg, pulse 96/min. Blood tests showed high inflammatory markers: CRP 182 mg/L (norm <5), leukocytes 15.2 g/L (norm <10.0) with 86% neutrophils, eGFR 80 mL/min/1.73 m2, HbA1c 90 mmol/mol (norm 22–39).
X-ray showed normal osseous structures, but minimal effusion in the left upper ankle joint (Fig. 1). MRI showed unspecific bone marrow oedema of the ankle joint, tarsus and metatarsus, not typical for infection. Due to slow clinical improvement a skin biopsy was performed, resulting in the histological diagnosis of stasis dermatitis, rather than cellulitis.
Conventional x-ray of the left ankle at initial presentation in July 2018.
Citation: Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism Case Reports 2020, 1; 10.1530/EDM-20-0013
Antibiotic therapy was initially changed to Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 3 × 2.2 g i.v. and then to Piperacillin/Tazobactam i.v. as clinical signs and symptoms did not improve. After a hesitant course, the patient was finally discharged.
In January 2019, the patient presented to a different regional hospital, this time complaining of acute pain in both distal legs. On the left the pain was described as electrifying, originating from the medial malleolus. Clinically, significant bilateral lower extremity oedema was found with inflammatory signs restricted to the left lower leg. The patient was afebrile and hemodynamically stable. This time blood tests showed only a mildly elevated CRP of 28 mg/L and leucocytes within normal limits. Despite of this, cellulitis of the left lower extremity was diagnosed, and i.v. antibiotics started again (Co-Amoxicillin). Meanwhile, a painless second-degree ulcer had developed lateral of the right fifth metatarso-phalangeal (MTP) joint without clinical signs of infection. Clinical examination, pulmonary x-ray and an elevated BNP of 1341 ng/L (norm <37) argued for concomitant cardiac decompensation, which was treated with diuretics. X-ray and MRI ruled out osteomyelitis of the right foot. No diagnostic imaging of the left foot was performed at this time.
Because of visibly calcified pedal arteries (mediasclerosis) on x-ray, possibly leading to falsely elevated pressures, a more comprehensive vascular review was ordered. Indeed, this showed markedly reduced toe pressures and pathologic pulse wave forms. Significantly compromised arterial blood flow was confirmed by subsequent bilateral angiography and followed by uncomplicated, successful percutaneous transluminal angioplasty on both sides. After cardiac recompensation and clinical improvement on both lower extremities along with a reduction of the swelling, the patient was discharged after 14 days and referred to the diabetic foot clinic at the regional tertiary hospital for further treatment.
Despite adequate wound management and offloading the lesion lateral to the MTP fifth joint on the right did not show adequate progress. However, the patient was not disturbed by this at all. He was complaining about severe pain in his left foot, strongly affecting his mobility. Other than mild erythema, moderate swelling and hyperthermia, no obvious pathology was detected by the treating physicians. Focussing on the new foot ulcer on the right, the urgency of the complaint on the left was unfortunately misjudged: over the next few weeks a gradually progressive deformity of the left ankle joint was observed culminating in an ulcerous lesion with purulent drainage over the left lateral malleolus through which a large wound cavity could be probed straight to the bone (Fig. 2). After all, an x-ray confirmed what was already clinically evident: right before our eyes the complete picture of CN had developed and progressed unhindered until complete destruction and dislocation of the upper ankle joint (Fig. 3). The ulcer had developed based on the severe deformity with the fibula poking through the skin from inside, opening the way for superinfection. Vital signs showed an auricular temperature of 37.8°C, BP 111/59 mmHg, and a pulse rate of 74/min. Inflammatory markers were only mildly raised (CRP 68 mg/L (norm <5), leukocytes 6.9 G/l (norm <10.0) with 81.5% neutrophils), but renal function had declined to an eGFR of 40 mL/min/1.73 m2. The patient was hospitalized immediately, assigned to complete bed rest and started on antibiotic therapy with Co-Amoxicillin 4 × 2.2 g i.v.. When blood cultures taken prior to antibiotic therapy showed staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia, the antibiotic regimen was changed to Cefazolin 2 × 2 g i.v.. Parallel to this the patient developed acute kidney injury three with hemodynamic dysfunction, interpreted as acute toxic nephritis secondary to Co-Amoxicillin. With respect to the severe osseous destruction and superinfection, below knee amputation was the only reasonable treatment option at this point, but vehemently rejected by the patient initially. Only two weeks later he and his family finally agreed. Surgery was uneventful and was carried out according to orthopaedic surgical standards. However, six days later multiorgan dysfunction syndrome developed and despite intensive care efforts the patient died on April 11th, 2019.
Clinical aspect of the left lower extremity and lateral malleolus in March 2019.
Conventional x-ray of the left foot and ankle in March 2019.
The tragic course of the case presented here illustrates the possible consequences of misinterpreting clinical and diagnostic findings by medical professionals unaware of a rare, but very important differential diagnosis of a red, hot, swollen, neuropathic foot without ulceration.
Signs of possible incipient CN were clearly present from the beginning: while the x-ray, then, did not show any osseous pathology, MRI showed diffuse bone marrow oedema of the ankle joint, tarsus and metatarsus, not typical for infection, but consistent with possible early CN. In the absence of a full thickness foot lesion, but high inflammatory markers, the treating physicians assumed cellulitis and started antibiotic treatment and neglected the subtle magnetic resonance tomographic signs. However, no later than at the second presentation in 2019 with similar signs and symptoms on the left lower extremity, but relatively low inflammatory markers this time, could have rang a bell to consider acute CN as a possible differential diagnosis and proceed with further investigations. Whether it had been there from the beginning or had been triggered by preceding cellulitis, remains speculative. Unfortunately, no diagnostic imaging was performed of the left foot and ankle at this moment as the treating physicians were distracted focussing on the newly developed ulcer on the opposite foot and other clinical problems like heart failure.
Presumably, the unhindered natural course of the disease as observed in this case, could have been prevented, if the early signs had been interpreted correctly, proper investigations had been ordered and adequate treatment with strict offloading been initiated. We believe however, that the deleterious, fulminant destructive neuro-osteopathic process witnessed after the second hospitalization, might actually have been triggered by the revascularization procedure. Optimization of blood supply has been described as a possible risk factor for the development of neuropathic osteoarthropathy (12).
The fact, that the patient complained about severe pain might be considered atypical and certainly misguided some of the physicians involved. Some pain is felt by about 50% of the affected patients (13). Nevertheless, considering that the patient walked into the outpatient clinic on a completely dislocated ankle joint (Figs 2 and 3), clearly illustrates that his symptoms were not correlating to the clinical findings at all. The tragic course of the presented case underlines the difficulty of the diagnosis, especially for professionals with little to no experience in the area of CN as well as the deleterious consequences of missing the diagnosis. Even if diagnosed earlier, the outcome of our patient would have been uncertain as CN of the ankle joint is the most difficult location to treat, usually demanding early complex surgical interventions and even longer periods of off-loading (2). The outcome of this elderly man also underlines the fact that patients affected usually suffer from a lot of comorbidities and have a high mortality (14).
In sharing this fatal case with a broader audience, we aim to raise awareness of this rare condition, helping to speed up correct diagnosis and initialize adequate treatment.
A L Galeazzi and Y Stüve wrote the draft, A Toepfer and K E Schimke revised it.
Ramanujam CL, Zgonis T. The diabetic Charcot foot from 1936 to 2016: eighty years later and still growing. Clinics in Podiatric Medicine and Surgery 2017 34 1–8. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpm.2016.07.001)
RamanujamCLZgonisT. The diabetic Charcot foot from 1936 to 2016: eighty years later and still growing. Clinics in Podiatric Medicine and Surgery 2017 34 1–8. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpm.2016.07.001))| false
Rogers LC, Frykberg RG, Armstrong DG, Boulton AJ, Edmonds M, Van GH, Hartemann A, Game F, Jeffcoate W, Jirkovska A, et al.The Charcot foot in diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011 34 2123–2129. (https://doi.org/10.2337/dc11-0844)
RogersLCFrykbergRGArmstrongDGBoultonAJEdmondsMVanGHHartemannAGameFJeffcoateWJirkovskaA, The Charcot foot in diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011 34 2123–2129. (https://doi.org/10.2337/dc11-0844))| false
Hochlenert D, Engels G, Morbach S, Schliwa S, Game FL. Diabetic Foot Syndrome, S 336. Springer Verlag, 2018.
HochlenertDEngelsGMorbachSSchliwaSGameFL. Diabetic Foot Syndrome, S 336. Springer Verlag, 2018.)| false
Strotman PK, Reif TJ, Pinzur MS. Charcot arthropathy of the foot and ankle. Foot and Ankle International 2016 37 1255–1263. (https://doi.org/10.1177/1071100716674434)
StrotmanPKReifTJPinzurMS. Charcot arthropathy of the foot and ankle. Foot and Ankle International 2016 37 1255–1263. (https://doi.org/10.1177/1071100716674434))| false
van NettenJJPrijsMvan BaalJGLiuCvan der HeijdenFBusSA. Diagnostic values for skin temperature assessment to detect diabetes-related foot complications. Diabetes Technology and Therapeutics 2014 16 714–721. (https://doi.org/10.1089/dia.2014.0052) )| false
Kiuru MJ, Pihlajamaki HK, Hietanen HJ, Ahovuo JA. MR imaging, bone scintigraphy, and radiography in bone stress injuries of the pelvis and the lower extremity. Acta Radiologica 2002 43 207–212. (https://doi.org/10.1080/028418502127347790)
KiuruMJPihlajamakiHKHietanenHJAhovuoJA. MR imaging, bone scintigraphy, and radiography in bone stress injuries of the pelvis and the lower extremity. Acta Radiologica 2002 43 207–212. (https://doi.org/10.1080/028418502127347790))| false
Frykberg RG, Zgonis T, Armstrong DG, Driver VR, Giurini JM, Kravitz SR, Landsman AS, Lavery LA, Christopher Moore J, Schuberth JM, et al.Diabetic foot disorders: a practical guideline. Journal of Foot and Ankle Surgery 2006 45 1–66.
FrykbergRGZgonisTArmstrongDGDriverVRGiuriniJMKravitzSRLandsmanASLaveryLAChristopher MooreJSchuberthJM, Diabetic foot disorders: a practical guideline. Journal of Foot and Ankle Surgery 2006 45 1–66.)| false
Uccioli L. Why is Charcot foot commonly misdiagnosed? Diabetes Management 2012 2 81–84. (https://doi.org/10.2217/dmt.12.6)
UccioliL. Why is Charcot foot commonly misdiagnosed? Diabetes Management 2012 2 81–84. (https://doi.org/10.2217/dmt.12.6))| false
Lipsky BA, Senneville É, Abbas ZG, Aragón-Sánchez J, Diggle M, Embil JM, Kono S, Lavery LA, Malone M, van Asten SA, et al.Guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of foot infection in persons with diabetes (IWGDF 2019 update). Diabetes/Metabolism Research and Reviews 2020 36 (Supplement 1) e3280. (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3280)
LipskyBASennevilleÉAbbasZGAragón-SánchezJDiggleMEmbilJMKonoSLaveryLAMaloneMvan AstenSA, Guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of foot infection in persons with diabetes (IWGDF 2019 update). Diabetes/Metabolism Research and Reviews 2020 36 (Supplement 1) e3280. (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3280))| false
Petrova NL, Edmonds ME. Conservative and pharmacologic treatments for the diabetic Charcot foot. Clinics in Podiatric Medicine and Surgery 2017 34 15–24. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpm.2016.07.003)
PetrovaNLEdmondsME. Conservative and pharmacologic treatments for the diabetic Charcot foot. Clinics in Podiatric Medicine and Surgery 2017 34 15–24. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpm.2016.07.003))| false
Milne TE, Rogers JR, Kinnear EM, Martin HV, Lazzarini PA, Quinton TR, Boyle FM. Developing an evidence based clinical pathway for the assessment, diagnosis and management of acute charcot neuro-arthropathy: a systematic review. Journal of Foot and Ankle Research 2013 6 30. (https://doi.org/10.1186/1757-1146-6-30)
MilneTERogersJRKinnearEMMartinHVLazzariniPAQuintonTRBoyleFM. Developing an evidence based clinical pathway for the assessment, diagnosis and management of acute charcot neuro-arthropathy: a systematic review. Journal of Foot and Ankle Research 2013 6 30. (https://doi.org/10.1186/1757-1146-6-30))| false
Edelmann SV, Kosofsky EM, Paul RA, Kozak GP. Neuro-osteoarthropathy (Charcot's joint) in diabetes mellitus following revascularization surgery. Three case reports and a review of the literature. Archives of Internal Medicine 1987 147 1504–1508. (https://doi.org/10.1001/archinte.147.8.1504)
EdelmannSVKosofskyEMPaulRAKozakGP. Neuro-osteoarthropathy (Charcot's joint) in diabetes mellitus following revascularization surgery. Three case reports and a review of the literature. Archives of Internal Medicine 1987 147 1504–1508. (https://doi.org/10.1001/archinte.147.8.1504))| false
Palena LM, Brocco E, Ninkovic S, Volpe A, Manzi M. Ischemic Charcot foot: different disease with different treatment? Journal of Cardiovascular Surgery 2013 54 561–566.
PalenaLMBroccoENinkovicSVolpeAManziM. Ischemic Charcot foot: different disease with different treatment? Journal of Cardiovascular Surgery 2013 54 561–566.)| false
Armstrong DG, Swerdlow MA, Armstrong AA, Conte MS, Padula WV, Bus SA. Five year mortality and direct costs of care for people with diabetic foot complications are comparable to cancer. Journal of Foot and Ankle Research 2020 13 16. (https://doi.org/10.1186/s13047-020-00383-2)
ArmstrongDGSwerdlowMAArmstrongAAConteMSPadulaWVBusSA. Five year mortality and direct costs of care for people with diabetic foot complications are comparable to cancer. Journal of Foot and Ankle Research 2020 13 16. (https://doi.org/10.1186/s13047-020-00383-2))| false
Long Term Care Insurance – LifePlan Investments
Long term care insurance is one of the not much utilized financial protection tools yet essential to protect your wealth and dignity should you able to perform your daily living activity or mental incapacity.
Long term care insurance provides you income-style benefit (most popular one) if you become unable to care for yourself due to aging, an accident, illness or deteriorated mental and physical abilities. Sometimes, even savings like retirement savings will not be enough when you need additional care.
Some insurance companies all the money you receive from the insurance company is for you and your family to use as you wish – you do not need to submit receipts for reimbursement – giving you more control and choice while helping to protect your savings and income. Some companies, you have to show your medical related expenses to qualify for the claim and few only pays if you admitted in nursing home or long term care facility.
Consider long term care insurance if you're concerned your retirement income might not last for your lifetime if your health deteriorates and government programs are insufficient to meet your needs. Or if you want the financial resources to help you choose the type and level of care that's right for you if you have an accident or need substantial care later in life as you age. And you want to protect your wealth and legacy from being eroded by the cost of care.
Long term care insurance will bring care to your home if you don't need to move to a facility right away. It will also lessen the burden to care-giver and financial support to your family if you're going to live with them. It will also manage your care and expense if you have a severe accident, at any age, that results in you needing substantial assistance from a family member or care-giver.
Manual microlife operating
Add: zynukut70 - Date: 2020-12-19 01:35:10 - Views: 5104 - Clicks: 2144
/583822-66 /201/2212b2f69d80 /529931227 /889933/185
Important information about self-measurement. 00 on Amazon and is designed for easy operation shown by the jumbo digital display. Thompson AM, Eguchi K, Reznik ME, Shah SS, Pickering TG. Read honest and unbiased product reviews from our users. Free shipping for many products! Find helpful customer reviews and review ratings for Microlife 3AC1-AP Premium Blood Pressure Monitor with IHD -MAM at Amazon. Also, you will be able to ask a question about Microlife BP 3AG1.
Condition is Used. WatchBP Analyzer+ V1. Microlife BP A2 Basic Europe / Middle-East / Africa Microlife AG EspenstrasseWidnau / Switzerland Tel. Validation of an oscillometric home blood pressure monitor in an end-stage renal disease population and the effect of arterial stiffness on its accuracy. designed to be portable and very user friendly. : (BP 3 AC 1 1 PC) Producator: Microlife Model: BP 3AC1-1 PC Caracteristici Măsoară tensiunea şi pulsul Software pe calculator pentru analiza valorilor măsurate Cablu conectare PC inclus Testat clinic (validat prin. To find out which is the right one for you, use our product finder.
Microlife Connected Health+ App. 1 out of 5 stars 50. Microlife BP3MC1-PC Manuals & User Guides. Before using, please read this instruction manual carefully and then keep it in a safe place.
Email service. a) With the unit off, press and hold the TIME button operating for 3 sec - onds until the user icon in the upper left corner of the LCD screen flashes. BP 3BU1-3 M-BP 3BU1-3_E&TR.
User manuals, Microlife Blood Pressure Monitor Operating guides and Service manuals. Download 124 Microlife Blood Pressure Monitor PDF manuals. 9F, 431, RuiGang Road, NeiHu Taipei, 114, Taiwan, R. We have 2 Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC manuals available for free PDF download: Instruction Manual, Instruction Booklet Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC Instruction Manual (80 pages).
Microlife 3AC1-PC Manuals & User Guides User Manuals, Guides and Specifications for your Microlife 3AC1-PC Blood Pressure Monitor. Microlife BP 3BU1-4 ENWrist Watch Blood Pressure Monitor Instruction Manual (1-18) TRBilekten Ölçen Tansiyon Aleti Kullan›m K›lavuzuİlginizi çekebilecek Microlife marka Tansiyon Aleti ürünleri. IB BP 3AC1-1 PC VarA5 0911 Europe / Middle-East / Africa Microlife AG EspenstrasseWidnau / Switzerland Tel. , 2nd Floor Ste A Clearwater, FL 33755 / USA Tel. Microlife 3AC1-PC Instruction booklet (45 pages).
Features of the BP 3BU1-3 1. We offer you a Navigation Manual of Microlife BP 3AG1: PDF file 4 Mb, 103 pages. Validation of the Microlife BP A3 PC upper arm blood pressure monitor in patients with diabetes mellitus according to the ANSI/AAMI/ISO 81060-2: protocol, Beime, view product. Product Title Microlife Large Blood Pressure Monitor Cuff, Fits 12-16 Inches, Model:S102L - 1 Ea Average Rating: ( 0. It cost about 0. Microlife Upper Arm Digital Blood Pressure Monitor with Large Touch Screen 4. Database contains 1 Microlife BP3MC1-PC Manuals (available for free online viewing or downloading in PDF): Instruction booklet.
Please contact your doctor for further questions on the subject of blood pressure and its microlife measurement. Europe / Middle-East / Africa. Microlife BP A3 Plus Medical Equipments Blood Pressure Monitor download pdf instruction manual and user guide. Parallels Installer manual for WatchBP Analyzer on Mac OSX. Shipped with USPS Priority Mail.
6 MB Connected Health app App Store / Google Play. : BP 3AG1 Dimensions: 140 x 120 x 70 mm Weight: 400g (including batteries) Voltage source: 4 x 1. pdf and the length of 45pages in total. Database contains 1 Microlife 3AC1-PC Manuals (available for free online viewing or downloading in PDF): Instruction booklet. +41 /Fax +41 3ac1-1pc /Email com Asia Microlife Corporation.
Email com North / Central / South America Microlife USA, Inc. The Microlife Ultimate Automatic Blood Pressure Monitor meets all of the American Heart Association&39;s recommendations for home blood pressure monitors: third party validations for accuracy, the ability to take 2 or more readings and average them, and the ability to store readings and transmit them to your doctor. Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC Navigation Manual 1. FaxEmail service.
Blood pressure monitors, digital thermometers, respiratory care devices and flexible heating are Microlife's core business. Espenstrasse 139. We suggest you get a user manual for any type of Microlife Blood Pressure Monitor. Microlife microlife 3ac1-1pc operating manual can provide the correct blood pressure monitor for every need. Select the User This blood pressure monitor is designed to store 99 measurements for each of two users.
Asthma Analyzer 3. , 2nd Floor Ste A. It&39;s very user-friendly and easy to master. Microlife USA, Inc. com is the number 1 user manual database with over 300,000 free user manuals! Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC. 0 ) out of 5 stars Current Price .
User Manuals, Guides and Specifications for your Microlife BP3MC1-PC Blood Pressure Monitor. Summary of Contents for Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC Page 1 Tel. Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC According to patients who have used the product it is very impressive, easy-to-use and accurate. Microlife Corporation. Microlife Blood Pressure Monitor BP 3AG1 Navigation Manual download free. 5 V alkaline batteries; size AA or mains adapter DC 6V, 600 mA (optional). Find the right blood pressure monitor.
Comparison of the Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC with the Microlife BP 3AC1-1 Devices Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC Microlife BP 3AC1-1 Pictures Validation BHS - A/A grading Device 1 Criteria PAD - Pulse microlife 3ac1-1pc operating manual Arrhythmia Detection 11, 13 Memory: 99 measurements 14 USB Port 16 PC Link 18 Same Criteria MAM (average mode) or standard mode selection. Blood Press Monit. The technology used in the Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC, to measure blood pressure, has passed in a clinical validation study, in a specific population, according to a recognised standard protocol, as published in a peer-reviewed publication.
1617 Gulf to Bay Blvd. FaxEmail Summary of Contents for Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC Page 1 Tel. View online Instruction booklet for Microlife 3AC1-AP Blood Pressure Monitor or simply click Download button to examine the Microlife 3AC1-AP guidelines offline on your desktop or laptop computer.
9443 Widnau / Switzerland. Fax +41 /. A partner for people. ESH-IP: - Pass ESRD (n=33) Videos (tutorials) Documents (manuals).
Microlife Deluxe Automatic Blood Pressure Monitor. Microlife Corporation is a medical diagnostics company that specializes in the development and manufacture of blood pressure monitors, digital thermometers and asthma management devices. Operating System EN. 73 MB WIN XP / Vista.
+41 /. 10:47 Page 3 Wrist Watch Blood Pressure Monitor Table of contents Instruction Manual 1. ESH-IP: - Pass ESRD (n=33).
Find many great new & used options and get the best deals for Microlife Blood Pressure Monitor 2 Cuffs Powered on Keep Track of Your Health at the best online prices at eBay! The manual was created in PDFformat with the filename of mlu3ac1-sep01-1. It is fully automatic when inflating or deflating the cuff. , Suite C Dunedin, FL 34698 / USA Tel. Fax. Medel Idea (91913 IDEA) Medipro MediCare 100f Microlife BP 3AC1-1 Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC Microlife BP 3BT0-AP Microlife BP. Microlife is one of the world leaders in the development and manufacturing of medical diagnostic equipment for home monitoring and institutional use. Leia atentamente este manual de instruções antes de utilizar.
Before taking a measurement, be certain that the correct user has been selected. 424 Skinner Blvd. 9F, 431, RuiGang Road, NeiHu Taipei, 11492, Taiwan, R. Magazine şi preţuri - Tensiometre Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC de la 0,00 RON! FaxEmail Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC Manuals Manuals and User Guides for Microlife BP 3AC1-1 PC. Instruction Manual Summary The manual was written in by Microlifeand applied to 3AC1-AP, 3AC1-PC, 3AC1-PCCOS, BP3AC1-1PC. Email North / Central / South America.
On this page you can download this Navigation Manual and read it online. Aug;12(4):227-32. The manual were called as Instruction Manual. a) With the unit off, press microlife 3ac1-1pc operating manual and hold the TIME button for 3 sec-onds until the user icon in the upper left corner of the LCD screen flashes.
American-Sino OB/GYN/Pediatrics Services is committed to providing comprehensive and compassionate medical care to children and their families. We provide quality newborn, pediatric and adolescent healthcare with an emphasis towards patient education and community involvement. Our team of physicians, nurses and specialized pediatric health care professionals offer physicals, immunizations, nutrition and diet counseling, development guidance, child safety education, assistance with family dynamics, infant care education and breastfeeding support. We understand what interests’ children and most importantly what helps them heal, that is why we designed our health care center to be comfortable, colorful and soothing for children with a play area and kids’ entertainment.
