Immunovia appoints new Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications
Published: Nov. 26, 2021 at 3:10 AM EST
LUND, Sweden, Nov. 26, 2021 /PRNewswire/ -- Immunovia AB (publ) announces that Tobias Bülow has been appointed new Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, taking up his position January 15. Tobias has s solid IR and Corporate Communications background with extensive experience from international high-tech companies.
Tobias joins Immunovia from Mycronic AB (publ), where he most recently held the position of Director Investor Relations. Previous experiences include Director Financial Communications at the radiation therapy company Elekta AB (publ).
"I am very pleased to welcome Tobias to Immunovia and the role as Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Tobias has a solid international background from leading positions and companies. I am convinced he has the drive, skills, and experience to contribute in shaping Immunovia's continued journey," says Patrik Dahlen, CEO of Immunovia.
Patrik Dahlen, CEO Immunovia
Email: patrik.dahlen@immunovia.com
Tel: +46 73 376 76 64
About Immunovia
Immunovia AB is a diagnostic company that is developing and commercializing highly accurate blood tests for the early detection of cancer based on Immunovia's proprietary test platform called IMMray™. Tests are based on antibody biomarker microarray analysis using advanced machine-learning and bioinformatics to single-out a set of relevant biomarkers that indicate a certain disease. Thus, forming a unique "disease biomarker signature".
The company was founded in 2007, based on cancer studies and ground-breaking research in the Department of Immuntechnology at Lund University and CREATE Health Cancer Center, Sweden.
The first product, IMMray™ PanCan-d, is undergoing clinical evaluation in some of the world's largest clinical studies for high risk groups in pancreatic cancer, PanFAM-1, PanSYM-1 and PanDIA-1.
In 2017, Immunovia, Inc. was established in Marlborough, Massachusetts, USA. The IMMray™ PanCan-d test, the first blood-based test dedicated to the early detection of pancreatic cancer on the market, is offered as a laboratory developed test (LDT) exclusively through Immunovia, Inc. For more information see: www.immunoviainc.com.
Immunovia's shares (IMMNOV) are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. For more information, please visit www.immunovia.com.
https://news.cision.com/immunovia-ab/r/immunovia-appoints-new-senior-director-investor-relations-and-corporate-communications,c3461283
https://mb.cision.com/Main/13121/3461283/1502042.pdf
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/immunovia-appoints-new-senior-director-investor-relations-and-corporate-communications-301432301.html
Heather C. Chilcote M.D. | UW Medicine
Heather C. Chilcote M.D.
About Heather C. Chilcote
Heather Chilcote, M.D., is a board certified pediatrician at the UW Neighborhood Shoreline Clinic and a UW clinical instructor of Pediatrics.
Dr. Chilcote is not currently accepting new patients but may accept relatives of current patients. She believes that providing care for children and their families is a privilege. She enjoys partnering with parents to provide the best therapeutic and preventative care that will help their children thrive.
Dr. Chilcote earned her M.D. at the UW. Her clinical and research interests include ADD/ADHD, asthma and sports medicine.
Dr. Chilcote was born and raised in the Seattle area and feels lucky to continue to call it home. In her free time she enjoys rock climbing, hiking, paddling and skiing. She also enjoys mystery novels, animals and sharing good food with friends and family.
Does time heal the wound? Loni v MEC for Health discussed
Published Works | Insurance Gateway | 6 March 2018
Loni v MEC for Health discussed
Yet again, the Constitutional Court (CC) was called upon to determine the meaning of deemed knowledge in terms of section 12(3) of the Prescription Act 68 of 1969 (the Prescription Act) in respect of a medical negligence claim in Loni v MEC for Health, Eastern Cape [2018] ZACC 2 delivered on 22 February 2018. In 2016, the CC had analysed and pronounced on this issue in Links v MEC for Health, Northern Cape Province 2016 (4) SA 414 (CC). Essentially in Loni, the court was required to either re-affirm or augment the principles enunciated in Links having regard to the personal circumstances of Mr Loni.
The facts were as follows. On 6 August 1999, Mr Loni was admitted in hospital after sustaining a gunshot wound in his left buttock that shattered his left femur. The bullet was lodged in his body. Upon arrival at the hospital, he was given an injection for pain and x-rays were taken.
On 10 August 1999, an operation was performed to insert a plate and screws on his femur. Strangely, he was discharged from hospital with painkillers and crutches without the bullet being removed. He was also given his medical file so that if the painkillers or the wound cleaning items ran out, he could visit the nearest clinic.
In January/February 2000, he went to the hospital. He was examined by a doctor who took x-rays and told him to use one crutch instead of the two. After some time, the gunshot entry wound healed. However, the operation took longer to heal. Pus oozed out of the wound and an infection set in. While at home, he noticed a yarn in the wound but was unable to remove it. He returned to the hospital and the pin was removed. The wound closed and a month later the pus stopped oozing.
During December 2000, while Mr Loni was at an initiation school, his left leg became swollen and he removed the bullet himself. He returned to the hospital and he was informed that his leg was fine. At some stage, he developed a limp. In 2008, Mr Loni secured employment and approached doctors in private practice to establish the reason for his limp and the constant pain in his leg. He was informed that he was disabled.
In November 2011, Dr Olivier, an orthopaedic surgeon considered Mr Loni's hospital file and advised him that his condition was attributable to medical negligence. The summons was served on 20 June 2012 on the MEC for Health. The MEC raised the defence of prescription. Mr Loni denied that his claim had prescribed as alleged. He submitted that before he met Dr Olivier, he was unaware that he had a claim for damages against the MEC. He averred that he only acquired that knowledge in November 2011 when Dr Olivier advised him that the medical staff at the hospital had been negligent.
According to section 12(3) of the Prescription Act, "a debt shall not be deemed to be due until the creditor has knowledge of the identity of the debtor and of the facts from which the debt arises: Provided that a creditor shall be deemed to have such knowledge if he could have acquired it by exercising reasonable care".
In arriving at its judgment, the CC considered the judgment of Links, were the court held that, "however, in cases of this type, involving professional negligence, the party relying on prescription must at least show that the plaintiff was in possession of sufficient facts to cause them on reasonable grounds to think that the injuries were due to the fault of the medical staff. Until there are reasonable grounds for suspecting fault so as to cause the plaintiff to seek further advice, the claimant cannot be said to have knowledge of the facts from which the debt arises".
In this regard, Links was distinguishable to the facts of this matter. In Links, the plaintiff required expert medical opinion to establish that the treatment that he had received had been negligent and to draw the causative link between the harm suffered and the negligent treatment.
In applying the principles enunciated in Links to the facts before it, the court held as follows, "the applicant (Loni) should have over time suspected fault on the part of the hospital staff. There were sufficient indicators that the medical staff had failed to provide him with proper care and treatment, as he still experienced pain and the wound was infected and oozing pus. With that experience, he could not have thought or believed that he had received adequate medical treatment. Furthermore, since he had been given his medical file, he could have sought advice at that stage. There was no basis for him to wait more than seven years to do so. His explanation that he could not take action as he did not have access to independent medical practitioners who could explain to him why he was limping or why he continued to experience pain in his leg, does not help him either. The applicant had all the necessary facts, being his personal knowledge of his maltreatment and a full record of his treatment in his hospital file, which gave rise to his claim. This knowledge was sufficient for him to act. This is the same information that caused him to ultimately seek further advice in 2011".
In addition, the court held that, "it is clear, that long before the applicant's discharge from hospital in 2001 and certainly thereafter, the applicant had knowledge of the facts upon which his claim was based. He had knowledge of this treatment and the quality (or lack thereof) from his first day in hospital and had suffered pain on a continuous basis subsequent thereto. The fact that he was not aware that he was disabled or had developed osteitis is not the relevant consideration".
The CC re-affirmed the principles enunciated in Links in terms of test to be applied to the meaning of deemed knowledge in terms of section 12(3) of the Prescription Act. Evidently, this test is not only limited to assessment of prescription in terms of medical negligence matters but, I submit, that it will include or is applicable to other professional negligence matters. As the old law maxim goes, every matter is to be determined on its own facts or circumstances. So, does time heal the wound? Legally, it depends on the circumstances of each case. As for Mr Loni, sadly it did not.
Also published in Engineering News and on Polity.org
Litigation Services Insurance Litigation
98SHc42/Fo2ehYxhDOjxz5KYnvCqpNsZQMRJjhPaqBitUawzdI32mn8+xpVo/1ds {7FD42412-5FEA-4000-A3C9-EDD6F1AB147B} 98SHc42/Fo2ehYxhDOjxz5KYnvCqpNsZQMRJjhPaqBitUawzdI32mn8+xpVo/1ds {C20F5233-5D46-4B55-99E6-301AA6789AC8} What would you like to discuss?
The National Disease Registration Service (NDRS) collects data on people in England with cancer, congenital anomalies and rare diseases.
NDRS is made up of two disease registers:
NCRAS – National Cancer Registration and Analysis Service
NCARDRS – National Congenital Anomaly and Rare Disease Registration Service
Why do we collect patient data?
Patient data helps us better understand and treat cancer, rare diseases and congenital anomalies. This data is used by NHS clinical teams to help plan and improve treatments and healthcare in England. It also helps academics and charities with research and policy making .
If you would like to see some examples of how patient data has been used for research, you can read our Data Stories or watch our webinar recordings.
Examples of data we collect:
hospital episode statistics which tell us how often someone with cancer attends hospital and the treatment they received
information on treatments to monitor their effectiveness
the number of babies born with congenital anomalies each year
How is patient data kept safe?
Only a limited number of highly trained NDRS staff have access to personally identifiable data. Academic researchers, charities, NHS clinical teams and commissioners can request permission to access the data under strict and secure arrangements.
admin 24.03.2014 Comments
In a time when the economy continues to be difficult to navigate and many people are considering their career options, you might be wondering if it's the right time to start massage school. One of the best ways to pay for massage school is to earn a ...
Occurring in 30 percent of women over 35 years of age, uterine fibroids comprise the majority of benign pelvic tumors of women. The "Encyclopedia of Natural Healing" explains that the increase of fibroids is directly related to the increase of dietar...
What are the symptoms of herpes in the mouth look
Ingresa al servicio de Pediatria y es valorada por el servicio de Dermatologia del Hospital General G Dr. Comerntarios: se concluyo en un Herpes Zoster oftalmico derecho (rama superior del nervio trigemino) Lo presentamos por lo poco frecuente del He...
Energy star windows 8.1
Is there any ayurvedic medicine for thyroid
Send Home Our method Usage examples Index Contact StatisticsWe do not evaluate or guarantee the accuracy of any content in this site. The herpes simplex is a disease that is caused by two viruses, herpes 1 and herpes 2, generally referred to simply ...
Can you get genital herpes if the person doesn have an outbreak
admin 23.03.2014 Comments
Herpe dating sites free youtube Energy boost esm masculino How does herpes look like when it first starts Herpes simplex type 1 igg antibodies food Role of traditional healers in south africa Herpes labial tratamento caseiro e rapido How do you get herpes simplex infection Cold sores genital herpes same xbox Improving energy efficiency in your home Cold sores on lips treatment at home urdu Natural healing herbs and spices vocabulary Gbf yuuki Folk medicine in southern appalachia quotes Homeopathy vs allopathy for anxiety Prescription for herpes type 1 youtube
REGISTERED NURSE (DIRECT HIRE) at VA Medical Center in Wilmington, DE | Nursingjobsplus.com
34eeeb Categories:
Medical/Surgical Engineering CNO/Nurse Executive Critical Care Medicine Hospice/Palliative Care Nurse Manager Telemetry IV Therapy Wound Care VA Medical Center Saved!
Wilmington VA Medical Center is seeking innovative Registered Nurses to become part of our Healthcare Team. This is an open and continuous posting in which you will identify the areas in which you are interested in working. Areas include inpatient and outpatient areas to provide care to our Nation's Veterans. The Registered Nurse is responsible and accountable for all elements of the nursing process when providing and/or supervising direct patient care. She/he assesses, plans, implements and evaluates care based on age-specific components. Assumes responsibility for the coordination of care focused on patient transition through the continuum of care, patient and family education, patient self-management, and supporting factors that impact customer satisfaction. Considers all characteristics of the individual, including age and life stages, state of health, race and culture, values, and previous experiences. Administers medications and procedures per established policies and guidelines. Influences care outcomes by collaborating with members of the interdisciplinary team. Core elements of performance include knowledge and active participation in unit/program level quality improvement processes and initiatives as well as customer service programs. The RN works at all times within the parameters of her/his license and reports to the Nurse Manager; the Associate Chief Nurse; and the Chief Nurse Executive/Associate Director for Patient Care Services. This announcement covers multiple areas within the Wilmington VAMC. Eligible applicants will be referred based on answers to the Occupational Questionnaire (Area of Specialty)The specific areas of specialty include: --Ambulatory Surgery--Community Health --Community Living Center - Hospice/Wound Care --Dialysis --Emergency Department--Education --ICU --Medical Surgery/Telemetry --Operating Room --Pain Management --Perianesthesia --Primary Care/Ambulatory --GI --Home Based Primary Care --Specialty Clinics (Audiology, Chemo, Dermatology, etc) Work Schedule: Work schedules will vary based upon the current vacancy and the needs of the Service, to include weekends, nights & holidays.Functional Statement Title/#: Registered Nurse I, II, IIIBargaining Unit: AFGE 1276
REF - Open Access - LibGuides at University of Hull
Open Access: REF
What's next after REF2021?
The four UK funding bodies – Research England, Scottish Funding Council, Higher Education Funding Council for Wales and Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland – introduced a policy requirement on open access in Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
As the shape of a future research assessment exercise is yet to be determined, it is not feasible at this stage to define the specifics of a future open access policy. The funding bodies will make a decision about this policy through the Future Research Assessment Programme, based on:
an evaluation of open access in REF 2021.
You should follow the REF 2021 open access policy and guidance until further notice.
Source: Publishing the Findings of Research England-funded Research, 17 Aug 2021.
Research England's REF2021 Guidance on Submissions addresses < span="">Open Access in paragraphs 105-114 and 223-255. These are summarised in an Overview published in Nov 2019.<>
In order to be eligible for submission to REF2021, all journal articles and conference papers published in a journal must be deposited in an insitutional or subject-based repository (such as Worktribe) within 3 months of the date of acceptance for publication.
The author's accepted manuscript, or the published version, must be open access as soon as possible after the date of publication: no later than 12 months for REF Panels A&B (STEM) , and 24 months for Panels C&D (AHSS). This obligation came into force for articles accepted 1st April 2016 to date.
Open access can be achieved through Gold or Green routes. Research England has not expressed any preference for 'gold'; there is no expectation that authors will pay to publish.
The work must be made available with an open licence (such as Creative Commons), downloadable, and machine readable.
Research England has agreed a list of exceptions to the policy, where an author or institution is unable to meet the criteria for deposit or access to articles. At the University of Hull, Associate Deans for Research have oversight of the use of exceptions.
Institutions which demonstrate engagement with open access beyond the minimum specifications of the policy may be rewarded through their Research Environment score.
If your research output relates to a funded project, your funder's criteria for open access may be more stringent than the REF. Check your funder's terms.
University of Hull process for complying with REF Open Access criteria
This is a simplified representation of the process of depositing research output in Worktribe for University of Hull authors. Not every scenario is captured by this visualisation. Contact repository@hull.ac.uk if you have any questions.
Die Erkenntnis, dass der Handel mit Counting the Gains at ICO Polymers - Download Center - MicrosoftInformation sharing - The Scottish Government EOL CEO Jan Smith Analyses £100,000 ICO Fine for Kent Police icofxREGISTERED ADDRESS Services with FREE Mail Forwarding UK Company Fined £90,000 as ICO Gets Tough on Illegal
Isle of Man Government - Isle of Man Information CommissionerICO fines the Money Shop £180,000 - Ediscovery.com Bithumb and Coinone Under Tax Investigation – ICOnow – ICO Prosense ICO: First decentralized VR platform Tribunal obscures ICO Guidance on Freedom Of Information
ICO hopes to crumble cookie law | IT PROSchool of Biomedical Sciences Administration OneCoin affiliates claim IPO dropped, ICO to take place in Oct, 2018Neufund The law on using CCTV on your premises | Cordery
Ullmanns Food and Feed, 3 Volume Set - Google Books Result
Safe ContractoriCobus: Telecommunications & Data Cabling Recruitment Agency status ico guidelinesICO Fines Moneysuperarket £80,000 For Spamming CustomersICO looking for 200 staff to help with GDPR compliance ico coin freeCoindash ico coin tiềm năngBitcoin, blockchain and initial coin offerings: A global review of
Enterprise Email Security: Prevent Email Data Breaches 3 real iconsBABB - Everyone is a bankWaves Platform Sirin LabsICO
ASFF - Q&A with Adam Pugh, Curator of ICO and LUX's The Artists indaHash ICO: 130 person team, 7 offices, 300 000 influencers in invest in blockchain startups zoom Renationalising railways, ICO's go mainstream and Nationwide ICO Senior Policy Officer joins DUC 2016 Masterclass experts 5 crypto icons Bradford firms hit with ICO fines | Insider Media Ltd
Neblio: ICO Analysis — Steemit A year on from High Court case blacklisting battle continuesICONIQ Motors b token cryptoLessons from a $10 Million ICO (Po.et), CEO of Madhive, and CEO ICO fines the Money Shop for data breach involving thousands of
ICO GDPR is an evolution of existing law rather than revolution ico list best Interview: Bitcoin Exchange Binance on China's ICO Ban, Burning ico market 4pda Data Protection update - August 2017 - Stephenson HarwoodICO fines East Lincolnshire Council £80,000 for losing sensitive data companies investing in blockchain uk Advantages And Disadvantages of Data Protection Registration
Home - Nagico Insurances: Nagico Insurances best ico news Silk and linen organza dress, white - "ICO" Max Mara s token struts2 KickICO - CryptoRated: Community-governed ICO Reviews & RatingsOops! Info watchdogs exposed in embarrassing email gaffes - NO2NP u ico bitcoins How To Avoid ICO Scams - ValueWalk
Contact | DCBL
ICO issue warning about data protection breaches — Security
ICO publishes updated Subject Access Code of PracticeShiftCash - Largest Ethereum ICO StoriqaATOS LIES. ICO now involved. — Scope | Disability forum b real icons Data Protection | Secretariat ico xrp ICO clarifies registration and fee requirements under GDPR | White
ICO fines financial companyICO Audit of SPS Data Protection March 2013 - Scottish Prison Service BLP advises on ICO of Atlant, real estate platform in blockchain GDPR: What it is and why it matters - Barclays Corporate ico market statistics Lendy - The crowdfunding marketplace for loans secured on UK invest in blockchain companies uk Property118 | ICO Data Protection clampdown on letting and estate
DigitalX | ICO Advisory and Blockchain Consulting ServicesGlobal ICO Fund - The future of investing Head Office (ICO) - ED GroupImpeccable Culinary Objects (ICO) ICO004 Whipper, Cream blockchain platform 700 Data protection - Institute of Fundraising lazooz token sale Senior Policy Officer ICO, Jobs in Belfast - NIjobs.com
Electroneum – The mobile based cryptocurrency – Electroneum Risk UK ICO survey shows many councils "have work to do" to Department of Health v the ICO – Legal judgement (PDF) - ADRNCareers – Bitcoin Suisse best ico coins 2018 Councils, government and health service under scrutiny by the ICO token query parameter is missing quickbooks IDPE Online Community
Corporate Presentation - iCo Therapeutics Inc.ICO Fines Carphone Warehouse £400,000 for Data Breach | News The Scottish Information Commissioner's TeamData Protection | Acas ico crypto online Antonio Cordero - ICO Hed of Funding and Treasury - ICO blockchain platform health ICO ruling leaves badger cull farmers vulnerable to intimidation from
Contributors | ICO Blog
Data Protection and Freedom of Information Office - University of best way to invest in blockchain in india ICO insists GDPR guidance will cover legitimate interest Genesis Vision blockchain investment services What the ICO guidance on GDPR says, and what we think about it a token of appreciation FOND-ICO GLOBAL has mobilized nearly €2 - AXIS - Grupo ICOFMCG & Retail Executive Recruitment Specialists - Mackenzie Stuart
Data protection: ICO fines company for data breach | Woodfords calendar icon ico BankTrack – Instituto de Credito Oficial (ICO)Security? ICO investigated 173 UK law firms for data protection ico list dec 2017 Privacy Policy | Worldpay schedule ico file Wilmslow is home to our open plan head office, Wycliffe House, where most of our staff are based. Wilmslow is a thriving Cheshire town, renowned for its shopping centre, café and restaurant culture with major high street chains, independent boutiques and great places to eat just outside our office. Our office is within easy UTRUST Joins Blockchain Consortium Crypto Valley in Switzerland
Contact - Picolo Research — Independent research on blockchain companies investing in blockchain quest Welcome to 1st Stop Loans | Home Loans, Personal Loans, Car ICO review of Information Governance Training in NHS Wales ico bitcoin cash Stylish. Corporate. Uniforms. 4 real icon ICO hits Money Lender with £180K Privacy Fine - Infosecurity CREDEROOM - a digital era fintech company
How we use your information - Merton Council ico crypto information Career Craft ConsultantsKillicomaine Junior High School - Portadown token 3 club meeting schedule SEC halts virtual coin offering, issues investor warning - Reuters e icon png ICO ruling leaves badger cull farmers vulnerable to intimidation from Neblio: ICO Analysis — Steemit
ICO review of Information Governance Training in NHS Wales custom casino tokens Waves PlatformA year on from High Court case blacklisting battle continues where to get companion upgrade tokens ICO publishes updated Subject Access Code of Practice v status icon Senior Policy Officer ICO, Jobs in Belfast - NIjobs.comWhat the ICO guidance on GDPR says, and what we think about it
Department of Health v the ICO – Legal judgement (PDF) - ADRN
Neblio: ICO Analysis — SteemitImpeccable Culinary Objects (ICO) ICO004 Whipper, Cream What the ICO guidance on GDPR says, and what we think about it invest in blockchain startups fail Lessons from a $10 Million ICO (Po.et), CEO of Madhive, and CEO Department of Health v the ICO – Legal judgement (PDF) - ADRN
ICO ruling leaves badger cull farmers vulnerable to intimidation from Silk and linen organza dress, white - "ICO" Max Mara The Scottish Information Commissioner's Team best ico currently A year on from High Court case blacklisting battle continues Neufund
Antonio Cordero - ICO Hed of Funding and Treasury - ICOBLP advises on ICO of Atlant, real estate platform in blockchain Neblio: ICO Analysis — Steemit 3 iconic characters Home - Nagico Insurances: Nagico Insurances Isle of Man Government - Isle of Man Information Commissioner
FOND-ICO GLOBAL has mobilized nearly €2 - AXIS - Grupo ICOICO Fines Carphone Warehouse £400,000 for Data Breach | News ICO publishes updated Subject Access Code of Practice w icon app Privacy Policy | Worldpay Safe Contractor
iCobus: Telecommunications & Data Cabling Recruitment AgencyICO Fines Moneysuperarket £80,000 For Spamming Customers BankTrack – Instituto de Credito Oficial (ICO) token 60 swtor Privacy Policy | Worldpay Data Protection | Secretariat
Statistical lessons learned for designing cluster randomized pragmatic clinical trials from the NIH Health Care Systems Collaboratory Biostatistics and Design Core. | Shared Resources | Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
Cook, Andrea J; Delong, Elizabeth; Murray, David M; Vollmer, William M; Heagerty, Patrick J
Clinical trials (London, England) (2016)
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Pragmatic clinical trials embedded within health care systems provide an important opportunity to evaluate new interventions and treatments. Networks have recently been developed to support practical and efficient studies. Pragmatic trials will lead to improvements in how we deliver health care and promise to more rapidly translate research findings into practice.
METHODS: The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Health Care Systems Collaboratory was formed to conduct pragmatic clinical trials and to cultivate collaboration across research areas and disciplines to develop best practices for future studies. Through a two-stage grant process including a pilot phase (UH2) and a main trial phase (UH3), investigators across the Collaboratory had the opportunity to work together to improve all aspects of these trials before they were launched and to address new issues that arose during implementation. Seven Cores were created to address the various considerations, including Electronic Health Records; Phenotypes, Data Standards, and Data Quality; Biostatistics and Design Core; Patient-Reported Outcomes; Health Care Systems Interactions; Regulatory/Ethics; and Stakeholder Engagement. The goal of this article is to summarize the Biostatistics and Design Core's lessons learned during the initial pilot phase with seven pragmatic clinical trials conducted between 2012 and 2014.
RESULTS: Methodological issues arose from the five cluster-randomized trials, also called group-randomized trials, including consideration of crossover and stepped wedge designs. We outlined general themes and challenges and proposed solutions from the pilot phase including topics such as study design, unit of randomization, sample size, and statistical analysis. Our findings are applicable to other pragmatic clinical trials conducted within health care systems.
CONCLUSION: Pragmatic clinical trials using the UH2/UH3 funding mechanism provide an opportunity to ensure that all relevant design issues have been fully considered in order to reliably and efficiently evaluate new interventions and treatments. The integrity and generalizability of trial results can only be ensured if rigorous designs and appropriate analysis choices are an essential part of their research protocols.
NDC Code(s): 21695-990-30
• Treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following tamoxifen therapy. Patients with ER-negative disease and patients who did not respond to previous tamoxifen therapy rarely responded to anastrozole tablets ( 1.3) (1)
One 1 mg tablet taken once daily ( 2.1) (2)
1 mg tablets ( 3) (3)
• Patients with demonstrated hypersensitivity to anastrozole tablets or any excipient ( 4.2) (4)
• Increases in total cholesterol may occur. Consider cholesterol monitoring. ( 5.3, 6.1) (5)
In the advanced breast cancer studies, the most common (occurring with an incidence of >10%) side effects occurring in women taking anastrozole tablets included: hot flashes, nausea, asthenia, pain, headache, back pain, bone pain, increased cough, dyspnea, pharyngitis and peripheral edema. ( 6.1 (6)
• Estrogen-containing products: Combination use may diminish activity of anastrozole tablets ( 7.2). (7)
• Pediatric patients: Efficacy has not been demonstrated for pubertal boys of adolescent age with gynecomastia or girls with McCune-Albright Syndrome and progressive precocious puberty. ( 8.4) (8)
