Does Marijuana Cure Cancer? Myths And Facts | Cancer
HealthCancerDoes Marijuana Cure Cancer? Myths And Facts
HealthCancerNews & EventsHealth News
Does Marijuana Cure Cancer? Myths And Facts
By Pratibha Dubey
Image Credit:racgp
Marijuana, one of the most consumed plants across the world, and cancer, one of the most deadly diseases in the world, are often associated with each other, not as cause and disease but as cure and disease. You must have come across several "stoners", who claim that marijuana is the most appropriate cure for cancer.
Since marijuana has long been used in several herbal medicines, the medicinal significance of marijuana cannot be neglected. In this article, we shall be unraveling certain facts and myths about marijuana and its association with cancer to have a clearer perspective on the medicinal use of marijuana to treat cancer.
Marijuana is primarily the buds of the plant Cannabis Sativa. The derivatives of this plant are known by different names like Hashish, pot, grass, weed, ganja, etc. Before we skip to the medicinal significance of marijuana or weed, we must sincerely note that the federal government does not permit the sale, purchase, and prescription of marijuana. Although, the state laws slightly differ here and permit the use of marijuana for treating certain diseases.
There are two chemicals present in the marijuana plant-primarily, that have had a lot of research going around them lately. The chemicals delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (often referred to as THC), and cannabidiol (CBD) are present in marijuana and are believed to produce effects on the body like euphoria, etc.
The delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), works on the brain to produce a feeling of euphoria which is often referred to as "high". CBD (cannabidiol) often works to counteract the effects of (THC) and it reduces anxiety, inflammation, paranoia, etc. Due to their effects on the body, THC is used to treat nausea and pain, while CBD is used to treat seizures.
See also Mental Health: A Useful Guide to Improve or Maintain Your Emotional Health
There are countless strains of weed, grown across the world. Each variety is different from the other, depending upon its content of THC and CBD and therefore, different strains are used for different purposes.
Effects of marijuana on the body:
Marijuana can be consumed via two routes. One can either roll it into a "joint" and smoke it or vape it. Another way to consume marijuana is by adding it into your cookies and beverages and consuming it via the alimentary route. When marijuana is smoked, it quickly mixes up with the bloodstream of the body and reaches the brain to produce its effect.
When marijuana is consumed by eating it and administering it into the alimentary canal, it takes a long time, at least 30 minutes to get absorbed. Once it is absorbed, it reaches the liver, where it is converted to a second psychoactive compound. This psychoactive compound acts on the brain and affects one's moods.
Smoked marijuana acts quickly but it has its effects on the brain for a short period of time. While edible marijuana act late, its effect on the brain and the body is prolonged. Consuming edible marijuana in excess can have effects similar to a drug overdose which can be fatal for the consumer.
The treatment of cancer through marijuana is quite a controversial subject. There have been studies, both to support the proposition and to reject it.
See also Ivermectin: Why You Should Not Consume It
Marijuana contains a chemical "cannabinoid" that when studied along with its derivatives, gave surprising results. When extracts of marijuana were added to a cancerous tumor, they seemed to stop the growth of the cancer cells and there was a significant decrease in their number, which shows that marijuana even killed some of the cells. While the results were quite obvious, one can only say that marijuana has an effect on the cancer cells and not that marijuana cures cancer.
When the smoke of marijuana was studied, it was discovered that it not only delivers THC and cannabinoids to one's body, but its smoke also contains particles that resemble those found in tobacco smoke. Smoking tobacco is one of the primary causes of cancer and therefore there are chances that smoking marijuana during cancer might backfire big time.
Also, marijuana has several negative impacts on the body. It causes disorientation of the brain and a person loses their potential to carry out several tasks with efficiency. However, it is not permanent but for whatever time marijuana affects the body. Also, while a person experiences a "high" after smoking marijuana, they may even have some unpleasant thoughts that might ruin their experience and disturb their peace of mind.
Clinical uses of marijuana:
Iamge Credit: fredhutch
Several studies have proven that marijuana helps in the treatment of nausea. Now, nausea might not be a disease but is a side effect of cancer chemotherapy. Therefore, one can say that marijuana is used to lower the side effects of cancer chemotherapy.
Smoked-up marijuana affects the brain too quickly and can therefore be used to relieve neuropathic pain, which is caused due to damaged nerves. Smoked marijuana also affects HIV patients positively. It improves their food consumption. Extracts of marijuana find major applications in pain-relieving.
See also Significance of Electronic Health Record
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved and legalized a capsule named Dronabinol. It is a gelatin capsule that contains delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. The capsule is prescribed to a patient who has undergone cancer chemotherapy, to combat the side effects like nausea and vomiting. This capsule is also prescribed to patients with AIDS, to improve their appetite and gain weight.
When most other drugs fail to combat nausea after chemotherapy, doctors prescribe a drug named Nabilone, which is similar to THC in its function but is synthetic. This drug is consumed via the mouth.
Drug researchers in the US are working on a drug named Nabiximols that is a kind of mouth spray that contains THC and cannabidiol (CBD). The drug is being tested to treat the side effects of multiple sclerosis (MS), like muscle spasms and pain.
Marijuana when added to the culture of a cancerous tumor, did reduce the growth of the cells and also killed some of them. But it cannot be said that marijuana cures cancer. On the contrary, marijuana contains some particles in its smoke that resemble tobacco particles and are harmful to the human body.
However, marijuana extracts are used to relieve patients of nausea and vomiting, which are the side effects of cancer chemotherapy. These also improve the appetite of AIDS patients. US drug researchers are testing a drug named Nabiximols, which might be used to treat the side effects of multiple sclerosis.
Oct 03, 2020 · As a reminder, for accurate information about COVID-19, you need to check CDC website!. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain (e.g., grocery stores and pharmacies) especially in areas of significant community-based transmission. 31 Best N95 Mask Alternatives (Updated!) HeavySep 22, 2020 · COVAFLU KN95 Disposable Fold Flat Face Mask (10 Pack) protection that meets ASTM E2952-14 standards and is certified by the National Institutes for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH
KN95 2020 health care disposable niosh kn95N95 2020 health care disposable niosh kn95FFP2 Mask FAQs; Disposable Masks FAQs; Home » N95 Masks » 3M 8511 N95 Protective Disposable Face Mask Cover NIOSH Respirator 10 PACK NEW 3M. 0. 3M 8511 N95 Protective Disposable Face Mask Cover NIOSH Respirator 10 PACK NEW 3M. October 13, 2020 0 2020 health care disposable niosh kn95 49.90. Buy This Item ebay. Features. Country 2020 health care disposable niosh kn95Region of Manufacture:United States; Coronavirus masks:What's the difference between N95 and KN95?Apr 18, 2020 · Health care workers are prepared to protect themselves with Chinese-manufactured KN95 masks if faced with continued N95 respirator shortages, leading to the question:What is the difference between CovCare - Buy Facemasks Online Prevent CoronavirusKN95 Face Masks CE Certified. A KN95 face mask is a respiratory protective device designed to achieve a perfect facial fit, with extremely efficient filtration of airborne particles. KN95 masks are the best-value masks with nearly identical specs as the NIOSH n95
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has removed its Emergency Use Authorization for several KN95 masks, which are made in China, after they failed to meet a minimum particulate filtration efficiency of 95% in National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health testing. During a public health emergency, the FDA can authorize the use of medical products that have not gone through the regular Firefighters, paramedics concerned over using KN95 masks May 04, 2020 · The U.S. Food and Drug Administration set a standard of 95 percent filtration for N95 masks, which are regulated by the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, or NIOSH KN95 Mask vs N95 Mask Current FDA Guidelines May 07, 2020 · In April of 2020, in order to help expand the availability of general use face masks for the general public and particulate filtering facepiece respirators for healthcare professionals during the COVID-19 pandemic, the FDA issued guidance authorizing the use of KN95 masks as suitable NIOSH alternatives under certain emergency circumstances
Jun 30, 2020 · These masks have become generally available to larger masses in April 2020, to help the Chinese people, as well as other countries, fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The KN95 filtering facepiece respirators are also used by healthcare professionals, since the masks were approved by the FDA, according to the FDA guidelines and international standards. NIOSH CDC Surgical Medical N95 Face Mask Respirator, 20 PCS KN95 Disposable Face Mask Mouth Cover Protective Respirator K N95 KN95 October 13, 2020 3M N95 1860s Health Care Particulate Respirator Surgical Mask BOX of 20 MASKS 3M October 13, 2020 3M 8511 N95 Protective Disposable Face Mask Cover NIOSH Respirator 10 PACK NEW 3M October 13, 2020 NIOSH Conformity Assessment Letter to ManufacturersOn May 7, 2020 the FDA updated a separate EUA that IS SPECIFIC to KN95 masks, NOT NIOSH-approved N95 FFRs. This EUA is further identified by the memorandum salutation, To:Manufacturers of Imported, Non-NIOSH-Approved Disposable Filtering Facepiece Respirators; first issued on April 3, 2020, Imported China.
Apr 03, 2020 · The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) also issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) letter permitting National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved, disposable filtering facepiece respirators, including those that were NIOSH-approved but have since passed the manufacturers recommended shelf life, to be used in Personal Protective Equipment EUAs FDAOn March 24, 2020, the FDA issued an umbrella EUA for certain imported disposable filtering facepiece respirators (FFRs) that are not approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Proper N95 Respirator Use for Respiratory Protection Mar 16, 2020 · Jaclyn Krah Cichowicz, MA, is a Health Communications Specialist in the in the NIOSH National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory. Other Resources . Proper Use, Filtration, and Fit The Three-Legged Stool of Respiratory Protection (Blog) Required Labeling of a NIOSH-Approved N95 Filtering Facepiece Respirator Infographic
Apr 01, 2020 · NIOSH encourages facilities to take the necessary steps to ensure fit testing is conducted in compliance with OSHA protocols. 2020 health care disposable niosh kn95 Note:OSHA issued Temporary Enforcement Guidance Healthcare Respiratory Protection Annual Fit Testing for N95 Filtering Facepieces During the COVID-19 Outbreak on March 14, 2020. This temporary enforcement NIOSH CDC Surgical Medical N95 Face Mask Respirator, 20 PCS KN95 Disposable Face Mask Mouth Cover Protective Respirator K N95 KN95 October 13, 2020 3M N95 1860s Health Care Particulate Respirator Surgical Mask BOX of 20 MASKS 3M October 13, 2020 3M 8511 N95 Protective Disposable Face Mask Cover NIOSH Respirator 10 PACK NEW 3M October 13, 2020
Protein Supplement (Prosource, Procel) - alternative treatment
Protein Supplement	/
4,215,579 posts
Other Names: Prosource Procel Liquacel Amino Acids (Brand) Resource Beneprotein
Protein Supplement Related Topics	Topics most frequently discussed with Protein Supplement	- -
Protein Supplement and Fiber
Protein Supplement and Hunger
Protein Supplement and Peanut
Protein Supplement and Yogurt
What patients are saying about Protein Supplement
4,215,579 patient discussions from healthcare websites and blogs
Positive (71,393)
Negative (13,996)
Protein Supplement Exhausted Tired Ketosis I'm working on making sure I get my protein and...
...only eating 400 calories. I'm working on making sure I get my protein and fluids. I can already ...now that I'm getting higher protein my ketosis is back...... (from www.thinnertimesforum.com) Read full post
Protein Supplement Hunger Alcohols prefer protein bars for my hunger, as these bars have...
...of my apartment so i mostly prefer protein bars for my hunger, as these bars have ...can excessive intake of protein bars give ... (from www.3fatchicks.com) Read full post
Protein Supplement Hunger and I am eating my protein and drinking my protein shakes...
Splurging. I can't control my hunger and I am eating my protein and drinking my protein shakes... (from www.lapbandtalk.com) Read full post
Protein Supplement Elevated Blood Pressure Blood Pressure Bed Rest Urine Test my bp went up and I started having protein in...
...put on bed rest immediately when my bp went up and I started having protein in my urine. Hopefully your... (from community.thebump.com) Read full post
Protein Supplement Acne similar because i like the idea of drinking my protein
...had to let go of dairy and sugar to control my acne. always something but im going to check out ...the idea of drinking my protein... (from forum.blackhairmedia.com) Read full post
Periactin Protein Supplement Weight Gain Pills Allergies Sinus Infections Cancer Stomach Ulcers Depo.. Fatty foods, protein food & yet still i...
...Depo.. Fatty foods, protein food & yet ...ulcer & i can't take periactin (NB i used periactin for my sinusitis allergy & had to stop when i was diagnosed with stomach ulcer ). Is... (from www.cancer-forums.net) Read full post
Protein Supplement Burning Protein measurement Catabolic State Glucose not so low that my body starts using protein as a glucose...
...to digest energy, very little protein whilst my body is burning ...in a catabolic state. More protein on rest days for recovery ...not so low that my body starts using protein as a glucose... (from community.myprotein.com) Read full post
Protein Supplement Whey Protein Dry Skin Eczema Egg I heard that egg protein powder is good. All feedback...
...people, I've been using whey protein and realized that it has attributed to my eczema. I have seen ...i started using whey protein. My eczema hasn't been this ...heard that egg protein powder... (from forum.bodybuilding.com) Read full post
Protein Supplement Biotin Surgery Hair Loss Vitamins your vitamins? eating enough protein? and I take an extra...
...taking your vitamins? eating enough protein? and I take an extra ...system.. causing alot of things to go haywire.. I knew about the hair loss and started on biotin daily.. so far so good.. im 2... (from www.verticalsleevetalk.com) Read full post
Lodine Protein Supplement Weight Loss Arthritis Gastric Bypass and protein fixed primaly. I feel better but just wish...
...and only lost 5#. I take Lodine for arthritis, hope this isn't impairing ...Just low carb veggies and protein fixed primaly. I feel better but just wish the... (from www.marksdailyapple.com) Read full post
Global Welded Bellows Market Pegged For Robust Global Expansion By 2026 - My Management News
Global Welded Bellows Market Pegged For Robust Global Expansion By 2026
February 11, 2020 Presley MichelleLeave a Comment on Global Welded Bellows Market Pegged For Robust Global Expansion By 2026
The Global Welded Bellows Market research report 2020 provides detailed information about the industry based on the revenue (USD MN) and Volume (Units) for the forecast period 2020-2026. The Research Report provides the updated business information and industry future trends, that allow you to spot the products and end users driving Revenue growth and profit. Furthermore, the Welded Bellows market report quantifies the market share held by the significant players of the industry and gives an in-depth view of the competitive landscape.
Welded Bellows Market Report will offer a complete and useful guide for new market aspirants. This market is classified into different segments with a comprehensive analysis of each with respect to geography for the research period 2013-2018.
Fill Out Details To Receive FREE Sample Report PDF @ https://market.biz/report/global-welded-bellows-market-qy/438882/#requestforsample
Report Name : Global Welded Bellows Market Report 2020.
Leading Vendors in Competition: Metal Flex, BellowsTech (Servometer), Standard Bellows Company, Dynatect Manufacturing.
Worldwide Welded Bellows Market Split By Type:
Global Welded Bellows Market Split By Application:
A mixture of primary and secondary research has been used to define Welded Bellows market estimates and forecasts. Sources used for secondary research contain (but not limited to) Paid Data Sources, Technology Journals of 2014-2019, SEC Filings Company Websites, Annual Reports, and various other Welded Bellows industry publications. Specific details on the methodology used for Welded Bellows market report can be provided on demand.
Enquire Here For Discount Or Report Customization: https://market.biz/report/global-welded-bellows-market-qy/438882/#inquiry
In addition, It highlights the ability to increase possibilities in the coming years by 2024, also reviewing the marketplace drivers, constraints and restraints, growth signs, challenges, market dynamics. "Welded Bellows Market" gives a region-wise analysis like growth aspects, and revenue, Past, present and future forecast trends, Analysis of emerging market sectors and development opportunities in Welded Bellows will forecast the market growth.
Regional scope: Welded Bellows market is divided into various regions like North America, Middle-East a and Africa, Asia-Pacific, South America, and Europe.
Country scope: Welded Bellows market is divided into United States, Mexico, Canada, Germany, Singapore, U.K., Italy, Russia, France, Spain, China, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Brazil, Colombia, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Egypt, and UAE, ASEAN countries.
>>Competition Benchmarking: Benchmarking of Welded Bellows industry leading players on the basis of product portfolio, manufacturing plants, market pricing, sales footprint, target customer types, etc.
>>Company Profiles: Detailed analysis of the major companies present in the Welded Bellows market.
>>Product Benchmarking: Benchmarking of the most selling variant of all leading Welded Bellows companies on the basis of major technical parameters. Detailed analysis of benchmarking and recommendation on ideal product specifications.
Global Single Mode Optical Fiber Market Development And Trends Forecasts Report 2019 2024
Global Brinell Hardness Testers Market 2020 Demand, Growth, Technology Trends, Key Findings, and Forecasts by 2026
Global Positive Photoresist Market to Grow Significantly by Leading Players 2020 – 2026 | HEICO (Dukane Seacom), ACR ElectronicsInc, Garmin
Neutropenic Fever & P. aeruginosa Bloodstream Infection | Case Study | T2 Biosystems
Neutropenic Fever & P. aeruginosa Bloodstream Infection
A 23-year-old female with a history of acute myeloid leukemia and recent haploidentical stem cell transplant, cytokine release syndrome and severe mucositis following receipt of post-transplant cyclophosphamide therapy.
Upon admission, the patient was initially given cefepime for the treatment of febrile neutropenia. Due to the patient's history of AML and neutropenia, she was at risk for organisms such as P. aeruginosa in addition to other common causes of febrile neutropenia such as Enterobacteriaceae.
At the time of admission, she had blood cultures obtained and T2Bacteria ordered. At this hospital, patient selection for T2Bacteria testing included onco-hematologic and HSCT patients with suspected bloodstream infections.
Bloodstream infections are a major cause of life-threatening complications in patients with cancer, due to the potential delays in chemotherapy, longer hospital stay, suboptimal treatment, higher mortality rate, and increased healthcare costs. The poor performance of blood cultures has a major impact on the clinical management of febrile neutropenic patients, especially in cases of unexplained persistent fever. T2Bacteria direct from blood diagnostic technology provided clinically relevant information for the diagnosis of infection in this case of blood culture-negative febrile neutropenia. Cefepime was continued for a total of 7 days, which was 2 days longer than would have been prescribed based on the negative blood cultures after the patient defervesced and ANC increased to >500.
A 23-year-old female with a history of acute myeloid leukemia and recent haploidentical stem cell transplant, cytokine release syndrome, and severe mucositis following receipt of post-transplant cyclophosphamide therapy. The patient developed fever and blood cultures, T2Bacteria, and empiric antibiotics were ordered.
Febrile neutropenia in a patient with AML
Positive for P. aeruginosa and negative E. faecium, S. aureus, E. coli and K. pneumoniae.
A rapid T2Bacteria result allowed for early diagnosis of P. aeruginosa bacteremia and confirmation of effective empiric antibiotic therapy. Identification of P. aeruginosa by T2 also provided important diagnostic information that allowed for more informed treatment decisions, including the continuation of IV antibiotics for longer treatment duration.
"Mutation of POLG is associated with progressive external ophthalmoplegia characterized by mtDNA deletions."
"Sequence analysis of familial PEO shows additional mutations associated with the 752C-->T and 3527C-->T changes in the POLG1 gene."
"Functional defects due to spacer-region mutations of human mitochondrial DNA polymerase in a family with an ataxia-myopathy syndrome."
"Association of novel POLG mutations and multiple mitochondrial DNA deletions with variable clinical phenotypes in a Spanish population."
"Molecular analysis of ANT1, TWINKLE and POLG in patients with multiple deletions or depletion of mitochondrial DNA by a dHPLC-based assay."
Disease descriptionA severe form of progressive external ophthalmoplegia, a disorder characterized by progressive weakness of ocular muscles and levator muscle of the upper eyelid. It is clinically more heterogeneous than the autosomal dominant forms.
Natural variantiVAR_012155 467 A → T in PEOB1, SANDO, SCAE and MTDPS4A; results in clearly decreased activity, DNA binding and processivity of the polymerase. 13 Publications
Disease descriptionA systemic disorder resulting from mitochondrial dysfunction associated with mitochondrial depletion in skeletal muscle and peripheral nerve tissue. The clinical triad of symptoms consists of sensory ataxic neuropathy, dysarthria, and ophthalmoparesis. However, the phenotype varies widely, even within the same family, and can also include myopathy, seizures, and hearing loss.
Natural variantiVAR_058883 627 R → Q in SANDO; shows DNA binding affinity and processivities similar to the controls. 1 Publication
Disease descriptionAn autosomal recessive hepatocerebral syndrome due to mitochondrial dysfunction. The typical course of the disease includes severe developmental delay, intractable seizures, liver failure, and death in childhood. Refractory seizures, cortical blindness, progressive liver dysfunction, and acute liver failure after exposure to valproic acid are considered diagnostic features. The neuropathological hallmarks are neuronal loss, spongiform degeneration, and astrocytosis of the visual cortex. Liver biopsy results show steatosis, often progressing to cirrhosis.
Disease descriptionAn autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by headaches and/or seizures manifesting in childhood or adolescence, cerebellar and sensory ataxia, dysarthria, and myoclonus manifesting in early adulthood. Neuropathological findings include spinocerebellar degeneration associated with cortical neuronal degeneration in advanced cases.
Unity Worldwide Ministries (UWM) holds its members–both ministers and ministries–to high ethical standards which are outlined in our Codes of Ethics. When an ethical concern arises, it is addressed through our Ethics Review System (ERS) which is committed to a compassionate peer review process that explores what occurred, if there was a breach of ethics, and the path forward to address ethical breaches when they occur.
The Ethics Review System is a compassionate and supportive peer review process that explores allegations of ethical violations, including sexual misconduct.
It is comprised of a team of highly skilled and trained Credentialed Leaders. Because it is a peer review process, Ministers review other Ministers. Licensed Unity Teachers (LUTs) review other Licensed Teachers.
Members of the UWM staff do not serve on review teams. The Director of Member Services is the staff representative to this team, and serves in an advisory capacity.
This system only addresses ethical concerns. Concerns about competency are directed to the Director of Member Services.
Council of Chairs: The Council of Chairs is made up of 3 tenured ERS team members who train and mentor team members, ensure policy is followed, and provide oversight to the system. One member of the council serves as the Chair of Chairs.
Judicatory Representative (JR): The ERS team member who serves as case manager during a review, coordinating activities of team and ensuring process runs smoothly.
Discernment Panel: A team of tenured ERS team members who are utilized when a resolution cannot be found by a review team.
If it is an ethical issue, JR Chair obtains a signed release of information form from the individual expressing the concern.
When signed release is received, the JR Chair sends a letter of notification to the reviewee indicating:
The initiation of a review does not indicate determination has been made. ERS is simply exploring the allegation.
The situation is assessed by an ERS team consisting of the Advocate, Case Manager and additional team members as required.
Ethics violation has occurred and a Mutually Agreed-Upon Plan of Action (MPoA) is created to address the situation.
For more information or to find out about joining the ERS Team, please contact Rev Cynthia Vermillion-Foster, Director of Member Services: CFoster@unity.org.
Codes of Ethics Codes of Ethics for Ministers, Licensed Unity Teachers, Ministries and Certified Spiritual Educators
Agreement between licensed Unity teachers and ministers Download an rtf document that you can customize.
New Clinical Trial Results: Safety and Efficacy of Tofacitinib in PsA - Rheumatology Advisor
Xeljanz® met its primary efficacy endpoints, demonstrating an improvement compared to placebo in ACR20 responses at 3 months
Pfizer anounced results from a phase 3 study of tofacitnib (Xeljanz®, tofacitinib citrate) for the treatment of adults with active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) who failed treatment with previously administered tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor.
Tofacitinib In Psoriatic Arthritis Subjects With Inadequate Response to TNF Inhibitors ("OPAL Beyond"), a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 6-month trial (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT01882439) is part of the OPAL global clinical development program consisting of two Phase 3 studies and one long-term extension trial.
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of tofacitinib 5mg and 10mg twice daily as compared to placebo in 395 adult patients with active PsA who had inadequate or intolerable response to ≥1 TNF inhibitor. The primary efficacy endpoint was improvement in symptoms as measured by American College of Rheumatology 20 response and Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index scores at 3 months.
Results from OPAL Beyond showed that treatment with tofacitinib 5mg and 10mg twice daily demonstrated a statistically significant improvement vs placebo based on ACR20 and HAQ-DI scores at 3 months, meeting the study's primary endpoint. Overall adverse events rates were consistent with those observed in broader tofacitinib rheumatology studies.
Tofacitinib is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. It is currently available as Xeljanz® and Xeljanz XR® for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate, as monotherapy or in combination with MTX or other nonbiologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs.
"There is a significant need for additional PsA treatment options as many people living with the condition do not respond well to available therapies," said Michael Corbo of Pfizer.
Pfizer Announces Positive Top-Line Results From Second Phase 3 Trial Of Oral XELJANZ® (Tofacitinib Citrate) In Adults With Psoriatic Arthritis [news release]. Pfizer press release office. Published online June 7, 2016. Source Code.
60+ FREE Health Services Templates Checklists Online | Lumiform Templates
Lumiform / Templates / Health Services Templates
Checklist templates are successfully applied to all areas of the healthcare system. They are the guide for the daily challenges that doctors, nurses, admins, and other staff members face on a weekly, monthly, and annual basis. But they are also used for conducting internal and external audits to ensure that the patient's care meets the standard of the healthcare institution, for example, checking clinical records, evaluating nurses, and improving patient care. In addition to auditing, you can also use these forms to implement a standardized complaint management system.
Whatever it is you're trying to achieve, professional and digital templates can make documenting daily work processes and tasks more efficient and comprehensive than ever before. Take a peek at Lumiform's extensive library of over 50 health services templates today!
Care Staff Supervision Templat...
Use our supervision template for care staff to plan shifts and organize your employees.
Clinical Audit Checklist Templ...
Trace with this contact tracing form template any possible contact a person may have had with anyone who could be a carrier.
CQC Assessment Checklist - Med...
Use this CQC assessment to efficiently inspect clinic rooms, medicine waste bins, and controlled drugs. General questions concerning stock receipts, gas cylinders, and trained staff are also included.
CQC Inspection Checklist Templ...
Use this CQC inspection checklist template to test care facilities in terms of their effectiveness and quality of service. This will continuously improve the care provided.
Elderly Fall Prevention Checkl...
Elderly Home Safety Checklist...
Employee Temperature Log Sheet...
General Infection Control Audi...
How to Create Your Own Healthcare Checklist Template?
Healthcare templates are particularly effective at creating work plans that comply with state and federal regulations. They help hospital staff compile a to-do list and determine how to implement new policies and procedures.
The following five tips will help you create checklist templates for a wide variety of healthcare audits:
1. Keep an Overview of the Tasks
A structured, clear, and careful working method is essential in the healthcare system. Make sure that all information is available and included in the check. Once this is established, the data can be collected and evaluated to make them more efficient and secure.
2. Leave Room for Individual Comments
The healthcare sector is an extensive industry with a wide range of tests, audits, and cleaning specifications. For this reason, it becomes exceedingly important to include the option of comments, notes, or recommendations on the respective form.
3. Test the Checklist Template Before Using
You should conduct at least one trial run of the healthcare checklist template to identify grammatical errors or information gaps that will need fixing before it's rolled out for large-scale use. In the end, you should have the optimal template for recurring quality checks in the healthcare sector.
For your hospital to be considered a first-rate facility, your staff will need extensive training and educational opportunities. This includes the correct and accurate use of healthcare checklist templates. If the staff knows how to fill out these documents correctly, daily audits and inspections will be a sinch.
FAQs: Frequently Asked Questions Regarding Templates in the Healthcare Sector
In Which Areas of the Healthcare System Can Templates Be Used?
Checklist templates can aid in all sectors of the healthcare system by streamlining patient admissions, routine examinations, and nursing tasks. But that's only the tip of the iceberg. For example, templates have their uses in ambulance inspections, elderly fall prevention, temperature log sheets, home visits, etc. Every interaction with patients and their care can effectively be supervised with the aid of a quality health services template.
What Are the Benefits of Digital Originals for a Healthcare Facility?
Digitizing checklist templates in the healthcare sector offers numerous advantages, such as helping hospitals and clinics promote quality care for their patients. What's more, those who opt to use the desktop software and apps don't have to spend as much time doing administrative tasks. Lumiform takes care of all of that by automatically creating digital reports that you can analyze and review.
Will the Documentation Obligation Be Met by a Digital Checklist in the Healthcare System?
Because the healthcare system deals with sensitive patient information - not to mention life and death situations - doctors and other healthcare providers need to keep thorough records so they can provide their patients with the best course of treatment. Lost or illegible paperwork can have catastrophic consequences on patient health. What if they are given the wrong medication or dosage because a doctor was unable to read his own handwriting? Using a digital filing system adverts crisis by immediately archiving documents in the cloud, which healthcare providers or inspectors can immediately retrieve at the click of a button.
Run by caring individuals who have directly experienced the impact of tickborne diseases, our organization understands the essential role wellness activities and educational resources play in recovery. We connect people to the fellow patients and professionals who can help make what is often a lonely and complicated experience less daunting.
Thousands of patients have turned to us for information and support since the group was created in 2003 as the Town of Ridgefield's Lyme Disease Task Force. We welcome your questions, donations and participation. Come join us.
Our mission is to make the community a healthier place by preventing tick-borne diseases and supporting patients and their families throughout their illness.
Lyme Connection began as the Ridgefield Lyme Disease Task Force (RLDTF) in 2003. This committee was established by First Selectman Rudy Marconi in response to the growing incidence of Lyme disease in Fairfield County. In 2008, in partnership with the Ridgefield Health Department, the BLAST Lyme Disease Prevention Program launched with a $50,000 start-up grant from the Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH). In 2013, RLDTF introduced the name Lyme Connection to reflect its pivotal role in connecting patients to each other and to essential support services.
Lyme Connection offers a wide range of nationally-recognized programs based on the needs of the community it serves. Today, we must address the fact that Lyme disease has risen to epidemic proportion, with over 400,000 new cases diagnosed annually according to the CDC. New, very serious tickborne diseases are complicating what was already a highly controversial diagnostic dilemma. Despite the statistics, little private, state or federal funding is directed toward community-based efforts to support patients or educate the public about prevention. We are proud of our accomplishments, but recognize that the fight to eradicate the pain and suffering caused by tick-borne diseases is far from over.
2021 Received 3-year, $25,500 Elizabeth White Grant from the Community Foundation for Greater New Haven to assist Connecticut tick-borne disease patients with medical bills.
2021 Publication by Dr. Steven Phillips, founding member and Dana Parish: Chronic: The Hidden Cause of the Autoimmune Pandemic and How to Get Healthy Again
2017 Debuted first billboard campaign to encourage year round tick-borne disease prevention awareness
DNP Enterprise - Disposable Lab Coat Manufacturer and Supplier from Ahmedabad
Mobile : +91-9099757834, +91-9173574157
Healthcare and hospital industry needs more companies to supply them with equipment and accessories. With the motive to be a part of a noble cause and to ensure a constant supply, DNP ENTERPRISE was founded in the year 2013. We are known to supply products such as hospital furniture, iodine solutions, anaesthesia products, health care and disposable products, surgical disposable products, pharmaceutical tablets, medical packaging products, surgical equipment, dressing disposables, air beds, ultrasonic gel and weight bag. With so many products, we have covered most of the health care needs. Our goal is to completely cover the healthcare sector so that we can constantly supply products to health care units that need them. We try to serve as many parts of the country as possible making us a n Read more...
Manufacture, Exporter, Trader
24AQRPP5014A1Z4
Rs. 1.5 Crore Approx.
Plastic Drape Sheet
Three Function Electric ICU Bed
With the support of our clients, we are growing our business and expanding our reach. With our online presence, we have made it possible for people to connect with us easily and place an order without any hassle from the comfort of their location. This helps us to get more business and serve more places and clients and also clients to get products without much effort.
Our goal is to completely cover the healthcare sector so that we can constantly supply products to health care units that need them. We try to serve as many parts of the country as possible making us a name in the industry. We also serve a huge client base since the beginning of our journey.
No, 20, Sundaram Arcade, Opp. Shukan Mall, Sola-Science City Road, Sola, Ahmedabad, Gujarat - 380060, India
+91-9099757834, +91-9173574157
dnpsurgical@gmail.com
Disposable & Health Care Products | Hospital Furniture | Surgical Disposable Products | Surgical Equipment | Pharmaceutical Tablets | Dressing Disposables | Anesthesia Products | Medical Packaging Products | Air Bed | Ultrasound Gel | Weight Bag | Povidone Iodine Solution
