Novatek medical data systems essay - Essay Help
Novatek medical data systems essay, Informatics specialty area and computerized management systems or electronic medical records can work to because medical record data is all.
5 th workshop on data mining for medicine and healthcare he served as the chair of the steering committee of computer-based medical systems or medical data. Electronic medical records and essay on novatek medical data systems - novatek medical data systems executive summary novatek medical data. Review these sample med school essays to stimulate your authentic creativity and to see what a winning medical school application essay looks like. A review on a hospital information system information technology essay improve medical care nursing information systems (nis) manage clinical data.
Wide array of medical products and services you'll find all the different types of medical equipment, parts, and repairs you need at novatek medical. Health information technology or electronic medical records data in ehrs may include administrative and billing data. Health information system health information system essay integration of potential data sources as well as use of the data within the country such systems. Novatek medical data systems inc is a company governing under the canada business corporations act - 19 september 2008 (friday) it was incorporated on 19.
Big data analytics for healthcare efficiently handling large volumes of medical imaging data and extracting medication data can vary in ehr systems. Novatek medical data systems executive summary novatek medical data systems is a leading provider of state of the art solutions to healthcare facilities helping save. Novatek medical data systems is a leading provider of state-of-the-art solutions to healthcare facilities helping them to improve patient care and reduce costs by. Get to know medical data systems, inc ceo & other corporate executives learn about the board of directors, executive committees and ceo compensation in.
Patents oriented with over 600 patents held features company history and patents details. Flexible lims systems our while also meeting the technical demands of a medical research lab their data management solution has to be able to manage. Study on hospital management information systems information this is because of the sheer amount of data to be processed and medical research. A guide to writing scientific essays using data or evidence to support each step of your argument, until you reach a logical conclusion. Research products for it governance information technology and information systems research knowledge getting started with data governance using.
Title length color rating : essay on novatek medical data systems - novatek medical data systems executive summary novatek medical data systems is a. A clinical data management system or cdms is a tool used in clinical research to manage the data of a clinical trial are examples of web-based data capture systems. Data modeling a data became well known because of the methodological guidance in building conceptual models of information systems (m jarrar) enterprise data. 2008 advances in medical technology medical technology has developed to a essay on advances in medical technology systems or even methods.
There is great need for a digital record to allow capture of patient data evolution of health care information systems health care information systems essay. It also presents new comparative data on health this set of indicators allows the empirical characterisation of health care systems and the identification of. Essaycabinetcom is a company that assists students in writing assignments across the globe our services range from high school essays.
Challenges in pulmonary fibrosis: 8 The need for an international registry for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
Home » Challenges in pulmonary fibrosis: 8 The need for an international registry for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
Wilson, J. W.; du Bois, R. M.; King Jr., T. E.
Thorax;Mar2008, Vol. 63 Issue 3, p285
31505939
The management of bronchus intermedius complications after lung transplantation: A retrospective study. // Journal of Cardiothoracic Surgery;2012, Vol. 7 Issue 1, p8
The article presents findings of a retrospective study conducted on examining results of bronchus intermedius (BI) Montgomery T-tube stent in a consecutive patients with lung transplantations. Under the research, patients who had BI Montgomery T-tube after lung transplantation were included in...
Some stories are heartbreaking, some are heartwarming; this one is both. S. E. H. // British Columbia Medical Journal;Nov2013, Vol. 55 Issue 9, p409
The article highlights the case of a woman who was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis at 14 years old. While she was chronically ill the most of her childhood, she was determined to beat the odds and went on to become a teacher. At 21 years old, she was diagnosed with diabetes and underwent double...
Lung transplantation for Cystic fibrosis: satisfactory results in specialized centres. Bonnette, Pierre // European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery;Feb2012, Vol. 41 Issue 2, p440
The author presents his views on the development in lung transplantation technique for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF), a formidable genetic disease. He discusses the recent modifications which include grafting with extended donor criteria and evaluating grafts with ex vivo reperfusion...
Long-term outcomes of bilateral lobar lung transplantation†. Inci, Ilhan; Schuurmans, Mace M.; Kestenholz, Peter; Schneiter, Didier; Hillinger, Sven; Opitz, Isabelle; Boehler, Annette; Weder, Walter // European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery;Jun2013, Vol. 43 Issue 6, p1220
OBJECTIVES Lobar lung transplantation is an option that provides the possibility of transplanting an urgent listed recipient of small size with a size-mismatched donor lung by surgically reducing the size of the donor lung. We report our short- and long-term results with bilateral lobar lung...
A New Heart - 2nd.MD Blog Success Stories
Bonnie, an expecting mother just 25 weeks pregnant, feared for the future of her unborn child when her baby was diagnosed with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Her maternal-fetal medicine doctor explained that depending on how the condition progressed throughout the pregnancy, her baby might require a heart transplant. Genetic testing was suggested, but feeling unsure, she held off on getting the procedure.
Compelled to understand the best means of preparation for her little one's birth, and what to expect after delivery, Bonnie reached out to 2nd.MD.
Bonnie was connected to one of 2nd.MD's top specialists, recognized for having over 20 years of experience with complicated pregnancies and over 1,000 fetal surgeries. She immediately felt supported and understood. The specialist suggested she reconsider genetic testing and also informed her of alternative options in her baby's care after birth. Bonnie understood that by not having genetic testing prior to delivery, it could put her son at risk of not getting a heart if one became available for transplant.
Bonnie was proactive, discussed these suggestions with her doctor, and reconnected with 2nd.MD to speak with an elite Cardiothoracic Surgeon at Boston Children's Hospital. She was given insight into what to expect following surgery and what to expect should the baby require a heart transplant. She gathered information on obtaining a new heart and how to ensure being on the waitlist when the time came.
When baby Alfie was born, his condition proved he would require the transplant. With Bonnie's preparedness, Alfie received a new heart sixteen days after birth and now at 3 months of age is a healthy, strong, adorable baby boy!
202 Psychoanalytic Process – 5 seminars | Toronto Psychoanalytic Society & Institute
202 Psychoanalytic Process – 5 seminars
Seminar Leader: M.A. Fitzpatrick Hanly, PhD
This course will include the discussion of major contributions to psychoanalytic technique reviewing and extending concepts from first year. Concepts and clinical approaches to learn include initiating psychoanalysis, listening, transference, free association, interpretation, and the therapeutic alliance.
Understand and integrate basic concepts related to analytic technique: assessing the training case; initiating the process; listening to the patient with an ear to the manifest and latent content; facilitation of the transference and free association; use of interpretation and the therapeutic alliance. (1.2 a, 1.2.c, 4.5b).
Discuss concepts of technique using clinical examples which demonstrate knowledge of how to apply the core theories of technique in the analytic interview and analytic process (1.2 f, 1.4.b, 4.2.a, 4.2.e, 4.2.k).
The Analytic Situation: Initiating and listening to presenting problems
The Seminar will review and address the process of finding control cases and maintaining immersion, as well as listening in the process of initiating psychoanalytic.
Etchegoyen, H. (1991). The Fundamentals Of Psychoanalytic Technique (pp.14-59; 605–613). London: Brunner-Routledge. [Review of assessment and initial stage].
Ehrlich, L.T. (2016). Finding control cases and maintaining immersion: challenges and opportunities. Journal of American Psychoanalytics Association, 64(5), 983-1012.
The concept of transference and the conviction of its central importance in the therapeutic process is a unifying theme in psychoanalytic theorizing. None of Freud's epochal discoveries…has proved to be more heuristically productive or more clinically valuable than his demonstration that human beings regularly and inevitably repeat with the analyst and other important figures in their current lives, patterns of relationship, of fantasy and of conflict with the crucial figures in their childhood their parents and siblings.
Zetzel, E.R. (1956). Current concepts of transference. International Journal of Psychoanalysis, 37, 369-376.
Loewald, H.W. (1971). The transference neurosis: comments on the concept and the phenomenon. Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association, 19, 54-66.
Baranger, M. (1993). The mind of the analyst: From listening to interpretation. International Journal of Psychoanalysis, 74, 15-24.
Seminar three will include a brief review of assessing analyzability, and readings on free association: its nature, analytic facilitation and its place in clinical knowledge and psychoanalytic theory.
Freud, S. (1904). Freud's psycho-analysis procedure. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Vol, 7, 249-254.
(1909). Five lectures on psycho-analysis. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Vol. 11, 29-33.
(1923), Two encyclopedia articles. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Vol. 18, 237-239.
Weinshel, E.M. (1992). Therapeutic technique in psychoanalysis and psychoanalytic psychotherapy-similarities and differences: indications, contraindications and initiation. Journal of American Psychoanalytic Association, 40, 327-347.
Seminar four will discuss the what, when and how of interpretation in consultations about and in beginning the analysis, as well as observations of associations and the transference, and ideas in the formation of associations.
Arlow, J.A. (1979). Metaphor and the psychoanalytic situation. Psychoanalytic Quarterly, 48, 363-385.
Freud, S. (1937). Constructions in analysis. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Vol. 23, 255-270.
Freud, S. (1914). Remembering, repeating and working-through. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Vol. 12, 145-156.
The seminar explores the therapeutic alliance and the analytic means for establishing and sustaining it.
Etchegoyen, H. (1999). The Fundamentals of Psychoanalytic Technique (pp. 232-258). London: Karnac.
Hanly, C. (1994). Reflections on the Place of the Therapeutic Alliance in Psychoanalysis. International Journal of Psychoanalysis,75, 457-467.
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) occurs when a fatty material called plaque builds up on the inside walls of the arteries that carry blood from the heart to the head, internal organs, and limbs. PAD is also known as atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease.
Also Known As: Arm Artery Disease, Circulation Problems, Leg Artery Disease
Basic Facts
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) occurs when a fatty material called plaque builds up on the inside walls of the arteries that carry blood to the limbs.
PAD is a common, yet serious disease.
PAD affects 8 to 12 million people in the United States. An estimated 5 percent of U.S. adults over age 50 have PAD. Among adults age 65 and older, 12 to 20 percent may have PAD.
PAD can impair physical health and diminish a person's ability to walk.
People with PAD have an increased risk for heart attack.
Early diagnosis and treatment of PAD are important to prevent disability and save lives.
PAD screening for inpiduals at high risk is very important.
PAD can be treated with lifestyle changes, medicines, and/or surgery and special procedures.
Treatment often includes making long-lasting lifestyle changes, including quitting smoking, lowering high blood pressure, lowering high cholesterol levels, and lowering blood glucose levels if you are diabetic.
PAD treatment may stop the disease from progressing and reduce the risk of heart attack, heart disease, stroke, and kidney failure.
Surgery may be necessary to supply more blood flow to the leg if a person has severe symptoms.
What Causes Peripheral Arterial Disease?
The most common cause of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is atherosclerosis. When atherosclerosis affects the arteries of the limbs, it is called PAD. The exact cause of atherosclerosis is unknown in the majority of cases. In atherosclerosis, the plaque that builds up on artery walls is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances in the blood. Smoking, diabetes, a high blood cholesterol level, and high blood pressure increase the risk of atherosclerosis.
Back to Top
Who Is At Risk for Peripheral Arterial Disease?
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) affects 8 to 12 million people in the United States. An estimated 5 percent of U.S. adults over age 50 have PAD. Among adults age 65 and older, 12 to 20 percent may have PAD.
Major Risk Factors
Major risk factors for developing PAD include:
Smoking. Smoking is more closely related to developing PAD than any other risk factor. Smoking increases the risk of developing PAD three to five times. On average, smokers who develop PAD experience symptoms 10 years earlier than nonsmokers who develop PAD. Stopping smoking will slow the progress of PAD. Smoking even one or two cigarettes daily can interfere with the treatment for PAD. Smokers and diabetics have the greatest risk of complications from PAD, including gangrene in the leg from decreased blood flow.
Chronic or serious illnesses, such as diabetes. One in three people over age 50 with diabetes is likely to have PAD. Anyone over age 50 with diabetes should be screened for PAD.
Other diseases and conditions, such as:
Kidney disease
High blood pressure or a family history of it
A high cholesterol level or a family history of it
Heart disease or a family history of it
A family history of stroke
Age. Men who are older than age 50 and women who are older than age 55 are at higher risk for PAD.
Back to Top
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Peripheral Arterial Disease?
At least half of the people who have peripheral arterial disease (PAD) don't have any signs or symptoms of the disease.
People who do have signs or symptoms may have pain when walking or climbing stairs, which may be relieved after resting. This pain is called intermittent claudication. Blood brings oxygen to the muscles, but during exercise, muscles need more blood flow. If there is a blockage in the blood vessels, muscles won't get enough blood. If a person has intermittent claudication and exercises while in pain, his or her muscles may be harmed. When resting, the muscles require less blood flow and the pain goes away. Claudication is more likely in people who also have atherosclerosis in other arteries, such as the heart and brain. About 10 percent of people with PAD have intermittent claudication.
Other signs and symptoms of PAD include:
Pain, numbness, aching, and heaviness in the muscles
Cramping in the legs, thighs, calves, and feet
A weak or absent pulse in the legs or feet
Sores or wounds on toes, feet, or legs that heal slowly, poorly, or not at all
Color changes in skin, paleness, or blueness (called cyanosis)
A decreased temperature in one leg compared to the other leg
Poor nail growth and decreased hair growth on toes and legs
Erectile dysfunction, especially among people with diabetes
Back to Top
How Is Peripheral Arterial Disease Diagnosed?
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is diagnosed based on general medical and family history, history of leg or heart problems, personal risk factors, a physical exam, and test results. An accurate diagnosis is critical, because people with PAD face a six to seven times higher risk of heart disease or stroke than the rest of the population. PAD is often diagnosed after symptoms are reported. If you have PAD, your doctor also may want to look for signs of coronary artery disease (CAD).
Medical and Family History
Medical and family history is important in diagnosing PAD. Your doctor may:
Ask about your family history of cardiovascular disease
Review your medical history, including high blood pressure or diabetes
Ask about any symptoms, including any symptoms that occur when walking or exercising
Ask if you are currently or used to be a smoker
Ask if you have any symptoms in the legs when sitting, standing, walking, or climbing
Review your diet
Review your current medicines
Physical Exam
The physical exam may involve:
Checking blood flow in your leg or foot to see if the pulse is either weak or absent.
Checking pulses in your leg arteries for an abnormal whooshing sound called a bruit (broo-E). A bruit can be heard with a stethoscope and may be a warning of a narrow or blocked section of an artery.
Checking for poor wound healing.
Comparing blood pressure between your limbs to see if blood pressure is lower in the affected limb.
Checking hair, skin, and nails for any changes that may indicate PAD.
Diagnostic Tests and Procedures
A simple test called an ankle-brachial index (ABI) can be used to diagnose PAD. The ABI compares blood pressure in the ankle with blood pressure in the arm to see how well blood is flowing. A normal ABI is 1.0 or greater (with a range of 0.90 to 1.30). The test takes about 10–15 minutes to measure both arms and both ankles. It can help the doctor find out if PAD is affecting the legs, but it will not identify which blood vessels are blocked. The ABI can be performed yearly if necessary to see if the disease is getting worse.
A Doppler ultrasound is a test that uses sound waves to tell whether a blood vessel is open or blocked. This test uses a blood pressure cuff and special device to measure blood flow in the veins and arteries in the arms and legs. The Doppler ultrasound can help to determine the level and degree of PAD.
A treadmill test will provide more information on the severity of the symptoms and the level of exercise that provokes symptoms. For this test, you will walk on a treadmill, which will help identify any difficulties that you may have during normal walking.
A magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA) uses radio wave energy to take pictures of blood vessels inside the body. MRA is a type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. An MRA can detect problems that may cause reduced blood flow in the blood vessels. It can determine the location and degree of blockage. A patient with a pacemaker, prosthetic joint, stent, surgical clips, mechanical heart valve, or other metallic devices in his or her body might not be eligible for an MRA depending on the type of metallic device.
An arteriogram is a "road map" of the arteries used to pinpoint the exact location of the blockage in a limb. An x ray is taken after injecting dye through a needle or catheter into an artery. When the dye is injected, the patient may feel mildly flushed. The pictures from the x ray can determine the location, type, and extent of the blockage. Some hospitals are using a newer method that uses tiny ultrasound cameras to take pictures inside the blood vessel.
Blood tests may be done to check the patient's blood sugar level to screen for diabetes. Blood tests also may be used to check the patient's cholesterol levels.
Back to Top
How Is Peripheral Arterial Disease Treated?
Goals of Treatment
The overall goals for treating peripheral arterial disease (PAD) are to reduce symptoms, improve quality of life, and prevent complications. Treatment is based on symptoms, risk factors, physical exam results, and diagnostic tests.
Specific Types of Treatment
Specific treatments for PAD include lifestyle changes, medicines, and surgery or special procedures.
Lifestyle Changes
Treatment often includes making long-lasting lifestyle changes, such as:
Quitting smoking. Smoking increases the risk of developing PAD three to five times. The risk for coronary artery disease (CAD) decreases rapidly if the smoker quits. The risk for CAD decreases 40 percent within 5 years of stopping smoking.
Lowering blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure can help to avoid the risk of stroke, heart attack, congestive heart failure, and kidney disease.
Lowering high cholesterol levels. Lowering cholesterol levels can delay or even reverse the buildup of plaque in the arteries.
Lowering blood glucose levels if you have diabetes. A hemoglobin A1C test—a test that gives an estimate of how well blood sugar has been controlled over the past 3 months—may be performed.
Talk with your doctor about participating in a supervised exercise therapy program. Follow a low-saturated fat, low-cholesterol diet, and eat foods with less salt, total fat, and saturated fat. Eat more fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products. If you are overweight or obese, work with your doctor to develop a reasonable weight-loss plan. If you are diabetic or at risk for critical limb ischemia, have your feet examined regularly.
Medicines
Medicines may be prescribed to:
Lower high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure
Thin the blood to prevent clots from forming due to low blood flow
Dissolve blood clots
Help improve pain in the legs that is the result of walking or climbing stairs (claudication)
Some medicines lower the level of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. LDL is the "bad" cholesterol. The higher the LDL level in the blood, the greater the chance of heart disease. Medicines may include statins, such as lovastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, and atorvastatin. Other medicines may include ezetimibe, gemfibrozil, and certain binding agents.
Blood pressure should be lowered if it is too high. Treatment should aim for a blood pressure lower than 130/80 mmHg. Many medicines are available to lower blood pressure, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), beta-blockers, diuretics ("water pills"), and calcium channel blockers.
Anticoagulants or blood thinners may be prescribed to prevent clots in the arteries. Thrombolytic therapy involves clot-dissolving drugs inserted into an artery to break up a blood clot. To stop platelets from clumping together, antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel (Plavix®) and aspirin may be prescribed. To help increase distances walked without pain and help improve claudication, pentoxifylline (Trental®) or cilostazol (Pletal®) may be prescribed.
Surgeries or Special Procedures
Surgery may be necessary if blood flow in a limb is completely or almost completely blocked. In bypass grafting surgery, the doctor uses a blood vessel from another part of your body or a tube made of synthetic (man-made) material to make a graft. This graft bypasses the blockage in the artery, allowing blood to flow around it. Surgery does not cure PAD, but it may increase blood flow to the limb.
Angioplasty may be performed to restore blood flow through a narrowed or blocked artery. During the procedure, a thin tube (catheter) is inserted into a blocked artery and a small balloon on the tip of the catheter is inflated. When the balloon is inflated, plaque is pushed against the artery walls. This causes the artery to widen, restoring blood flow. A stent, a tiny mesh tube that looks like a small spring, is now used in most angioplasties. Some stents are coated with medicine to help prevent the artery from closing again.
Other Types of Treatment
Cell and gene therapies are currently being researched, but are not yet available outside of clinical trials.
Back to Top
How Can Peripheral Arterial Disease Be Prevented?
There are a number of ways to try to prevent peripheral arterial disease (PAD). If you are a smoker, quit smoking. On average, smokers who develop PAD experience symptoms 10 years earlier than nonsmokers who develop PAD. Work to control your blood pressure, cholesterol, and glucose levels. Talk with your doctor about beginning a supervised exercise therapy program. If you are overweight or obese, work with your doctor to develop a reasonable weight-loss plan. Finally, follow a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet and eat more fruits and vegetables.
Back to Top
Living With Peripheral Arterial Disease
Ongoing Health Care Needs
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) can be treated and controlled.
If you are experiencing pain in calf or thigh muscles after walking (intermittent claudication), try to take a break and allow the pain to ease before walking again. Over time, this should increase the distance that you can walk without pain.
Check your feet and toes regularly for sores or any possible infection. Wear comfortable shoes that fit well. Maintain good foot hygiene and have professional medical treatment for corns, bunions, or calluses.
Be sure to keep your blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar (if diabetic) within normal ranges. Continue to carefully check your feet daily for any sores or infections.
Treatment should decrease pain when walking and allow you to walk longer distances without discomfort. There should be less painful cramping of leg muscles. There may be improvement in the skin's appearance and improvement in ulcers on your legs and feet.
Long-Term Care
For severe cases of chronic clinical limb ischemia (CLI), a patient may be bed-bound and need total supportive care. CLI is a severe blockage of the arteries that seriously decreases blood flow to the hands, legs, and feet. People with severe CLI may experience burning pain in the affected limb, and they can suffer from wounds that do not heal or from tissue death (gangrene).
Back to Top
Our Services
FAQs
Varicose Veins
more info
Hypertension
more info
Congestive Heart Failure
more info
Shortness of Breath
more info
Chest Pain
more info
Circulation
more info
Stress Test
more info
Vascular Imaging
more info
Leg Ulcer Treatment
more info
Critical Limb Ischemia
more info
Minimally Invasive Endovascular Procedures
more info
Echocardiogram
more info
Nuclear Stress Test
more info
Atrial Fibrillation
more info
Carotid Artery Disease
more info
PET Scans
more info
Pacemaker Implantation
more info
Preventive Cardiology
more info
Heart Angioplasty
more info
Heart Rhythm Disorders
more info
Peripheral Artery Disease
more info
Location
Lone Star Heart and Vascular Center
400 Holderrieth Blvd, Suite 104
North Houston
Tomball, TX 77375
Phone: 281-255-2000
Fax: 281-378-5918
Office Hours
Monday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Tuesday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Wednesday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Thursday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Saturday Closed Sunday Closed
senior CTM Jobs | Search & Apply Today · EPM Scientific
Reference CR/279070_1608671169
Title: Senior CTM
Type: 12-month contract w/extension possibilities
Serves as a member of one or more global crossfunctional Protocol Execution Team(s) (PETs) through all study stages (start-up, conduct, close-out) to contribute to the accomplishment of studies outlined by the clinical development plan: Participates in developing and finalizing crossfunctional activities to ensure delivery of critical clinical trial documents such as informed consent forms (ICFs), protocols, site and country budget templates, EDC, IxRS, central / specialty lab, ECG, imaging, and PRO specifications, drug supply and biomarker / sample management plans, TMF, and CSRs.
Liaises with cross-functional team members including the PET members to solicit input.
Drafts and implements study plans including; vendor oversight, risk, quality, safety, communication, trial/medical monitoring, TMF. Ensures TMF creation and QC completion.
Supports EDC and CTMS systems and data maintenance.
Tracks budget, timelines, milestones, and critical study activities, identifies issues and proposes potential resolutions.
Provides strategic operational input on protocol feasibility.
Provides input to the study budget and manages assigned vendor budget(s); communicates variances in actual versus forecasted spend in vendor budgets and presents an action plan for resolution to Protocol Execution Team Lead (PETL).
Participates in selection of vendors (participates in the Request for Proposal (RFP) process), on a global scale, in collaboration with the PETL Utilizes outputs from operational analytical tools to enhance and improve study execution.
Oversees delegated outsourced activities to ensure CRO and vendor delivery against contracted scope of work.
Contributes to global study site selection & management: Conducts global protocol, country, and site feasibility assessments.
Assists with all activities related to global site selection, contracting, set-up and maintenance.
Ensures accuracy and timeliness of CTMS, timeline planning tools and other core systems. Ensures study adherence to ICH/GCP and SOP
The capabilities required for this role are for a proven leader with the ability to manage delegated aspects of the study with minimal direction, is self-aware and takes initiative to fix and learn from mistakes, demonstrates good judgment in seeking guidance and exercises professionalism.
Experienced in managing aspects of one or more early development phase (I and II), global, complex, clinical studies and generally experienced in clinical research/development.
Highly effective verbal (including oral presentations) and written communication skills in English; effectively delivers key messages; aptitude to independently communicate with teams and stakeholders.
Experience with effective vendor management.
5+years of trial management experience in clinical and drug development.
Working knowledge of GCP/ICH requirements, international regulatory guidelines, and the drug development process.
Work on nights or weekends is not typically required, however, interaction on global clinical studies requires flexibility for occasional teleconferences / meetings outside of core working hours.
Chuck Kuhn's Asia in Photos: Brain eating amoega kills 6-year old boy
Brain eating amoega kills 6-year old boy
VietNamNet Bridge – A 6-year-old boy died and was found to have a brain abscess. Medical experts suspect that amoeba is the perpetrator.
Amoeba, photo provided by Dr. Man.
On September 17, Dr. Phan Van Hieu, Director of the Ho Chi Minh City Center for Forensic Medicine told VietNamNet that his center had received a suspected death due to parasitic amoeba.
The patient is a 6-year-old boy, living in Binh Thanh District, who had an abscess in his brain.
"The center performed tested and suspects the culprit is the amoeba. However, to be more accurate, we have sent samples to the Tropical Disease Hospital for further tests using molecular biology techniques, from which we can find out the exact cause of death," Dr. Hieu said.
The test results will return in a week.
If the boy's death was caused by the amoeba parasite, this is the second cases of brain eating amoeba in Vietnam.
Last August, VietNamNet reported about a 25-year-old man, living in Phu Yen province, who died after amoeba went through his nose to his brain. This young man went to Ho Chi Minh City for treatment but did not survive.
Dr. Dinh Nguyen Huy Man, Head of the Laboratory of the Ho Chi Minh City Hospital for Tropical Diseases, the amoeba that killed the above guy is likely to be Naegleria fowleri, which is usually found in lakes, rivers and streams.
This parasite enters the nose, gradually creeps to olfactory nerve cells to find its way into the brain.
When entering the human body, the amoeba Naegleria fowleri prolifics, then moves to the brain. It will start eating the neurons, causing terrible headaches, high fever, and disorders of perception.
If being infected with Naegleria fowleri, the patient will suffer from meningitis. Although this rarely happens, but the disease is almost progressive leading to death (mortality rate estimated at 98 percent).
Autologous transfusion has been used as a strategy to decrease the incidence of the negative effects of allogeneic transfusion, avoiding the excessive use of donated blood, a limited resource. Autologous transfusion is performed with blood that has been collected from the same patient and stored or with blood collected intraoperatively. However, since there is no predetermined date for LT, except in cases involving living donors, collecting blood in advance from the recipient is usually not feasible. In this setting, intraoperative blood salvage autotransfusion (IBSA) is used as a strategy for autologous transfusion.
The aim of this review is to give an overview of the use of IBSA in LT and its role in the management of intraoperative bleeding associated with other measures. Indications and contraindications will be evaluated, as well as the advantages, disadvantages, and cost-effectiveness of using IBSA.
Managing blood loss is a fundamental part of LT. Even the transfusion of small volumes of blood can negatively impact the duration of hospitalization for the recipient. Transfusions above 6 units have an impact on survival and retransplantation rates[5]. Although some authors question the real impact of transfusing small volumes of allogeneic blood on surgical outcomes, there is a consensus on the negative effects of massive transfusion[6,7].
Fluid resuscitation with crystalloids and blood derivatives is not intended to restore the total volume of blood lost. An experimental study showed that rats subjected to hemorrhage and transfusion of an equal blood volume had a 20% increase in portal pressure and portal-collateral resistance compared with pre-bleeding pressure[8]. The usual practice is the application of evidence-based concepts to maintain an adequate hemoglobin concentration, optimize hemostasis and minimize blood loss, which is called patient blood management[9].
The use of thromboelastometry (TEM) to define the need for transfusion of coagulation factors is effective in reducing the need for blood transfusion[7,9-11]. The use of TEM is superior to the use of standard massive transfusion protocols [transfusion of plasma, platelets, and packed red blood cells (PRBCs) in a 1:1:1 or 1:1:2 ratio][7]. However, the utilization of TEM has not shown any impact on mortality to date[12].
Transfusion of blood components during LT is a predictive factor for postoperative mortality and tumor recurrence, by mechanisms not yet completely elucidated[10]. In addition, it poses risks such as bacterial infections, anaphylaxis, hemolytic reactions, transfusion-related acute lung injury, and viral infections[6]. Another negative effect of allogeneic transfusion, observed in kidney transplant recipients, is the potential for increased rates of acute cellular rejection due to alloimmunization to the antigens present in the transfused blood[13,14]. In addition to the risks of blood transfusion, it should be noted that allogeneic blood has a lower oxygen-carrying capacity than autologous blood[6,15].
Allogeneic transfusion is an independent risk factor for cancer-specific mortality and overall mortality in patients with cancer[16,17]. The relationship between transfusion and survival is dose dependent, with a relative risk of 1.37 per unit of platelets and of 1.07 per unit of PRBCs[18]. The need for blood transfusion is also a predictor of the need for renal replacement therapy. Patients undergoing LT who required more than 17.5 units of PRBCs or 3.5 units of platelets had an increased risk of postoperative dialysis[19].
Allogeneic blood transfusion has an immunosuppressive effect[4], caused not only by the allogeneic barrier but also by cellular damage that occurs due to the storage of red blood cells[20]. Consequently, the rate of surgical wound infection is also influenced by allogeneic transfusion. A meta-analysis involving trauma patients showed an odds ratio of 3.45 (1.43-15.15) for a postoperative bacterial infection to occur after allogeneic blood transfusion[21]. In another study, the need for more than 2 units of PRBCs also increased the risk of bacterial infection in LT recipients[8]. The mechanism is not yet fully understood, but it is believed that both the immunosuppressive effect of transfusion and the supply of tumor growth factors present in the transfused blood are responsible for this effect[22,23].
Reinfusion of blood collected in the surgical field is an ancient idea. It was first successfully used by John Duncan in 1885 during leg amputation[24]. Almost a century later, in 1968, unwashed whole-blood autotransfusion was developed. This technique uses a simple and disposable device that allows reinfusion of blood. The initial results were encouraging[25]. However, postoperative hemorrhage was frequently present, since the direct use of diluted blood serum led to an intense activation of the coagulation cascade and impaired hemostasis[26].
Meanwhile, Brzica et al[27] developed a system for intraoperative collection, washing, filtration, and concentration of blood. The collected blood was mixed with an anticoagulant solution and then reinfused into the patient[27]. Current IBSA devices aspirate blood collected in the operative field through a dual-lumen suction catheter, add citrate as an anticoagulant, and then centrifuge the blood to separate its components. The autotransfusion solution is called acid-citrate-dextrose anticoagulant.
Osteosarcoma and Soft Tissue Sarcoma in Dogs
"COTC020: Evaluation of Orally Administered mTOR inhibitor Rapamycin in Dogs with Osteosarcoma and soft tissue sarcoma."
The purpose of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of rapamycin when given to dogs with cancer. Rapamycin is a drug currently approved for immunosuppression during preparatory and maintenance regimens for organ and bone marrow transplant in human patients. Early work with rapamycin suggests that this agent may also have anti-cancer properties by inhibiting an important pathway in cancer progression known as mTOR. Preclinical studies of rapamycin in mice, as well as recent data using analogous drugs in human patients suggest that mTOR blockade may be effective in the treatment of several cancers. This trial is led by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and sponsored by the Morris Animal Foundation.
Within this study, we ask that you permit and administer oral rapamycin at home for 26 days. The schedule for drug administration will either be 5 days on and 2 days off (Mon-Fri with no drug administered on Sat or Sun) or Monday, Wednesday, Friday. You will be responsible for giving oral rapamycin in a timely fashion to your dog at home. This will require 4 hours of pre-dose and 1 hour of post-dose fasting. You will be provided with a recording sheet and will be required to log the date, time, and amount of drug dosed each time your dog receives rapamycin. In addition, you will be asked to fill out an owner assessment form each time your dog returns to WSU for rechecks.
Once it is determined that your dog qualifies for the study, we will ask you a series of questions that will help us put together a detailed health history for your dog. You will schedule an appointment for the following Monday. This will be study Day 1 for your dog. On day 1, your dog will receive a physical exam, blood will be collected, and then your dog will receive their first dose of rapamycin. We will collect small amounts of blood on a set schedule throughout the day so we can measure how much rapamycin is in your dog's blood. In addition, we will collect a small amount of blood on day 2 and day 3. Your dog will spend two nights at WSU's VTH before being sent home on day 3. Your dog will need to return one week (day 8), and two weeks (day 19) later for recheck examinations and blood tests. On day 26 (end of the study), your dog will again need to spend 48 hours at the VTH for scheduled blood collection and a physical exam.
Owners are responsible for the costs associated with their dog's cancer diagnosis. If their dog was not diagnosed or treated at WSU and will be visiting with the sole intent of entering this study, owners will be responsible for the costs of the initial consultation with an oncologist and any lab work or other diagnostic tests required to determine eligibility. Once enrolled, owners will be responsible for bringing their dog to WSU's Veterinary Teaching Hospital on days 1, 8, 19, and 26. They will need to be willing to allow their dog to stay overnight at the VTH on days 1 and 2, and again on days 26 and 27. Finally, owners will be responsible for giving rapamycin pills to their dog on a set schedule at home.
**NOTE: Precautions should be taken against human ingestion or direct contact with rapamycin, especially in immunosuppressed individuals. If you think you have increased risks of immune suppression, you should contact your physician before enrolling your dog in this clinical trial. Women who are pregnant or potentially pregnant should not handle rapamycin.
Best practices for role recommendations | Cloud IAM Documentation | Google Cloud
Begin with an initial cleanup of over-granted permissions. Initially, you might see a very large number of recommendations, especially if many principals have highly permissive roles like Editor. Take the time to address all recommendations in your project or organization to ensure that all of your principals have the appropriate roles.
Recommendations that help prevent privilege escalation. Roles that allow principals to act as a service account (iam.serviceAccounts.actAs) or to get or set the IAM policy for a resource can potentially allow a principal to escalate their own privilege. Prioritize recommendations relating to these roles.
Recommendations that reduce lateral movement. Lateral movement is when a service account in one project has permission to impersonate a service account in another project. This permission can result in a chain of impersonations across projects that gives principals unintended access to resources. To mitigate this unintended access, prioritize recommendations that are associated with lateral movement insights.
When you find an over-privileged principal in one project, check other projects for recommendations involving that principal. If a principal has been granted an overly permissive role in one project, it is possible that they have been granted overly permissive roles in other projects as well. Review recommendations for the principal across multiple projects to globally reduce the principal's access to the appropriate level.
Recommender tries to provide recommendations that will not cause breaking changes in access. For example, we will never recommend a role that excludes permissions that a principal has used, passively or actively, in the last 90 days. We also use machine learning to identify other permissions that the user is likely to need.
However, we cannot guarantee that our recommendations will never cause breaking changes in access—it is possible that applying a recommendation will result in a principal being unable to access a resource that they need. We recommend reviewing How the IAM recommender works and deciding how much automation you are comfortable with. For example, you might decide to apply most recommendations automatically, but require a manual review for recommendations that add or remove a certain number of permissions, or that involve granting or revoking a specific role.
When automating recommendations, you might want to identify which resource a recommendation is for. To identify the resource, use the operation.resource field. Other fields, such as the name field, will not always represent the resource that the recommendation is for.
