Cystoid Macular Edema - EyeWiki - Uveitis and macular edema a complex relationship
HAART therapy was started at month 6 and macular oedema with reduced vision was noted by month 8. described, and there are reports of iritis8 in patients on intravitreal cidofovir. . Uveitis and Macular Edema: A Complex Relationship. So much of uveitis happens in the draining lymph nodes and doesn't happen in the eye Uveitis and Macular Edema: A Complex Relationship. HANNOVER, Germany — Response to vitrectomy in uveitis varies according to the type vitrectomy (PPV) for cystoid macular edema (CME) in different forms of uveitis, Uveitis and Macular Edema: A Complex Relationship.
The duration of the sustained release is shorter than with the fluocinolone acetonide implant. The HURON study data showed the dexamethasone implant significantly improved visual acuity 15 or more letters and reduced inflammation with a relatively good safety profile. A subgroup analysis for patients with persistent ME greater than 90 days showed that the overall study results applied to this group as well. The evidence is suggestive that intravitreal dexamethasone implants may be developed to become a viable intervention for uveitic ME.
The two implants were equivalent in their ability to prevent recurrence of non-infectious uveitis, improve visual acuity, and reduced inflammation, but that the side effect profile was more favorable for the dexamethasone intravitreal implant.
Systemic Corticosteroids Oral prednisone is often used to treat patients with significant vision-threatening uveitis bilateral inflammatory ME and for ME refractory to topical treatment. When this stage is reached, steroid-sparing medications are started and the corticosteroids are tapered slowly. OCT studies have documented a more rapid decrease of ME with oral than with periocular corticosteroid treatment, making oral therapy the preferred route for some clinicians, especially if rapid recovery is essential.
Acetazolamide and Somatostatin Analogues Acetazolamide is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. One sub-type of carbonic anhydrase, known as isoenzyme IV, is thought to be a membrane-bound fraction found in the atypical region of the RPE cell. Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase reduces aqueous production and possibly also reduces leakage from the RPE.
However, patients under 55 years appeared more likely to benefit from treatment than older patients. Elevated liver enzymes, pain, and gastrointestinal distress have also been reported.
Octreotide is a somatostatin analog that works as a potent inhibitor of growth hormone releases as well as release of certain other agents. Studies suggest that somatostatin is synthetized by RPE housing receptors.
VEGF is an endothelial cell-specific mitogen, an angiogenic inducer, and a highly potent agent favoring retinal vascular permeability. The data on anti-VEGF efficacy in inflammatory ME are primarily derived from small clinical series and anecdotal reports based on a limited number of patients. In most cases, bevacizumab was injected into eyes with persistent ME, and quiescent uveitis.
Three reports comprising 51 eyes, showed a significant but transient reduction in central retinal thickness in most patients. Possible explanations include contamination of the medications with bacterial endotoxins, formation of antibodies against immunogenic anti-VEGF molecules, and leaching of contaminants from disposable syringes, packaging materials or impurities.
Whether patients with uveitis have an increase risk on developing uveitis as a result of anti-VEGF activity remains to be further examined. Due to the transient nature of anti-VEGF intraocular injections, this treatment modality is less suitable for ME in active chronic uveitis, and more practical in patients with persistent ME and quiescent uveitis. Given the safety profile of anti-VEGF further prospective randomized intervention studies of longer follow-up and larger sample size are needed before this agent can be broadly recommended as a treatment for uveitic macular edema.
Immunomodulatory Drugs Immunomodulatory drugs have been explored in the management of uveitis complicated by macular edema with a view to greater efficacy and for an opportunity to reduce side effects from corticosteroids. There are no randomized controlled trials towards the efficacy of these agents in treatment of uveitic ME. The most common endpoint reviewed in the studies that do exist has been to reduce the use of systemic costicosteroids and to achieve a remission of uveitis.
One study focused on ME in 19 uveitic patients who were unresponsive to standard immunosuppressive therapy and were then treated with mycophenolate mofetil. Many immunologic biologics are attractive treatment options because they offer a targeted suppression of immune effector response. In autoimmune diseases, INFs appear as double agents, involved in both supportive and suppressive action.
Side effects wee common and dose dependent.
Patients commonly experienced flu-like symptoms, fatigue, and increased liver enzymes. Severe depression has also been reported. The authors suggested that the mode of action of INFs in improving macular edema might be enhancement of the barrier function of the vascular endothelium. High intraocular levels of TNF have been observed in experimental autoimmune and human uveitis.
Etanercept is considered pro-inflammatory in the eye and is not recommended for use in patients with uveitis.
Cataract Surgery - Tip for Improved Results
It goes without saying that these agents require further study before being considered safe or effective treatment options, but immunologic agents represent an exciting new frontier. Intraocular Immunosuppressive Therapy Intravitreal Methotrexate was given in 15 eyes to treat ME, 12 of 15 patients completed the final follow-up.
At 6 months both mean visual acuity and macular thickness improved. Vitamin E Nussenblatt et al reported no effect over month follow-up for 4 months of IU of vitamin E as an intervention compared to placebo.
Macular Grid Laser A case series of 6 eyes where macular grid laser was used to treat uveitic macular edema showed that best corrected visual acuity improved significantly for one eye, was stable in 3, and deteriorated in 2. Theoretically, the case for PPV in inflammatory ME is sound since many inflammatory mediators accumulate in the vitreous and a removal of these mediators may have good effect on ME.
In addition, fibrosis of the vitreoretinal interface occurs often and may result in the formation of epiretinal membranes, and subsequently, macular edema. The presence of an epiretinal membrane is a known factor associated with medical treatment failure Removal of this membrane can help to reduce ME.
In practice, results a not clear cut. The control of the uveitis is critical to prevent and treat the ME.
Despite new treatment options, and expanding knowledge on the pathophysiology of inflammatory ME, treatment remains challenging.
Uveitis is a heterogeneous, relatively uncommon condition. As such it is difficult to conduct prospective randomized clinical trials. Clinical judgment and our understanding of the disease process suggest that more aggressive treatment earlier in the disease process, improves results.
Being mindful of, and striving to prevent the permanent structural changes and subsequent macular atrophy which regularly develop in patients with long-standing ME will generally lead to better results. Because of the unpredictable outcome, many potential pitfalls, and the need for sometimes, prolonged costly treatment which may have significant side effects patient counseling is imperative. Patients with uveitis can sometimes be paralyzed by the complexity of the choices presented to them, and often fail to accurately understand the significance of their condition, the mechanism their medications work through, need for compliance, and nature of adverse effect profiles.
The most important aspect of the discussion regarding different treatment options, and something that should be clear to all clinicians as they consider treatment options is the natural history of the condition without adequate treatment.
Traditionally, modern treatment of uveitic ME has been achieved mainly through immunosuppression with steroid therapy. The dexamethasone implant has duration to 3 to 5 months, and may currently represent the most promising long acting steroid based implant option.
Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide is less potent than dexamethasone, but can last 3 months or longer. Because of their relatively high cost, and the fact that neither their efficacy or safety profiles have been well established, it would be prudent to reserve these agents for truly refractory cases, preferably at centers for uveitis so that further knowledge can be effectively gathered.
PPV offers potential for select cases with pathologic vitreoretinal interface and deserves further investigation in clinical trials. In unilateral ME in which structural changes can be demonstrated, treatment with PPV should be entertained before long-term treatment with immunosuppressive drugs is initiated.
Several papers acknowledged that despite best efforts, there is no way of differentiating treatment-induced disease quiescence from spontaneous disease remission.
Thus, current interventions are typically long duration and slow withdrawal. All patients need continued observation. As we gain more experience and follow-up with the newer treatments that have become available, outcomes should improve. The medical literature provides tools for clinical judgment, but as yet no clear silver bullet for therapy.
Treatment plans may rely on clinical judgment until better data and more definitive treatment options are available. Footnotes Raquel Goldhardt declares that she has no conflict of interest. Bradley Simon Rosen Human and Animal Rights and Informed Consent This article does not contain any studies with human or animal subjects performed by any of the authors. Update on treatment of inflammatory macular edema. Ocular immunology and inflammation. They propose an algorithm for the treatment of uveitic macular edema pointing out the individual risk-benefit ratio when systemic immunosuppressive therapy is used.
Intravitreal bevacizumab for treatment of uveitic macular edema. Cystoid macular edema in uveitis. Highlights the current understanding of pathphysiology and immunology of uveitic macular edema. The treatment of chronic uveitic macular oedema. The British journal of ophthalmology.
Medical treatment of cystoid macular edema. Comparison of cyclooxygenase inhibitory activity and ocular anti-inflammatory effects of ketorolac tromethamine and bromfenac sodium.
Current medical research and opinion. Journal of ocular pharmacology and therapeutics: Becker M, Davis J. Vitrectomy in the treatment of uveitis. American journal of ophthalmology.
Risk factors for cystoid macular oedema in patients with uveitis. Retrospective cross-sectional study evaluating ophthalmologic and systemic factors associated with uveitic macular edema. Smoking as a risk factor for cystoid macular edema complicating intermediate uveitis. Impact of macular edema on visual acuity in uveitis. Cross-sectional study that investigated causes of decrease in visual acuity in patients with uveitis.
Progress in retinal and eye research. NSAIDs in combination therapy for the treatment of chronic pseudophakic cystoid macular edema. Jones J, Francis P. Ophthalmic utility of topical bromfenac, a twice-daily nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent. Expert opinion on pharmacotherapy.
Efficacy of bromfenac sodium ophthalmic solution in preventing cystoid macular oedema after cataract surgery in patients with diabetes. Safety and efficacy of bromfenac ophthalmic solution Bromday dosed once daily for postoperative ocular inflammation and pain.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in ophthalmology. Bromfenac alone or with single intravitreal injection of bevacizumab or triamcinolone acetonide for treatment of uveitic macular edema. Intravitreal triamcinalone acetonide for refractory uveitic cystoid macular oedema: Comparison of the efficacy and safety of different methods of posterior subtenon injection. Periocular triamcinolone acetonide injections for cystoid macular edema complicating noninfectious uveitis. Triamcinolone-induced intraocular pressure elevation: Other causes of visual impairment in uveitis include glaucoma, optic nerve involvement, vitreous opacification from the inflammatory response, and cataract formation usually attributed to both the disease process and chronic steroid use.
The exact pathology of macular edema is complicated and uncertain. The autoimmune theory is acceptable in patients who have been identified as genetically susceptible to uveitis. Inner and outer blood—retinal barrier breakdown in the central retina due to prolonged or severe inflammation leads to macular edema. The retinal vascular endothelium changes with activation of adhesion molecules and lymphocytes.
The fluid is predominantly located in the outer plexiform layer, as seen on OCT scanning. Development of an epiretinal membrane is also a consequence of chronic macular edema. Thus it is important to treat macular edema early. Further chronic macular edema may become more difficult to treat. Refractory macular edema usually occurs in patients with chronic or recurrent uveitis. Epidemiology Most of the epidemiological data is related to developed countries.
The estimated annual incidence of uveitis is 17—52 cases perUveitis is predominately a disease of adults between 20 and 60 years. The mechanism of action of steroids involves the inhibition of prostaglandin and leukotriene synthesis, as well as downregulation of cell adhesion and major histocompatibility molecules. However, it is associated with systemic side effects. Long-term use of steroids can cause peptic ulceration, osteoporosis, and necrosis of the hip, weight gain, muscle weakness, hyperglycemia, and systemic hypertension, progression of glaucoma, and progression of cataracts.
Less commonly, intravenous methyl prednisolone is used typically at much higher doses than that given orally, such as — mg doses repeated over 2—3 days. Forms of periocular injections include subconjunctival, orbital floor, and sub-Tenon. A steroid-filled syringe is advanced with the bevel facing towards the globe, superotemporally along the curve of the globe.
The needle is advanced until the hub touches the conjunctiva. The plunger is slightly withdrawn to rule out injecting steroids within a vessel. Conjunctiva along with Tenon is lifted approximately 10 mm away from the limbus using blunt serrated forceps. A gauge cannula is inserted and advanced 3 mm within the episcleral space.
The cannula is advanced about 12—14 mm in the sub-Tenon space with the stylet withdrawn. The syringe is then loaded with the steroid and injected.
It is licensed in the US for posterior uveitis. The implant itself is a 1. The implant is surgically placed into the vitreous cavity. Pharmacokinetic studies in rabbits have demonstrated the delivery of constant levels of the corticosteroid to the posterior pole.
Although there is a reduction in systemic side effects, there are significant local side effects, including increased intraocular pressure requiring filtration surgery and cataract progression. Carbonic anhydrase catalyzes the hydration of carbon dioxide to bicarbonate, which dissociates to form hydrogen ions and bicarbonate. One subtype of carbonic anhydrase is isoenzyme IV, which is thought to be a membrane-bound fraction found in the apical region of the RPE cell.
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase reduces aqueous production and possibly fluid leaking from the RPE. It is a potent inhibitor of the release of growth hormone and other hormones.
It is most commonly used for the treatment of acromegaly, carcinoid tumors, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-secreting tumors.
Given the receptors are housed in the RPE, somatostatin may play a role in fluid and ion-transport balance. Somatostatin may also inhibit the immune response and have a role in controlling inflammation. Hence, octreotide has been hypothesized as a potential treatment for uveitic macular edema.
Aptamers are oligonucleotide ligands that are selected for high-affinity binding to molecular targets. VEGF has been shown to be an endothelial cell-specific mitogen, an angiogenic inducer, and is also known to increase retinal vessel permeability.
In theory, taking CBD can improve the brain's ability to produce and uptake serotonin and similar neurotransmitters. While this treatment won't work for every patient suffering from depression, anxiety, or PTSD, many people have found some relief through CBD products.
While case studies show some preliminary evidence for CBD as a sleep aid, most support comes from anecdotal evidence.
But with about 10 percent of people using CBD for sleep concerns and a large portion reporting positive effects, we'll likely see more research appear in the near future.
However, it can be difficult to measure effectiveness in a clinical setting. Fortunately, since CBD doesn't have the same addictive properties or side effects as many popular prescription medications, there is little risk associated with at least trying this treatment option.
Of course, CBD is not a guaranteed solution and should not be relied on for serious mental disorders. We recommend speaking with your doctor about trying CBD oil or supplementing your current medication regimen with CBD before making any changes.
When most people think of concussions, they think of the delirium, headache, and other short-term symptoms that can follow. But for severe concussions, the reality can be much more severe and long-lasting.
On the bright side, early research shows that CBD can help treat these long-term symptoms, including pain and depression. In addition to relieving symptoms on the surface, CBD might even help improve neuropathic healing and overall recovery.
Since concussion recovery is largely approached with a "do nothing" attitude, CBD oil might be the only therapy a patient can use. Because of this, there is little risk in choosing CBD oil as a treatment option.
Although pain is a very real thing for those experiencing it, all pain technically starts as a chemical response within the body. Just like CBD oil can help manage how your neurotransmitters respond to serotonin, it can also influence how your body responds to pain-inducing chemicals.
But pain is a complex thing to treat. Not all types of pain respond to the same treatments, and not all patients experience the same level of relief.
Based on current research, CBD therapy shows the most pr​omise in treating joint pain and neuropathic pain.
With joint pain, CBD's pain-relieving properties combine with anti-inflammatory compounds. This makes CBD extremely effective for treating arthritis and similar pain conditions.
The exact reason why CBD is useful in treating this pain it isn't entirely known, but likely has to do with the close relationship between the nervous and endocannabinoid systems.
While research shows that CBD can treat pain to some degree, much of the same research shows that THC offers even more pain-relieving benefits.
But we can't ignore this compound and its benefits when discussing the relationship between cannabinoids and pain management.
Before CBD was legal across most of the United States, it had already gained popularity for the treatment of seizures.
Today, Epidiolex (a seizure medication) is the first prescription medication to contain CBD as an active ingredient.
In clinical stu​dies, CBD has been shown to lower the number of seizures in a range of patients. Including those with different seizure-causing disorders.
With hard evidence showing that CBD can help improve the lives of seizure patients, these disorders might become the forefront for nationwide cannabis policies in the future.
Many cancer patients have a difficult choice to make: allow their cancer to continue unchecked or undergo chemotherapy and live with the symptoms. These chemotherapy symptoms can be so severe that patients will opt out of the treatment altogether.
The DAISY Award | VA Charleston Health Care | Veterans Affairs
The DAISY Award is an international program that rewards and celebrates the extraordinary clinical skill and compassionate care given by nurses everyday. The Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center is proud to be a DAISY Award Partner, recognizing our selected nurses with this special honor each quarter. These nurses consistently demonstrate excellence through their clinical expertise and extraordinary compassionate care. They are recognized as outstanding role models in our nursing community.
The Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center also participates in the DAISY Team Award program. The DAISY Team Award recognizes that while an idea to achieve better patient and family outcomes may start with one individual, it often takes an entire team to implement successfully. The DAISY Team Award is designed to honor collaboration by two or more people, led by a nurse, who identify and meet patient and/or patient family needs by going above and beyond the traditional role of Nursing. Annually during Nurses Week, these stand-out teams will be presented with this award.
To nominate a nurse or team led by a nurse, click on the appropriate button below to download a fillable form.
Once complete, submit the form by email to Darrell.Brace@va.gov OR bring the completed form to the medical center and place it in the DAISY nomination box in the Nursing Service Office waiting room, Room B552.
The doctors who worked with the researchers evaluated 22 of the participants, all between 2 and 5 years of age, and documented improvements in 13 of them six months after a single infusion. Supporters of stem cell therapy for autism say it can reduce characteristics of autism.
Polly Skjei08/11/223 minutes read
The doctors who worked with the researchers evaluated 22 of the participants, all between 2 and 5 years of age, and documented improvements in 13 of them six months after a single infusion. Supporters of stem cell therapy for autism say it can reduce characteristics of autism. They say it can improve behavior, anxiety, social skills, communication, speech, and ability to concentrate. stem cell therapy is rapidly evolving as a potential treatment for many diseases, such as autism, that do not have any medical or surgical treatment available.
Selective areas in the brain of people with autism have been observed to be damaged and not functioning normally. The main goal of this therapy is to reverse this damage by replacing damaged cells with healthy cells. As a result, it restores lost functions and helps to improve the quality of life. This therapy makes individuals independent and helps them to integrate into society.
In most cases, you won't feel an improvement for about three weeks, and in some cases, six to eight weeks. However, once improvement begins, you may notice changes in your body for six months or more. Beyond stem cell therapy as a valuable tool for treating autism, stem cells also offer the possibility of an in-depth study of the pathology of ASD. Children of immunoactivated mothers (autism model of maternal immune activation) develop preferential myeloid lineage potential and altered differentiation of HSCs, 86 The importance of this work reflects that immune changes during maternal life could confer alterations in the stem cell lineage throughout of all the life of the offspring.
Another clinical trial indicates that stem cell therapy works best when combined with an educational intervention. The study shows that the combined results of both have significantly helped children with autism improve their verbal, communication and day-to-day social skills. Interestingly, combination therapy has also been shown to reduce hyperactivity and repetitive behaviors. Researchers have also compared these changes to natural childhood development and hope that stem cell therapy has the potential to become a standard treatment option for children with autism.
Stem cells are cells in the body that have the ability to multiply and differentiate into specialized cells. Treatment involves intravenous infusions of umbilical cord blood (MNC) mononuclear cells, a component of blood that includes stem cells. The U.S. FDA does not approve any stem cell product from any source, including the patient himself, to treat autism or any other common condition or disease.
In vitro, iPSCs can be made to differentiate into several cell types such as dopamine and motor neurons, dendritic cells, functional cardiomyocytes, macrophages, hepatocytes, and hematopoietic and endothelial cells. In summary, it usually takes at least a month before you begin to notice the gradual effects of stem cell therapy, and you may notice changes in your medical condition for 6 months or more. This means that, when used in some medical treatments, stem cells have the potential to solve many underlying problems. The FDA has approved the limited use of stem cells in treatments for some types of cancer or disorders of the blood and bone marrow.
The group received a bone marrow-derived mononuclear cell transplant (BMMNC), which uses stem cells from the blood. The purpose of this review is to consider the status of these clinical trials of cell therapies for autism, to assess progress, to ask if it justifies the continuation of this approach and, if so, what steps should be taken by clinical and preclinical researchers alike to improve the prospects of success. Initially, the first theory about the mechanism of action of stem cells was that cell therapy could act through a “cell replacement mechanism”; today, large emerging evidence has shown that cell therapy works by providing trophic or “chaperone” support to injured tissue and brain. Three other major stem cell studies have been conducted in children with autism, but all have had wide variation in the treatments used, the study participants, the way the results were measured, and even the way the studies were designed.
One important difference is that children with metabolic disorders received chemotherapy before cord blood transplantation and stem cells were engrafted for life, while in the treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders, children do not receive chemotherapy and stem cells are not expected to engraft. There is some anecdotal evidence that clinics offering unapproved stem cell treatments benefit people with autism; however, there is very little evidence from medical studies that this is possible. These changes correlate with clinical improvements confirming the positive effect of stem cell therapy on autism. .
.
References
Stem cell therapy and autism | Raising Children Network
Stem Cell Therapy | Autism Child Development Centre (ACDC) in Mumbai, India
doctors
autism
brain
people
cells
Next postCost of stem cell treatment for ataxia?
New Articles
Cost of stem cell treatment for ataxia?
Polly Skjei2 minutes read
See the basic overview of the pricing process for stem cell therapy for ataxia. Our partner's doctor will review each case individually.
What is the life expectancy after stem cell transplant?
Polly Skjei1 minute read
Factors that estimated mortality included age, high-risk disease, chronic GVHD, and the use of PBSC grafts. Registries covering a total of 4,329 patients were reviewed, with a median age at diagnosis of 59.Throughout the group, these individuals were followed for a median of 10.5 years and a median overall survival of 6.9 years.
How long does it take for a stem cell transplant to work?
Polly Skjei2 minutes read
Blood counts may take 6 to 12 months, or even longer, to approach normal and for the immune system to work well. During this time, your team will continue to keep a close eye on you.
How effective is stem cell therapy for neuropathy?
Polly Skjei3 minutes read
Neuropathic pain is a chronic condition of a heterogeneous nature and has different causes. Different and more onerous than nociceptive pain, neuropathic pain more severely affects people's quality of life.
The reflection above characters much of Hofbauer's research: a kind of try-and-see approach that attempted to find success and justified the original experiments with factual evidence afterwards.
Hofbauer also attempted to connect the human pituitary gland to the origins of cancer within mothers. He saw the cancer as a continued production of growth hormone that led to increased cell division. Although he was unable to link his theory to all cancers, Hofbauer successfully utilized X-ray radiology on the pituitary to help patients which was a precursor to modern radiation treatments. [16]
Thomas F. Baskett wrote in his book, Eponyms and Names in Obstetrics and Gynaecology, that Hofbauer was "arrogant, egotistical and aggressive." Baskett recalls a story where Hofbauer told a junior colleague to write about their meeting in this manner: "Go home and write in your diary that today you talked to Hofbauer." [3]

A group of 80 Americans are locked in their high-rise corporate office in Bogota, Colombia and ordered by an unknown voice coming from the company's intercom system to participate in a deadly game of killed or be killed.
Membrane Week 2008
By Water & Waste Digest
The American Membrane Technology Association (AMTA) and their affiliate, the Southeast Desalting Association (SEDA), are organizing and conducting Membrane Week, the AMTA/SEDA 2008 Joint Conference & Exposition. The event will be held July 14 to 17 at the Naples Grande Resort & Club in Naples, Fla.
The conference will be beneficial to people with all levels of knowledge or interest in membranes. Current membrane engineers or users should not miss the opportunity to learn the latest techniques and keep up with state-of-the-art technologies while also fulfilling their licensing requirements. This conference has approval from Florida and several other states for CEU credit.
Almost 90 exhibitors—global leaders in membrane and desalination with varying roles in the industry, including engineers, organization leaders and manufacturers of various products, systems and components—along with planners, regulators, engineers, manufacturers and operators will gather under one roof.
Key membrane topics will be discussed at the event, including membrane bioreactors, microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nanofiltration, brackish water reverse osmosis, seawater reverse osmosis desalination, electrodialysis reversal and more.
The conference will commence on Monday, July 14, with two preconference workshops sponsored by the National Water Research Institute and the Affordable Desalination Collaboration. Throughout the next three days, there will be over 80 presentations in concurrent sessions, followed by committee and board meetings. These sessions are filled with practical and pertinent information about various membrane technologies, including sessions that focus on just the basics for novices. More than 20 presentations will cover various components used in membrane plants, such as pumps, energy recovery systems, controls, pretreatment and post-treatment. Several sessions are also dedicated to planning, permitting, procurement and financing membrane plants. There are also sessions that are geared directly torward membrane plant operators and supervisors.
Two membrane facility tours are planned as a part of the conference, providing the chance to get an up-close view of two large and very impressive membrane plants. This will also provide an opportunity to get some hands-on training and ask questions of those who already have experience with membrane technology implementation. Put their knowledge and experience to work for you.
Registration forms are available at the AMTA website, www.amtaorg.com [5].
membraneweek1.pdf [6]
For more information, contact the American Membrane Technology Association at 772.463.0820 or by e-mail at [email protected] [7].
Source URL: https://www.wwdmag.com/membrane-week-2008-0
[1] http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.wwdmag.com/membrane-week-2008-0&t=Membrane+Week+2008
[2] http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Membrane+Week+2008&url=https://www.wwdmag.com/membrane-week-2008-0
[3] https://plus.google.com/share?url=https://www.wwdmag.com/membrane-week-2008-0
[4] http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://www.wwdmag.com/membrane-week-2008-0&mini=true&title=Membrane+Week+2008&ro=false&summary=The+American+Membrane+Technology+Association+%28A...&source=
Background Combined latissimus dorsi and prosthetic reconstruction is a useful reconstructive option in patients with a history of breast radiation who are not good candidates for abdominally based autologous reconstruction. One difficulty, particularly in obese patients, is that the thickness of the flap can impair port localization, increasing the risk of inadvertent puncture during expansion. The authors sought to investigate the upper limits of tissue thickness at which tissue expansion can be reliably performed. Methods A cadaveric study was designed in which 2 blinded observers attempted to localize the port of a Mentor CPX-4 expander under tissue 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 cm thick. Thirty attempts were made per tissue thickness. Results For tissue thicknesses of 1 to 4 cm, the success rate was 100% (k = 1). At 5 cm, the success rate decreased to 86.6% (k = 1); at 6 cm, 43.3% (k = 0.85). Point biserial correlation revealed a negative correlation between tissue thickness and accuracy at a thicknesses of greater than 4 cm (r = −0.55, P
https://journals.lww.com/annalsplasticsurgery/Fulltext/2018/07000/Combined_Autol...
Conclusions For pseudogynecomastia, the treatment algorithm of the Gusenoff classification should be modified and adapted according to our recommendations to achieve more optimal masculine results.
Conclusions Liposomal bupivacaine decreases postoperative pain, opioid, and antiemetic use in select patients. Liposomal bupivacaine might not be equally efficacious in pain reduction in obese or postmenopausal women given the theoretical increased absorption by adipose tissue. In addition, liposomal bupivacaine may have a dose-dependent effect, and weight-based dosing should be investigated.
Source: Annals of Plastic Surgery - February 7, 2018 Category: Cosmetic Surgery Tags: Breast Surgery Source Type: research
AbstractPurposeAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO), 34.7% of females in the United States are obese (BMI ≥ 30) in 2014, compared to 32.5% in 2010. The previous research has demonstrated high BMI as an independent risk factor for surgical complications after breast surgery. As more patients become obese, we sought to examine whether increasing obesity had an effect on outcomes of women who underwen t a unilateral mastectomy without breast reconstruction.MethodsThe study reviewed the 2007 –2012 ACS-NSQIP database and identified all patients who underwent a unilateral mastectomy without recons...
Source: Breast Cancer Research and Treatment - January 11, 2018 Category: Cancer & Oncology Source Type: research
More News: Breast Surgery | Eating Disorders & Weight Management | Men | Obesity | Plastic Surgery | Study
Proteinuria is closely related with Swelling in Kidney Disease. As long as proteinuria is treated, swelling will also disappear naturally. How does Toxin-Removing Therapy control intractable proteinuria?
LuLu is a Membranous Nephropathy patient with recurrent proteinuria. Before coming to our hospital, she took hormones for three weeks to treat proteinuria 2+ and swelling. After these symptoms disappeared, she discharged hospital.
However, when she came back home, the swelling relapsed again even though she always took hormones.
By chance, she heard our hospital—Huaxia Kidney Disease Research Institute from one of her friend introduce. And they came here for treatment.
She did systemic test, which showed 24UPr 3.63g. Through the characteristic examination of our hospital, we found her illness condition Membranous Nephropathy.
After about three weeks' treatment, her swelling disappeared, and 24UPr reduced to 0.71g.
This time she kept stay in hospital to ensure the illness condition won't relapse any more. She was satisfied with the treatment and said she would come back for reexamination. Best wishes for her!
If you want to know more information about Toxin-Removing Therapy for Kidney Disease, you can freely consult ONLINE DOCTOR or leave message below.
Bald Eagle #20-3131 | The Wildlife Center of Virginia
Upon examination, Dr. Cameron was unable to find any significant injury to the bird, and confirmed that the lead level was "subclinical" at a level of 0.03 ppm. The eagle also had a slow heart rate, potentially indicating an additional toxicity, though it may have also been due to anesthesia that was administered earlier in the day at Southwest.
Dr. Cam administer a dose of atropine to stimulate the bird's heart, and also began a course of oral chelation therapy to remove the lead from the eagle's system. The staff will closely monitor the eagle this week to ensure that she is eating and that her heart rate is returning to a normal rate.
The rehabilitation staff feel that the eagle is at its target exercise goal, indicating that the bird has regained its stamina and conditioning. The veterinary team will evaluate for release next week.
Details for the 2019 conference have been released and be access via the link on the menu on the left side of the page!
Conference registration is only open to members, so please ensure you are logged in before clicking onto registration otherwise you won't be able to proceed!
International Camelid Conference 2019
British Camelids Ltd (BCL) has once again offered to sponsor two members of the BVCS to attend the International Camelid Conference at Oregon State University from March 1st - 3rd 2019. Click the heading to see full details.
Camelid Plasma Transfusions
Claire Whitehead (BVCS President) has been working with Pet Blood Bank UK to develop and launch a UK-wide processing service for camelid blood for plasma production.
A Camelid Plasma webinar has been produced to give practical guidance and support to help ensure plasma can be collected and transfused safely and effectively.
2018 Ohio Conference
British Camelids Ltd (BCL) has once again offered to sponsor two members of the BVCS to attend the International Camelid Conference at The Ohio State University College of Veterinary Medicine from March 9th - 11th 2018. Click the heading to see full details.
International Camelid Health Conference 2017
British Camelids Ltd (BCL) has once again offered to sponsor 2 members of the BVCS to attend The International Camelid Health Conference at The Oregon State University College of Veterinary Medicine from March 3rd – 5th, 2017.
Click here to find out how to apply - Applications close 20th January 2017.
2016 Conference
A very successful conference was held in Chester on the 12/13th of November. The general theme was 'Surgery in Camelids' with lectures given by the invited principal speaker Dr Andy Niehaus from Ohio State University, USA.
With two days of vet lectures, an owners day and informal events, the whole weekend was very informative and entertaining.
Welcome to the NEW Website
The new BVCS website goes live at the 2016 Conference.
2015 Conference
The Beaumont Estate Hotel, Old Windsor, the venue for the 2015 BVCS Conference which was attended by 30 vets over the 10th and 11th October, as well as over 40 owners who had their own meeting on the Sunday. Click the photo for full details.
Vitamin D Overdose Warning
BVCS President Claire Whitehead warns vets and owners of overdosing with Vitamin D.
Haemonchus Contortus
Claire Whitehead reports on a rise in cases.
BVCS Logo Competition Winner
We unveil the new BVCS Logo!
Liver Fluke Warning
BVCS President Claire Whitehead advises on Fasicola Hepatica in camelids.
2017 Conference
The details for the 2017 conference are released - booking form included!
The 2017 conference will be held on the 18-9th November at the Manor House Hotel & Golf Club, Castle Combe, Nr Bath, SN14 7HX.
