I am a private practice counselor/therapist serving clients in and around Owings Mills, Maryland, as well as online as needed. As your therapist, it is my priority to create a therapeutic atmosphere that promotes growth and positive change, for you. I look forward to working with you to addresses your challenges and realize your goals. Therapy is a process that can move you toward being the healthiest version of yourself and living the life you desire.
Treatment Approach
I use a variety of approaches to address my clients unique needs. Many successful treatment plans will utilize a foundation of behavioral, cognitive/cognitive-behavioral, compassion focus therapy, intelligent energy management (stress management), hypnotherapy, person-centered, psychoeducational, solution-focused brief therapy therapy then quickly move toward a tailored treatment plan and approach that includes tools to help sustain the growth experienced in regular therapy.
Additionally, there is a growing body of research that supports the practice of self-compassion and mindfulness in psychotherapy. Neuroscience research reveals individuals that practice these techniques are happier, more resilient, and better equipped to heal painful memories from the past. It is my honor and mission to help my clients move past what’s blocking them from reaching their full potential individually and in their relationships.
“What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.”
– Ralph Waldo Emerson
Education & Credentials:
License #: LC4758
License State: MD
Practicing Since: 2008
Education: Licensed in Clinical Professional Counseling
Masters in Pastoral Counseling
HeartMath Certified Practitioner for Stress, Anxiety and Emotional Regulation
Trained in Emotional Freedom Technique
Trained in Hypnotherapy
About Me
As an experienced counselor/therapist, it is my joy to teach you how to use your mind and your heart to shift your stress and suffering into balance, resilience and ease.
Schedule An Appointment
443-625-9580
Send Email
Online Sessions Available
Office location:
"I'd love to hear from you. Contact me to schedule a free 15 minute consultation."
Recent Blog Posts
Create Coherence Connecting to Your Heart with Positive Emotion
How To Get What You Want
ACT on Life, not your fears!
Marnie Kahn, LCPC
Find help for Anger Management, Anxiety or Fears, Depression, Hypnotherapy, Spirituality, Stress, Women’s Issues, Feeling stuck
Home › Courses › Principles of Patient Adherence & Support Solutions
Understand the drivers of non-adherent behaviour – Identify adherence opportunities to improve commercial brand outcomes – Learn how to design Patient Support Programmes that resonate with all stakeholders.
attendees since launch in 2014
Prof. John Weinman & Nathan O'Donnell
Prof. Weinman is one of the most prominent experts in the field of patient adherence and is head of Health Psychology (Europe) for Atlantis Healthcare, global leaders in patient behaviour change & adherence solutions.
Nathan O'Donnell is Director of Client Services at Atlantis Healthcare with expertise in designing, developing and implementing global PSPs.
Have the unique opportunity to interact with one of the world's leading experts on improving patient adherence, Prof. John Weinman, and learn from Director of Client Services Nathan O'Donnell how to design, develop and implement global PSPs.
Whilst the challenge of non-adherence has been around for as long as medications exist, successful efforts to address the challenge have been scarce. This is primarily due to a lack of knowledge in two areas: What does an effective intervention look like for a specific patient? How do we scale this across markets and conditions?
The Content & Experts: In order to answer these questions, Principles of Patient Adherence & Support Solutions will be presented by two experts who have been at the cutting edge of these challenges for a number of years, and will relay their collective expertise and experience. Prof. John Weinman is a key opinion leader in the design of interventions to address non-adherence. Attendees are able to learn about the clinical background to non-adherence, along with the validated approaches to create evidence-based support programmes. Nathan O'Donnell has extensive experience in patient support strategy, ensuring evidence-based behaviour change principles are at the heart of all solutions, driving effective and measurable outcomes that demonstrate a positive impact in the lives of patients, caregivers and HCPs.
The Principles of Patient Adherence & Support Solutions course is the only available public training course delivered by Prof. John Weinman and Nathan O'Donnell on the topic of patient adherence.
Agenda of Principles of Patient Adherence & Support Solutions
Introduction to Non-Adherence and the Implications for Pharma
How important is non-adherence to
Where are the opportunities for pharma?
Short interactive task to identify drivers of health behaviour
What are the Drivers of Non-Adherence?
Information alone is not enough – the old model has failed
The importance of beliefs - Leventhal's Self-Regulatory Model
Short interactive exercise to demonstrate how patient-beliefs manifest through real life examples
Designing a Patient Support Programme (PSP)
A PSP design approach
Understand – building an evidence base for the PSP
Connect – delivering effective interventional content
Change – measuring patient support services
Measuring adherence and PSP's
Patient-enrollment
HCP buy-in
Exercise – Design Your Patient Support Programme
Interactive exercise to go through the process of designing PSPs
Understand - what do we need to know?
Connect - how do we bring this message to patients?
Change - integrating effective measurement
This 1-day seminar perfectly balances theory with practice. Lectures alternate with short interactive exercises that bring some of the ideas and concepts to life. This hands-on course ends with a workshop during which you will learn how to design a Patient Support Programme.
As this course is delivered by Prof. Weinman and Nathan O'Donnell, experts from Atlantis Healthcare - a world leader in evidence-based personalised patient support programs, executives from other professional service agencies should request approval prior to registering for this course. Please contact Annelies Swaan, Head of Business Operations, for more information (annelies.swaan@celforpharma.com, tel +32 (0)2 709 01 42).
Grace Health Receives Centering Site Approval - Grace Health
By Diane CraigOctober 25, 2016July 17th, 2018Health Care News
Grace Health recently received full approval from the Centering Healthcare Institute as an official Centering site. Per the Centering Healthcare Institute, it is unusual for any site to receive full approval with their initial application.
What is Centering? With CenteringPregnancy, women meet with their healthcare provider and other women with similar due dates throughout their pregnancy. Grace Health started CenteringPregnancy in 2015 with its first group meeting on June 3. During the first meeting, women spent 2 hours with their nurse midwife and nurse getting all of their questions answered plus they learned from the other women in the group by sharing their experiences. CenteringPregnancy offers monthly visits for the first five months and then every two weeks until birth. After the babies are born, the groups have a reunion and share birth stories.
As a result of Centering, there are better health outcomes, women gain more self-confidence, and they build friendships that can last a lifetime. A total of 43% of eligible pregnant women seen at Grace Health are being served through Centering. What do they have to say about Centering? 100% of the women are highly satisfied with the care they received through Centering. Many have stated that they recommend it to others. Breastfeeding rates for Grace Health Centering participants is 83% compared to Grace Health's overall rate of 79%. Grace Health's prematurity rate is significantly lower than the rest of Calhoun County and the State. The most recent data available from the State (2014) reports the prematurity rate at 12.3%; Calhoun County, for the same timeframe, is 10.8%. Grace Health's prematurity rate for 2015 was 7.2% and year to date through August 2016 is 4.5%.
Given the success of CenteringPregnancy, Grace Health will soon be starting CenteringParenting. CenteringParenting begins after the baby is born, recognizes the importance of mom's and baby's health, and keeps parents engaged in their child's care.
Heart screenings keeping students safe on the field | health enews
Home / Heart care / Keeping young hearts safe
Eighty-two percent of heart-related deaths have occurred with physical exertion during competition or training, according to the American Heart Association.
In the midst of school sports, young athletes are taking the football field. Although public focus remains on concussions as the sports issue of most concern, a New York Times article recently revealed that sudden cardiac arrest is the number one killer of young athletes.
One Chicago cardiologist, Dr. Joseph Marek, concerned that little was being done to prevent heart attacks among young athletes, began Young Hearts for Life, a program that provides electrocardiogram or EKG/ECGs screenings to students in area high schools. These tests are believed to be the key to early detection and treatment.
Dr. Marek, a physician at Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove, Ill. with Advocate Medical Group, now works with other Advocate Health Care physicians and health care professionals to detect heart irregularities in active high-school-age students before a tragic episode occurs.
"It's unimaginable to see a young athlete who's been conditioning and training to die suddenly of sudden cardiac arrest," Dr. Marek says. "Knowing these kinds of statistics, I couldn't sit on the sidelines anymore. I had to act."
Dr. Marek knew to make an impact; many students would need to get screened. He and his team, therefore, devised a system that has enabled them to perform nearly 100,000 EKG screenings in less than eight years.
The program was started to protect athletes. As their adrenaline increases during games, so does the stress on their heart. The combination of stress and exertion can cause heart problems to surface, but help often comes too late.
The physical examination that virtually every athlete across the country must pass to play a school sport includes listening to the heartbeat, checking blood pressure and reviewing family medical history. Additional testing is typically not done unless a red flag is raised.
Dr. Frank Zimmerman, director of pediatric electrophysiology at Advocate Children's Hospital in Oak Lawn, Ill., says it is unfortunate that the standard high school sports physical examination does not include tests to detect heart conditions that could lead to sudden death.
In some European countries, most notably Italy, young athletes are required to have EKGs to play sports, but not in the United States. Many doctors strongly advocate adding an EKG, to the pre-participation exam. They say it would detect about two-thirds of the deadly, concealed heart problems aggravated by exercise in competition.
For more information about Young Hearts for Life, call 630.785.4366.
GodsCountry November 8, 2013 at 10:44 am · Reply
High School is much too late. To be what these folks want the program to be, it needs to be done in early elementary school.
The new report by Expert Market Research titled, 'Global Thrombin Market Report and Forecast 2022-2027', gives an in-depth analysis of the global thrombin market, assessing the market based on its segments like products, dosage forms, end-users, and major regions. The report tracks the latest trends in the industry and studies their impact on the overall market. It also assesses the market dynamics, covering the key demand and price indicators, along with analysing the market based on the SWOT and Porter's Five Forces models.
The increasing incidences of haemorrhage and haemophilia in several countries across the globe are driving the growth of the thrombin industry. The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention of the United States of America revealed that Haemophilia A affects 1 in 5,000 male births, and 70% of them are treated in haemophilia treatment centres. The surge in surgeries being conducted owing to the increasing purchasing power is also leading to the steady growth of the thrombin industry. This is because the thrombin plays a vital role in providing natural healing post-surgery. The developing healthcare infrastructure and the growing utilisation of thrombin in hospitals are among the factors fuelling the thrombin industry's growth. Further, the launch of efficient thrombin products with the optimal performance which can be administered to versatile patients owing to the growing research in this field is likely to catalyse the thrombin industry in the forecast period.
The approval of government organisations for the utilisation of thrombin to control and minimise blood loss during surgical procedures is leading to the incremental development of the industry. For instance: The Federal Drug Administration accepted the use of three thrombin-based products - recombinant thrombin, human thrombin, and bovine thrombin for haemostasis and minor bleeding control. In addition, the mergers and acquisitions done by healthcare companies to expand their product portfolio are also fuelling the market growth. In 2018, Baxter International, Inc. acquired RECOTHROM, manufactured using recombinant technology that offers hospitals an innovative solution to reduce intraoperative bleeding. Further, the investments in research and development activities in the use of thrombin by many biotechnology companies are also expected to invigorate the thrombin industry in the forecast period.
Acute intermittent porphyria - A case presentation :Sasikala R Umesh, Indian Journal of Continuing Nursing Education
Year : 2021 | Volume : 22 | Issue : 1 | Page : 16--21
Acute intermittent porphyria - A case presentation
Sasikala R Umesh
Associate Professor, College of Nursing, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India
Mrs. Sasikala R Umesh
Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is a rare autosomal dominant metabolic disorder affecting the production of haem, resulting from deficiency of porphobilinogen (PBG) deaminase. It is the most common form of acute porphyrias. The major symptom of an acute attack is abdominal pain, often accompanied by vomiting, hypertension and tachycardia. Attacks are most common in young women but rare before puberty or after menopause. Severe acute attacks may require hospitalisation. The most common triggers for acute attack are medications, weight loss, diet and surgery. Elevated urine PBG confirms the diagnosis of AIP. The treatment for acute porphyria includes administering intravenous haemin or glucose. This article outlines the disease process and its management. A case report is presented focusing on the nursing management of a patient with AIP using nursing process approach.
Umesh SR. Acute intermittent porphyria - A case presentation.Indian J Cont Nsg Edn 2021;22:16-21
Umesh SR. Acute intermittent porphyria - A case presentation. Indian J Cont Nsg Edn [serial online] 2021 [cited 2022 Jun 28 ];22:16-21
Available from: https://www.ijcne.org/text.asp?2021/22/1/16/320823
Porphyrias are inborn errors of metabolism caused by a deficiency of enzymes involved in haem synthesis. The haem synthesis pathway is a multistep process that involves a specific enzyme at every step. Each subunit of haemoglobin is a globular protein containing an embedded haem group that contains one iron atom, capable of binding one oxygen molecule. Porphyrins are precursors of haem, an essential component of haemoglobin.[1] A characteristic feature of porphyria is the excretion of porphyrins and porphyrinogens in urine.[2] Porphyrias are generally classified into two groups based on where the excess precursors originate: the "hepatic" and "erythropoietic" types.[3],[4] Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by deficiency of enzyme: hydroxymethylbilane synthase (HMBS), also known as porphobilinogen deaminase (PBGD), the third enzyme in the haem biosynthesis pathway. AIP is an acute, hepatic form of porphyria. Approximately 3%–5% of affected individuals, predominantly women, experience recurrent attacks which are more than 4 per year for a period of many years.[3] The course and severity of attacks are highly variable from one person to another. Rapid, accurate diagnosis is important. Delays in diagnosis may result in permanent neurological damage or death.
It is estimated that it affects 1 per 500–50,000 people.[3] AIP affects women to a greater degree than men, with a ratio of between 1.5 to 2:1. Attacks are rare before puberty. The typical age for the appearance of symptoms is between 18 and 40 years.[1] In Europe, the prevalence of symptomatic AIP is reported to be 5.9 per million people in the general population. The prevalence may be similar in most of the other countries in the world. AIP can occur in individuals of all ethnic backgrounds, although it may be less frequently reported in African-American individuals.[3],[4]
Porphyrias are classified as follows:[5]
Acute porphyrias: Porphyrias that cause neurologic, mental and abdominal symptoms.
AIP – the most common formVariegate porphyria (VP)Hereditary coproporphyria (HCP)Delta-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) dehydratase deficiency porphyria, which is extremely rare.
Cutaneous porphyrias: Porphyrias that cause skin symptoms, when the skin is exposed to sunlight.
Another classification system is based on where the excess precursors originate:
Hepatic porphyrias: Precursors originate primarily in the liverErythropoietic porphyrias: Precursors originate primarily in the bone marrow.
AIP is a multifactorial disorder. Several factors such as genetic and environmental factors in combination play a major role.[3]
AIP is caused by a deficiency of PBGD. The PBGD enzyme deficiency is caused by a mutation in the HMBS gene which is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. However, the majority of people with a mutation in this gene do not develop symptoms of AIP and additional factors – "triggers" are also required to cause symptomatic acute porphyria. Triggers include certain drugs (barbiturates, sulpha antibiotics, contraceptives and anti-seizure), excessive alcohol consumption, fasting or dieting, stress, infections or certain hormonal (endocrine) factors. The diagnosis of AIP gets delayed due to non-specific symptoms and similarities with other diseases.[1],[6]
In AIP, over 100 mutations have been identified on the long arm of chromosome 11 at the HMBS gene, which codes for the cytoplasmic enzyme PBGD.[5] Mutations in the HMBS gene lead to 50% deficient levels of PBGD in the body. This deficiency is noticeable in the acute attacks, where the haem pool in the liver gets used, and there is the induction of delta-ALA synthase 1 (ALAS1). This process leads to the accumulation of delta-ALA and porphobilinogen (PBG), which are the immediate precursors proximal to the HMBS [Figure 1]. In AIP, the neurologic damage occurs due to the accumulation of the porphyrin precursors, PBG and ALA. The AIP-associated neurological damage manifests as peripheral, autonomic neuropathies and psychiatric manifestations. The exact mechanism by which elevated levels of PBG and ALA lead to symptomatic disease is unclear as many patients with this genetic defect in spite of having a high porphyrin secretion remain asymptomatic.[1],[7]{Figure 1}
A patient may present with:[8]
Gastrointestinal symptomsAbdominal pain – It is the most common symptom and often the initial sign of an attackPain is usually severe, steady and widespread. Less often, it is cramping in naturePain may also occur in the neck, lower back, buttocks, arms and legs. Nausea, vomiting, constipation or diarrhoea and abdominal distension are also other symptoms that are often seen.Cardiovascular symptoms: Cardiac arrhythmias and hypertensionUrinary symptom: Urinary retentionNeurological symptoms: Acute peripheral neuropathies including numbness or tingling and burning sensations that usually begin in the feet and may progress to affect the arms and the trunk, eventually causing partial loss or impairment of motor function and life-threatening respiratory failureSeizures: Hyponatraemia may develop rapidly during an attack and contribute to the onset of seizures.Psychological symptoms: Irritability, depression, anxiety, insomnia, hallucinations, paranoia, disorientation and altered consciousness.[8]
Long-term complications include:[9]
Depression: Particularly anxiety is more common amongst individuals with AIPHepatocellular carcinoma: Individuals with AIP appear to be at increased risk of developing primary HCC, usually after age 54 yearsRenal dysfunction: Approximately 70% of individuals with recurrent attacks will develop progressive renal dysfunctionRecurrent acute attacks: Approximately 3%–8% of individuals with AIP, mainly women, experience repeated attacks.[9]
The acute attacks that characterise AIP are similar to those seen in three other forms of porphyria, specifically VP, HCP and ALA-dehydratase deficiency porphyria, and also a few other conditions.[9]
Tyrosinaemia type I is a rare autosomal recessive genetic metabolic disorder characterised by lack of the enzyme fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase, which is needed for the final breakdown of the amino acid tyrosine. Failure to properly break down tyrosine leads to abnormal accumulation of tyrosine and its metabolites in the liver, including a haem precursor ALA, potentially resulting in severe liver diseaseLead toxicity can cause symptoms that mimic acute porphyria. Lead inhibits several of the enzymes of haem biosynthesis, which can therefore result in an increase in urine coproporphyrin and 5-ALA excretion but not PBG excretionGuillain–Barré syndrome is a rare, rapidly progressive disorder causing muscle weakness, sometimes progressing to complete paralysis.[9]
Diagnosis is usually based on identification of characteristic symptoms, a detailed patient history, a thorough clinical evaluation and specialised tests.[6]
Elevated PBG confirms the diagnosis of AIP: A positive test is indicated with an increase of five times normalElevated ALA excretionPresence of dark or reddish urine.
Faecal studies: Porphyrin levels are normal in AIP but elevated in HCP and VPFamily testing: Molecular genetic testing to detect mutation in the HMBS gene.
Owing to the simulation of symptoms of AIP by several abdominal, metabolic and neuropsychiatric conditions, establishing a confirmed diagnosis forms the core of the management of AIP.[10],[11]
Avoidance of precipitants, especially drugs, requires extreme emphasis on preventing acute attackMedical management to decrease the number of porphyrins or porphyrin precursors produced in the liver
Administration of dextrose and high-carbohydrate diet: This is typically recommended
During acute attack (abdominal pain, vomiting, hyponatraemia and neurovesical attack), administration of 10% dextrose in 0.45% saline intravenously should be initiated immediately to inhibit hepatic ALAS1 transcriptionIf the symptoms are not acute, a trial of a high carbohydrate diet (carbohydrate intake should be 55%–60% of total energy intake) for 48 h before starting specific treatment is recommended.
Haemin (panhaematin and haem arginate) is the drug of choice
Intravenous haem therapy should be administered without delay in severe acute attacks and maintained for 4 days (3–4 mg/kg of haem/day). It replenishes the hepatocyte haem pool and downregulates ALAS1, resulting in reduced production of porphyrin precursors and corresponding improvement in symptoms.
Cimetidine: It is effective for acute porphyric crisis and for long-term management.
Recommended oral dosage is 800 mg/day. Cimetidine has a role in prophylaxis of acute episodes by maintaining a baseline suppression of ALA synthase activity. Cimetidine should be reserved for use only after standard treatment modalities have failed.
Pain: It is severe and often requires the use of opiatesNausea: It can be severe. Nausea and vomiting are controllable with phenothiazine drugs and ondansetron. These symptoms usually start lessening in 72–96 hGabapentin: In cases where seizure or neuropathy is presentSeizures: Barbiturates must be avoided. Benzodiazepines are safe, when used in conjunction with gabapentinTachycardia and hypertension: Preferred medications are beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockersDepression: This symptom is common, especially with repeated attacks. Treating the offending symptoms and if needed the judicious use of antidepressants are recommended.
Hormone administration: Hormonal fluctuations that contribute to cyclical attacks in women have been treated with oral contraceptives and gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues such as leuprolideFluid and electrolyte replacement: Hyponatraemia should be corrected with intravenous saline solutionsLiver transplantation: Individuals with severe disease who have failed to respond to other treatment options may need to undergo liver transplantation.[10],[11] A liver transplant in individuals with AIP is an option of last resort.
Ms. A, a 25-year-old unmarried woman, was apparently well till 7 years ago. She was hospitalised with a history of 8–9 episodes of vomiting per day (post-prandial, non-bilious and non-bloody) and constipation for the past 7 years, associated with a diffuse non-radiating abdominal pain with no relieving or aggravating factors. She also had generalised weakness in the lower limb with inability to stand or walk and wobbling of knees for 10 days. On admission, she was conscious and well oriented. Physical examination revealed a heart rate of 64/mt, blood pressure (BP) of 100/70 mmHg and a respiratory rate of 20/mt. The abdomen was soft, but a diffuse tenderness was present without any organomegaly or free fluid. Mild motor weakness (Grade 4) in bilateral hips and knees has been elicited. Gastroscopy and intestinal biopsy showed mild chronic active duodenitis and gastritis. Gastric emptying study showed significant delayed gastric emptying (274 mts). During her stay in the hospital, she experienced acute abdominal pain and worsening of motor deficits. Urine PBG was elevated in all three samples (1200 mg/24 h urine collection). Initially, she was started on sucrose aqua gel, three times a day injection dextrose 50%100 mL IV q6 h and injection DNS q4 h. She was given sugar and glucose water as tolerated. She was offered easily digestible high carbohydrate diet. Later, she was administered injection haemin 4 mg/kg/day (200 mg/day) for 4 days as intravenous infusion over 30 min each. After the treatment, her motor power improved and uroporphobilinogen value came within normal limits. She was explained about possible good prognosis with early detection and management, especially if acute attacks are identified and managed early and further attacks are prevented.
Acute abdominal pain, related to dysfunction of peripheral nervous system, secondary to elevated PBG.
Abdominal pain is minimised as evidenced by verbalisation of reduction in pain <2 in the Numerical Rating Scale.
Assessed the characteristics of pain such as site, frequency, intensity, aggravating and relieving factorsOffered comfortable position with comfort devicesAdministered tablet paracetamol 1 g as neededOffered emotional support.
The pain was minimised as evidenced by reduction in pain score to < 2/10 in the Numerical Rating Scale. She expressed her increased comfort level.
Imbalanced nutrition less than body requirement related to vomiting and abdominal pain secondary to delayed gastric emptying.
Nutritional status is improved as evidenced by no reduction in her weight, normal serum glucose level and improved well-being.
Assessed the nutritional status
Body mass index (BMI) was checked (on admission 17 kg/m2, 3 weeks later remained as 17 kg/m2)Nutritionist consultation was obtainedProvided her with easily digestible high calorie predominantly carbohydrate diet according to her tolerance, in the form of liquid (glucose water and sugar water) followed by soft diet like bread, porridge, banana and milkshakesFrequent small meals were encouragedEnsured adequate oral hygieneAdministered injection ondansetron 8 mg as needed, tablet pantoprazole 40 mg, OD and tablet itopride 50 mg, TIDAdministered tablet sucrose aqua ge1, TID and injection dextrose 50% 100 mL IV q6 hAdministered injection dextrose normal saline one pint every 4 h during acute phaseAdministered injection haemin 1 amp – 200 mg/day reconstituted in 100 ml normal saline over 30 mts, followed by 100 ml normal saline over 30 min for 4 daysStrict intake and output was maintained.
There was no decline in BMI during her hospitalisation. Her oral intake and tolerance improved. The blood sugar values remained within normal limits.
Risk for fluid volume and electrolyte deficit related to vomiting secondary to delayed gastric emptying.
Normal fluid volume and electrolyte levels are maintained as evidenced by systolic BP ≥90 mmHg, HR 60–100 beats/min, intake and output cumulative balance and electrolyte values within normal range.
Monitored vital signsMonitored intake and urine outputAssessed the vomitus for colour, content and quantityAdministered injection ondansetron 8 mg as needed, tablet pantoprazole 40 mg, OD and tablet itopride 50 mg, TIDEnsured intake of glucose and sugar water at small volume frequentlyAdministered injection DNS one pint every 4 h.
During acute phase Ms. A was given parenteral fluid and later oral glucose and sugar water. She did not develop fluid volume deficit. Her electrolyte values were within normal limits.
Impaired physical mobility related to generalised weakness and wobbling of knees secondary to neurotoxic effect.
Physical mobility is achieved as evidenced by independence in walking and performing daily activities of living.
Assessed her mobility statusShe was assisted for ambulationShe was helped to take bath and to meet other toilet needsEnsured specific treatment measures (specifically haemin therapy) are carried out on time as ordered.
Ms. A was dependent on her activities of daily needs in the beginning of her hospitalisation. After completion of haemin therapy, improvement was noted in her motor power. She was independent, and she was walking without assistance.
Constipation related to vomiting and poor food intake secondary to delayed gastric emptying.
Normal elimination pattern is maintained as evidenced by regular bowel movement.
Assessed the bowel movementAdministered stool softener syrup cremaffin as per orderAssisted in ambulationAdministered glycerin enema when necessary.
Ms. A had constipation, and she was administered syrup cremaffin 15 ml hsod and glycerin enema prn till her discharge.
Risk for ineffective coping individual and family related to the nature of disease.
Effective coping is enhanced as evidenced by following the given instructions and adhering to the treatment and positive attitude towards treatment.
Developed good rapportAllowed to ventilate their feelingsExercised active listening skillExplained the nature of disease and managementCleared their doubtsExercised non-judgmental attitudeProvided spiritual support and counsellingOrganised consultation with psychiatrist.
Ms. A and their family members were depressed at the time of admission since Ms. A was not diagnosed at the earliest. After the confirmatory diagnosis, treatment and adequate support and counselling their coping improved.
Deficient knowledge regarding the disease condition, prognosis and treatment
Learning needs are met as evidenced by verbalisation of understanding about the condition, prognosis, treatment plans and cooperation with the therapy and care provided.
Assessed the level of knowledgeFacilitated a meet with her treating physician for a detailed explanation regarding the disease condition, treatment plans and prognosisHealth teaching was given on the following aspects: High carbohydrate diet, avoiding triggers, especially harmful medications and lifestyle factors such as drinking alcohol, smoking and use of marijuana, prevention of infection, management of acute attack, regular check-up and potential complications.
Ms. A and her family members demonstrated confidence towards disease process and care.
AIP is one of the four types of porphyrias that presents as an acute attack. 90% of the individuals are asymptomatic, while an estimated 5% of affected individuals experience repeated attacks. Affected individuals usually recover from an attack within days. However, if an acute attack is not diagnosed and treated promptly, recovery can take much longer, weeks to months. Haemin is the treatment of choice during an acute attack. Haemin is not a curative treatment but can shorten attacks and reduce the intensity of an attack. Patients and family members who have inherited AIP should be counselled on how to limit their risk of any future acute attacks.
1 Gonzalez-Mosquera LF, Sonthalia S. Acute intermittent porphyria. In: StatPearls. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2021. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK547665/. [Last updated on 2020 May 23].
2 Kumari A. Sweet Biochemistry: Remembering Structures, Cycles, and Pathways by Mnemonics. Haryana, India: Academic Press; 2017.
3 Anderson KE. Acute Intermittent Porphyria. NORD Guide to Rare Disorders; 2020. Available from: https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/acute-intermittent-porphyria/. [Last accessed on 2020 Apr 10].
4 Rowland LP. Acute intermittent porphyria. In: Merritt's Neurology. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2010. p. 661-4.
5 Rudnick SR. Acute Intermittent Porphyria Wake Forest University School of Medicine; 2018. Available from: http://generalpathology.blogspot.com/2018/11/acute-intermittent-porphyria-aip.html. [Last accessed on 2018 Apr 10].
6 Whatley SD, Badminton MN. Acute Intermittent Porphyria; 2005 Sep 27. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1193/. [Last accessed on 2005 Apr 10; Last updated on 2019 Dec 05].
7 Hemmings HC, Egan TD. Pharmacology and Physiology for Anesthesia E-Book: Foundations and Clinical Application. Philadelphia: Elsevier Health Sciences; 2012.
8 Besur S, Schmeltzer P, Bonkovsky HL. Acute porphyrias. J Emerg Med 2015;49:305-12.
9 Whatley SD, Badminton MN. Acute Intermittent Porphyria; 2005 Sep 27. Available from: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20301372/. [Last accessed on 2020 Apr 10; Last updated on 2019 Dec 05].
10 DeLoughery TG. Acute Intermittent Porphyria & Management: Approach; 2018. Available from: https://emedicine.medscape.com/article/205220-treatment. [Last accessed on 2018 Apr 10].
11 Anderson KE, Bloomer JR, Bonkovsky HL, Kushner JP, Pierach CA, Pimstone NR, et al. Recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of the acute porphyrias. Ann Intern Med 2005;142:439-50.
Help On The Struggle With Cancer-Alternatives to chemotherapy
Article by-Myrick Fenger
Focus on having a healthy diet during your cancer treatment. Eating better will give you more energy for everything that you are going through. It will also help you feel less stressed because your body will have the fuel it needs for the day. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/01/health/leukemia-immunotherapy-kymriah.html has shown that eating well may also extend your life.
Eating HERBAL CURE FOR CANCER in grapes can help you to prevent certain types of cancer. The polyphenols and resveratrol contained in grapes can help prevent the damage of cells and also the growth of cancer. You can receive the benefits of grapes by eating them whole or drinking juice, but avoid the concentrated stuff with added sugar.
Alternative Treatments For Cancer Quizlet that acne is a common side effect of chemotherapy. Many people do not realize this and chalk their acne up to hormones. There are many over-the-counter acne treatments that are effective for you skin. If your acne is very bad, your doctor may be able to prescribe a stronger medication.
9 months post kidney transplant...side e... - Kidney Transplant
Hi all, I am 9 months post kidney transplant. My husband was my living donor and the kidney is doing awesome! However, this past month and a half have been a rough patch. Anyone experiencing all kinds of side effects from Prograf? I was sleeping pretty well, but since February I can't sleep, I have burning chest pains from time to time and just always feel blah. I felt so much better in January. The Feb came and half my family had the flu. I had symptoms and tested negative but they put me on Tamiflu anyway. Every since then I feel like I have felt every single side effect you can feel. My doctor wants to wait until I'm at least a year out before changing to other meds related to prograf. Anyone with experience with this? I'm also on Cellcept which doesn't seem to bother me as much.
What side effect are you having? I had hair loss on and off for the first year.
Jenny0604 in reply to Thankujacob
I started the hair loss back in Dec when I was 6 months post. I am on Biotin for that, but not sure it is working, but I take it anyway. I think I've gotten used to that. I'm not sleeping very well lately, which I was sleeping ok up until Feb. I'm thinking it may be stress that's causing me to become more sensitive to the side effects lately. Sometimes I have a burning chest pain, which I believe may be heartburn(acid reflux), which I believe is a side effect of the prograf. I don't know. I just don't feel myself like I did before February but all my labs are practically perfect and my heart has been checked several times and all good there. I was actually training for an 8k working my way up to my first half marathon next year. Maybe it's me. I've heard several people mention they have developed depression from the meds. I'm not sure if that pertains to me at this time, but something I will look into.
Maybe I'm just not used to it all yet. I'm sure once more time passes I will not notice them at all.
ThankujacobNKF Ambassador in reply to Jenny0604
This is my second transplant. My first lasted 20 years. With my first I had major heartburn as well. In my opinion the blah or depressed feeling is just getting used to your new body and it is stressful wondering and worrying if everything is ok. My doctor prescribed zinc for the hair loss and it worked very well. As long as your doing everything your supposed to and labs are good everything should be fine. Give your body and mind time to heel. Everything should be just fine.
Thank you so much for saying that. I needed to hear that. I guess I keep thinking since I'm close to a year I should be all healed and feeling good (which I am getting there, I do realize that). You are right. I'm constantly wondering and worrying about every little thing I feel. Your words are very comforting, more than you know. Sometimes I think the mental part of all of this is more challenging.
How wonderful your first kidney lasted so long! It's very inspiring to hear. I wish you all the best with your current kidney. And thank you again for your comforting words. It truly is just what I needed to hear at this time.
I'm glad my experiences were of help
Even though a kidney transplant is a wonderful gift, it is a major life stressor. So periods of depression would be common. Caring for your new kidney is a lot of work. I am the donor, my husband the recipient. He has had his share of side effects and has changed meds. I think all are powerful immunosuppressants which have their share of side effects. You should be able to get something for acid reflux. Let your doc know how much you are suffering, don't underplay your distress. Prayers.
Hi! I am only about 4.5 months out from my transplant. I am on Prograf and CallCept as well as a low dose prednisone (5 mg). I haven't noticed many side effects (thankfully) other than hand tremors occasionally, and hair loss started this month all of a sudden. I am curious too, what other side effects you're having just to be aware myself. I have not had any sort of chest pains and haven't felt blah like you're saying, except for a minor rejection episode I had 3 weeks after transplant.
Jenny0604 in reply to Lpgath
Hi! Congratulations on your transplant!
I also have hair loss, too. I am on Biotin to help with that but not sure it's really working. I, too, also have some tremors, but not that bad. My heart has been checked out and all is good there so I think it might be heartburn (acid reflux), which I believe is also a side effect of the prograf. I'm on the same dose of prednisone as you are, too. I also have feelings that mimic anxiety when my meds peak. Which has been hard because I have anxiety to begin with so I have to mentally separate the two. LOL That's gotten better though. I find when I exercise, like a hard walk or a run I don't feel them as much. I also have a hard time sleeping this past month. I was feeling great in January, then we had a very stressful month in Feb. so it may be more stress than the meds and the stress may just increase the awareness of the side effects.
Sorry to hear about your short rejection episode. Hope all that is taken care of and you are feeling great!
Also, don't let my experience make you feel different. Everyone experiences this process differently. You may never feel anything that I do. Everyone has different medical issues and backgrounds that follow us into our transplant journeys that can effect things.
Happy you are feeling well!
Lpgath in reply to Jenny0604
Thank you! Congrats to you as well. I have had a long journey but thankfully was able to avoid dialysis before transplant. I am 36 and had CKD since I was 11. My donor was my sister's best friend I have known for 25 years. My sister was also a perfect match but they found kidney stones during her evaluation she didn't even know she had. 🤷🏻‍♀️
I go for my monthly appt tomorrow and will be mentioning the hair loss as it's gotten worse over the month. Thankfully my hair is pretty thick to begin with. My rejection episode has been taken care of and I have been feeling great! Thankfully! As far as the heartburn, I am on Zantac (ranitidine) twice daily as the regimen they put me on. Maybe that is an option if they don't already have you on something like that? Hope things improve for you!
Thank you! I was able to avoid dialysis, too! I am 44 years old and my donor was my husband. Crazy I know. I have a hereditary kidney disease that most of my family on my mother's side has, so receiving a kidney from them wasn't an option, obviously. My kidney is working perfectly so far. I think sometimes my mind gets in my way and that's what I'm working on now. I was on Protonix but my transplant team didn't want me on that long term. I actually have an appointment with my primary care doctor to see a specialist to get on the right medication needed.
As far as hair loss, mine seems to not be getting worse since it started in December but staying the same. I, too have lots of hair so I just cut it a little different with layers. Most people say that can't tell, but I know it's much thinner. Speaking with another person on here, she takes Zinc prescribed by her doctor for hair loss and says it works really well. I'm going to inquire about that at my next check up. The Biotin (order by my doctor to take) is over-the-counter and may work well for some but it doesn't seem to make a difference for me.
Best of luck at your monthly appointment! And again, congratulations!
nosillap in reply to Lpgath
Hi. I am 4 years out. I started hair loss by 5 months out. The doctors didn't know why. Now it is so bad that I wear wigs. But so much easier than dialysis. I can live w/o hair better than living w/o a kidney. I too am taking prograf & cellcept. Hope yours comes back!
I had my transplant 5 months ago. The transplant was perfect from the beginning. However I have and am experiencing side effects that are most troubling for me. One side effect that scared me to death was losing my hair ! The nurse on my transplant team said it was due to the Tacro and it may not be corrected once I was off Tacro. I decided to go to a dermatologist connected to the hospital.( I had other issues with the sudden appearance of stretch marks on my skin and a growing rash on my body) The good news was that my hair loss was due to the surgery and not the meds. It will correct itself, all people undergoing major surgery experience this and it usually begins AROUND 3-5 months after surgery.
Get your doctor to switch from prograf to envarsus. Envarsus is prograf but a slow release form. It is mostly given to patients who cannot tolerate the side effects of prograf. When my doctor switched me my hair is no longer falling out and my white cell count has gone from 2.4 to 5.1 and it has only been 2 weeks.
Jenny0604 in reply to kidneytransplan
Thank you. My doctor actually mentioned that at my last appointment. He wanted to wait until I was just about a year out before changing it. I see him in 2 weeks and will inquire again. Thanks for the info. Good to know.
TeamO in reply to Jenny0604
Hi! I am 46 years old and had a living donor from my brother. No dialysis pre-transplant. Other than my kidney, I am in great physical shape. I am now 17 months post-transplant. All is going well except a nagging BK (completed IVIg treatment but the BK is still detectable but <500.)
The other issue is major hair loss. Prior to transplant I had extremely think, long hair. Since about the 5-6 month mark, my hair has completely changed. Falling out and very thin strands. My doctor approved for me to take Biotin which has not seemed to help (I have been taking it since month 8). I do have new growth, but it is very thin.
I will inquire about Zinc and eventually may inquire about Envarsus. My kidney health means more than my hair, but I can't believe the drastic change. Thanks for talking about this and for the suggestions!
marcycNKF Peer Mentor in reply to TeamO
Perhaps you can discuss this with your doc. Sometimes they can change your anti rejection meds. Hair loss is fairly a common side effect. My husband was very upset about hair loss and skin discoloration with his first med.
TeamO in reply to marcyc
Yes - we have been taking about it, but resolving the BK is priority over Prograf side effects for now. Once that is squared away, we will tackle the hair. Having this info is helpful. Thanks so much for your response! 😊
My husband had low level BK for a couple of months, resolved on its own. Best of luck and prayers for good health going forward! I am a RN and living donor.
Thank you for being a donor! You guys are amazing!
kidneytransplan in reply to marcyc
Drdetroit in reply to kidneytransplan
I am almost 7 yrs post transplant. I was told by UPMC TRANSPLANT that 80% of people have it & I was one of the 20% that did not have it. My deceased donor had it. After 6 yrs, it reappeared. The transplant doctor said it was rare to come back after 6 yrs. Ask your transplant team to explain the BK virus to you. I had to reduce my meds to let my immune system eradicate it.
Tula6 in reply to TeamO
I have the BK virus as well. My living donor transplant was March, 2018. Not detected for months post tx, then 6 or so months out, 1000, then 1600 then 32,800 the next week.
Down now to 1000, won't check until 1 month out as they lowered my envarsus, micropheneolate, still and will always be in 5 mg prednisone.
I'm also noticing a significant amount of hair loss. This is so disturbing. Doctor put me on zinc. I'm thinking about adding Biotin too.
Once you loose the hair, is there a chance of it growing back?
More important, anyone have information on the dreaded BK virus?
Thank you for any information on any of the above,
Penny-123
I had a lung transplant in 2011 I take Cellcept and Prograf also one of the things I've seen and experienced myself as well is the anti rejection medications cause spot of acid reflux they usually recommend patients to get the acid reflux surgery ( nissen fundiplucation ) that have this problem. It is very common,might want to mention it to your coordinator and find out more info about it.hope this helps good luck.feel better soon 🙏
I have trouble sleeping too and itch. Doctor prescribed Benadryl
Hi!! I felt great for nearly 4 months. Then I couldn't sleep more than an hour. The problem is that I cannot fall asleep - at all ☹️ I feel as if electricity is running through my body. I'm not sure if it is the Prograf, the prednisone, or the Valcyte. So frustrating.
less the effects. Just wondering if anyone has felt these types of side effects. I'm on prograf,...
out here! I am 4 months post kidney transplant. My wonderful husband was my donor and we are both...
If you are suffering from Achilles tendonitis, you may be able to treat the condition at home through rest, ice and over-the-counter pain medication. If these methods are ineffective, your doctor may recommend orthotics, a walking boot, crutches or surgery for more severe cases
A sprain is a stretching or tearing of one or more ligaments, the tough fibrous bands that hold the ankle bones in place. Sprains are divided into categories based on the severity of the injury. The ankle may be unstable or unable to hold weight. Sprained ankles should be examined by a doctor to rule out the possibility of a bone fracture or other damage. Professional diagnosis and care will also ensure that the joint heals properly, limiting the chance of further injury.
Arthritis is inflammation of one or more of your joints. The main symptoms of arthritis are joint pain and stiffness, which typically worsen with age. The most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Treatments vary depending on the type of arthritis.
A bunion is a bony bump that forms on the joint at the base of your big toe. It forms when your big toe pushes against your next toe, the joint of the 1sttoe may appear to be enlarged. The skin over the bunion might be red and sore. Wearing tight, narrow shoes might cause bunions or make them worse. Bunions also can develop as a result of an inherited structural defect. Smaller bunions (bunionettes) can develop on the joint of your little toe.
Critical Care Registered Nurse Days job with NYU Langone Health | 2037791
Critical Care Registered Nurse Days
We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Registered Nurse on our Critical Care Unit. This unit provides an exciting opportunity for RN's who are self-motivated, energetic, compassionate and are looking for new challenges in a supportive, trans disciplinary environment. The goal on our Medical/Surgical Unit is to provide world class patient family centered care that includes high quality, holistic, compassionate evidence based nursing care that is built upon the knowledge and expertise of the interdisciplinary team. To qualify you must have a Bachelor's degree in Nursing, a current New York State RN license, and current BLS certification with the American Heart Association. Qualified candidates must be able to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization.
