Psychology term paper sample - www.stellapool.com
Developmental Psychology Term Paper Ideas: Discovering Current Problems Our modern world and all the changes we face have created a whole host of new problems in terms of children's development. We psychology term paper sample try to make sure all writers working for us are professionals, so when you purchase custom-written papers, they are of high quality and non-plagiarized Psychological Research – Psychology as Science term papers analyze the value of psychology through the lens of scientific criteria. degree. The jobs they addressed passionately has kids have become part of history and ambitious memories Department of Psychology, Boston College, McGuinn Hall, Room 512, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467. Term call center manager resume examples papers on Abnormal Psychology. Students of psychology are usually asked to prepare psychology term papers in their semesters. Also check our tips on how to write a research paper, see the lists of psychology research paper topics, and browse research paper examples Example Term Paper Format ECON 460 November 19, 2011 Abstract The following paper is an example of the appropriate stlyle, layout and format for an term paper or essay in an economics course. This means that religion has been a major influence in the history of mankind, and its influence.
Work with your summary and the main points of the article. It is the study of relationships between individuals amongst the community to which they belong The paper "Psychosocial Work-Related Stress" is a good example of a term paper on psychology. When people think of psychology, mostly they think about mind reading, behavioral manipulation, neuroscience or anything somewhat relevant but yet farfetched. The purpose of the term paper proposal is to outline the structure of the future term paper, providing the key elements that will support the research The Term Paper on "How Can Modern Behavioural Therapies Help a Client Accept Uncertainty About Their Future?" Current CBT practice originated in psychology term paper sample the 50s and 60s with Ellis, Lazarus (MultiModal Therapy) and Beck, building upon the earlier work unique college essays of the Behaviourist movement This sample Community Psychology Research Paper is published for educational and informational purposes only. Psychology of Religion (Term Paper Sample) Instructions: What is meant by "Psychology of Religion".Discuss. Here you will find all those essential steps which you need to understand about writing your psychology term papers Intro to Psychology Research Papers Research papers on an introduction to psychology delve into the class that teaches students about the mind, human behavior, and the underlying motivations behind it all. There are a few psychology papers which you might come across in your studies. Sampling is the process of selecting a representative group from the population under study. Psychology Term Paper Example That's why we have Psychology Term Paper Example entry tests for all applicants who want to work for Psychology Term Paper Example us. Sample Term Paper. Research Haven's database of term paper and essay topics is the home to close to 100,000 sample papers for you to choose from This page contains several sample papers formatted in seventh edition APA Style.
The psychology term paper college essay writing lesson commonly consists of psychology term paper sample 8 to 10 pages or maximum 3500 word.
The people who take part are referred psychology term paper sample to as "participants" Sample Abstract Running on Empty 2 Abstract This study examined the effects of short-term food deprivation on two cognitive abilities—concentration and perseverance.
The following two sample papers were published in annotated format in the Publication Manual and are provided here for your ease of reference. psychology term paper sample
Psychology research paper examples below attempt psychology term paper sample to capture psychology's vast and evolving nature.
Jane Whitehead | Academy of Research and Improvement
Jane.Whitehead@solent.nhs.uk
023 8103 1570
I work as a Clinical Trials and Research Assistant in Southampton – I primarily work within the Sexual Health Department but I will also help on trials in other areas if necessary.
It is my responsibility to work on Clinical Trials within the Sexual Health Department. I am responsible for ensuring the smooth running of our trials within the department and assisting the Clinical Research lead Nurse. I practice Clinical and Administration duties. This includes checking for suitability and recruiting participants, as well as taking blood, height and measurements and general clinical care of the participants. It also involves explaining the trial set up to patients and taking informed consent. When I am not in clinic I am ensuring that the Administration is up to date and running smoothly for us and the study teams.
I have a largely administrative background and spent a few years working as a team leader and co-ordinator within the HR department for the NHS Trust. My love for the clinical aspect of my role started through working for NHS Direct as a Health Information and Medicines advisor for 7 years. It gave me the interest to want to take it further and Research & Improvement seemed the obvious answer.
I enjoy working in Research very much and I love everything that it stands for. Sexual Health Research is such an interesting and diverse department to work in and I learn something new every day. I love working as a team and meeting new patients daily. I love being part of the research team; we have a team that is full of experience from all different areas. The knowledge and skills our team have is invaluable and I love being part of that.
Outside of work I am a busy mum and wife, I have boys who play football so I am very often stood on the side-line of a football pitch in all weathers somewhere in the country, being a dedicated soccer mum. I love to run and I like to participate in occasional 10k and half marathon races. I enjoy socialising with my family and friends and I am often out having fun and a few drinks (when I can).
Safetxt – A randomised controlled trial of an intervention delivered by mobile phone messaging to reduce sexually transmitted infections (STI) by increasing sexual health behaviours in young people.
PRECISE – A point of care antimicrobial resistance test for Neisseria gonorrhoea and Mycoplasma genitalium infection – ensuring accurate therapy and antibiotic stewardship in sexual health medicine.
Potentially preventable hospitalisations in community mental health | Equally Well
Potentially preventable hospitalisations for physical health conditions in community mental health service users: a population-wide linkage studyEmma Bailey2021-08-19T10:05:20+00:00
Abstract (taken from the resource)
Aims. Mental health (MH) service users have increased prevalence of chronic physical conditions such as cardio-respiratory diseases and diabetes. Potentially Preventable Hospitalisations (PPH) for physical health conditions are an indicator of health service access, integration and effectiveness, and are elevated in long term studies of people with MH conditions. We aimed to examine whether PPH rates were elevated in MH service users over a 12-month follow-up period more suitable for routine health indicator reporting. We also examined whether MH service users had increased PPH rates at a younger age, potentially reflecting the younger onset of chronic physical conditions.
Methods. A population-wide data linkage in New South Wales (NSW), Australia, population 7.8 million. PPH rates in 178 009 people using community MH services in 2016–2017 were compared to population rates. Primary outcomes were crude and age- and disadvantagestandardised annual PPH episode rate (episodes per 100 000 population), PPH day rate (hospital days per 100 000) and adjusted incidence rate ratios (AIRR).
Results. MH service users had higher rates of PPH admission (AIRR 3.6, 95% CI 3.5–3.6) and a larger number of hospital days (AIRR 5.2, 95% CI 5.2–5.3) than other NSW residents due to increased likelihood of admission, more admissions per person and longer length of stay. Increases were greatest for vaccine-preventable conditions (AIRR 4.7, 95% CI 4.5–5.0), and chronic conditions (AIRR 3.7, 95% CI 3.6–3.7). The highest number of admissions and relative risks were for respiratory and metabolic conditions, including chronic obstructive airways disease (AIRR 5.8, 95% CI 5.5–6.0) and diabetic complications (AIRR 5.4, 95% CI 5.1–5.8). One-quarter of excess potentially preventable bed days in MH service users were due to vaccine-related conditions, including vaccine-preventable respiratory illness. Age-related increases in risk occurred earlier in MH service users, particularly for chronic and vaccine preventable conditions. PPH rates in MH service users aged 20–29 were similar to population rates of people aged 60 and over. These substantial differences were not explained by socioeconomic disadvantage.
Conclusions. PPHs for physical health conditions are substantially increased in people with MH conditions. Short term (12-month) PPH rates may be a useful lead indicator of increased physical morbidity and less accessible, integrated or effective health care. High hospitalisation rates for vaccine-preventable respiratory infections and hepatitis underline the importance of vaccination in MH service users and suggests potential benefits of prioritising this group for COVID-19 vaccination.
Shared with us by Sarah Grant. To read the full study please click here
Updated guide for people living with severe mental illness and their carers on what to expect from the COVID-19 vaccination programme
MLA Executive Council | Daniel Powell
Daniel Powell. Grad. student English, Univ. of Victoria. MA, Univ. of Victoria. Current appointment: Early Stage Researcher and Marie Skłowdowska-Curie Fellow, Digital Scholarly Editions Initial Training Network, King's Coll. London. Institutional service: grad. student conference planning comm., 2010; ch., Academic and Professional Comm., English Grad. Students' Soc. (EGSS), 2011–12; pres., EGSS, 2013–14; PhD representative, Dept. of English, 2013–14; Grad. Representative Council, Grad. Students' Soc., 2013–14. Mellon fellowship, THATCamp, 2011; NEH travel grant, 2012; Digital Humanities Winter Inst. scholarship (Maryland Inst. for Technology in the Humanities), 2013; NEH stipend, Folger Shakespeare Library, 2013. Mairi Riddel Memorial Book Prize (for best seminar essay), Dept. of English, Univ. of Victoria, 2012. Humanities, Arts, Science, and Technology Alliance and Collaboratory scholar, 2011– ; steering comm., Advanced Research Consortium, Texas A&M Univ., 2013– ; steering comm., Renaissance Knowledge Network, Iter: Gateway to the Middle Ages and Renaissance, 2014– . Renaissance Soc. of America, Assn. for Computers and the Humanities, Canadian Soc. for Digital Humanities, Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO). MLA activities: Comm. on Information Technology, 2014–17. Coed.,Graduate Training in the 21st Century, 2014– ; ed. asst. (for digital publication), Early Theatre, 2012–15. Invited lectures: Univ. of Western Sydney, Mar. 2014; Natl. Univ. of Ireland, Galway, Nov. 2014. Conference presentations: Canadian Soc. for Digital Humanities, 2012; Digital Humanities Summer Inst. Colloquium (Univ. of Victoria), 2012; Pacific Northwest Renaissance Soc., 2012; Rocky Mountain MLA, 2013; MLA, 2014; ADHO, 2015. Publications include coed., A Social Edition of the Devonshire MS (BL Add 17,492) (2015); contrib., Literary Studies in the Digital Age: A Methodological Primer (2012), Teaching and Learning Multimodal Communications: A Collaborative Handbook (2013); articles in Scholarly and Research Communication, Digital Studies / Le champ numérique, Religion and Literature.
There’s a known increased risk of heart disease among people with PsA. Here’s what experts who specialize in cardio-rheumatology want you to know about it.
It can take a lot to manage psoriatic arthritis (PsA), an inflammatory disease of the joints that tends to occur in people with psoriasis, an inflammatory disease that affects the skin. (Psoriatic arthritis can sometimes affect people without psoriasis, however.)
Because you may be spending your time and energy managing the daily symptoms of PsA, such as joint stiffness, pain, and swelling, as well as fatigue, you may not always think about how the disease impacts other systems of your body — notably your heart. Your doctor might not be talking to you about it either, and that’s why it’s time to get the link between psoriatic arthritis and cardiovascular risk on your radar.
Rekha Mankad, MD, a cardiologist with the Cardio-Rheumatology Clinic at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, points out that much of the existing research on the connection between rheumatological diseases and heart disease has been done in the rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis population, although PsA-specific evidence is starting to mount.
Researchers discovered that having psoriatic arthritis means that your risk of cardiovascular disease is as much as 43 percent higher than that of people without PsA, according to a 2016 study in the journal Arthritis Care & Research that looked at the combined data on 32,973 patients with psoriatic arthritis from 11 studies.
The findings, the researchers wrote, support the idea that psoriatic arthritis is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
Researchers also found that certain symptoms of PsA — namely, sacroiliitis, or inflammation of the sacroiliac joints that connect the spine and pelvis — can increase the chance of a person with PsA having a cardiovascular event. A study published in the journal Arthritis Research and Therapy found that people with psoriatic arthritis who had inflammation of the sacroiliac joints had more aortic inflammation (aortitis) that those without the symptom. Aortitis is a precursor to cardiovascular disease.
The Link Between PsA and Heart Disease
Both PsA and heart disease are inflammatory conditions. Inflammation from the immune system’s overactivity triggers a body-wide response that affects not just the joints and skin, but also the cardiovascular system.
‘Traditional’ heart disease risk factors
In addition to underlying inflammation, people with psoriatic arthritis also tend to be more likely to have other known heart disease risk factors, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes.
A 2019 study in the journal Clinical Rheumatology of more than 3,000 participants found that people with PsA are more likely to have obesity, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes. The majority of these heart disease risk factors are more prevalent in people with PsA than in those with RA or psoriasis alone.
One 2015 study in the Journal of Rheumatology found that metabolic syndrome — a group of cardiovascular disease risk factors that often “travel” together — was highly prevalent in people with PsA. Out of 283 people with psoriatic arthritis, 44 percent had metabolic syndrome, which means people have at least three of five criteria:
High blood pressure
High blood sugar
High triglyceride levels
High cholesterol levels
Waist circumference greater than 40 inches in men and greater than 35 inches women
People with more severe psoriatic arthritis (as well as people who smoked) were more likely to have metabolic syndrome.
Blood vessel damage
“To develop heart disease, a couple things have to happen: You need to have high cholesterol, but you also need to have damage to the endothelium, which are the cells lining blood vessels,” says Michael S. Garshick, MD, the director of the Cardio-Rheumatology Program at NYU Langone Health in New York City.
One study in the journal Arthritis and Rheumatism showed endothelial cell dysfunction in people with PsA, despite their not having a previous diagnosis of coronary artery disease nor cardiovascular risk factors. This blood vessel damage plays a key role in atherosclerosis, in which fats and cholesterol clog the blood vessels, which reduces blood flow and contributes to the development of heart attack or stroke.
Atherosclerosis (clogged arteries)
Studies have found higher incidence of plaque buildup in the carotid arteries (the major blood vessels in the neck that supply blood to the brain) in people with psoriasis and PsA compared to healthy adults. And psoriatic arthritis patients may have a greater risk than those with only psoriasis.
In fact, a 2013 study in the journal Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases found that psoriatic arthritis patients have more severe “subclinical” (meaning, without symptoms) atherosclerosis than people with skin psoriasis alone. Worse plaque was linked with people who had a longer duration of PsA, worse skin disease, and higher inflammatory markers.
High cholesterol
Research also shows that patients with psoriasis are more likely to have high cholesterol, particularly those with severe disease. And the risk appears to go both ways. Other evidence has found that high cholesterol is associated with a 68 percent increased risk of PsA. One reason is that artery-damaging inflammation makes it more likely for cholesterol deposits to develop.
Other metabolic abnormalities
In addition to cholesterol, other types of fats and metabolic molecules circulate in the bloodstream. Some preliminary research suggests that there are distinct differences in the types and levels of these molecules between people with psoriatic disease and healthy people — and that their presence may be able to better predict someone’s risk of developing clogged arteries than traditional cardiovascular risk factors alone.
While these aren’t part of routine blood tests yet, in the future, psoriatic patients may be able to get more advanced blood testing to assess their cardiovascular risk based on whether they have higher levels of these different metabolic biomarkers in their blood.
Increased risk of gout/high uric acid levels
There is also a clear link between cardiovascular disease and gout, another type of arthritis. Gout causes an excessive amount of uric acid build up (also called hyperuricemia) in your blood, which causes inflammation and joint pain. At the 2019 American College of Rheumatology annual meeting, researchers revealed that people with PsA have a prevalence of hyperuricemia that is three times greater than those without the condition. This prolonged exposure to high levels of uric acid in the blood can interfere with endothelial dysfunction as well as structural changes in the heart (called atrial and ventricular remodeling), which is associated with congestive heart failure.
Mental health issues
Mental health plays a role in the link between psoriatic arthritis and heart disease. People with PsA are at an increased risk for depression and anxiety, which are also linked to heart disease. If left unchecked, these mental health conditions can also lead to unhealthy behaviors — such as smoking, drinking, physical inactivity, and overeating — that can further increase your heart disease risk.
Signs of Heart Disease PsA Patients Need to Know
In general, someone with PsA who has heart disease would experience similar symptoms as someone in the general population, says Dr. Mankad. It’s not just a chest-clutching heart attack to look out for, though. “Not everyone has classic chest pain,” she says. Symptoms of heart disease may include:
Chest pressure, tightness, or discomfort
Shortness of breath
Pain in the neck, throat, or jaw
Pain in the upper abdomen or back
Pain, numbness, weakness, or coldness in legs and arms
Nausea
Indigestion, heartburn, or stomach pain
Feeling dizzy or lightheaded
Fatigue
Excessive sweating
People may not always pay close attention to these symptoms, because they can be vague or people may assume they’re related to their psoriatic arthritis. “The problem is that any symptoms get attributed to your PsA. Patients may think that a pain in the chest is related to the arthritis,” says Dr. Mankad.
As such, patients may be more likely to delay seeking help, particularly if they are not aware of the link between PsA and heart disease.
Sometimes heart disease symptoms are silent or so subtle that people are not aware of them. Many people are tuned into a heart problem when they exercise or exert themselves in some way and are hit with chest tightness or pressure. “If you’re not exerting yourself as much because your joints hurt, you may not be doing enough to bring on these symptoms,” Dr. Mankad says. You may not realize something is wrong until later.
Screening for Heart Disease in Psoriatic Arthritis
Sometimes there is just so much to talk about at your visit with your rheumatologist or dermatologist that discussing the possibility of future heart disease risk may not take top priority. Still, when it comes to prevention, one of the most important things you can do is have this conversation with your doctor and ask about the steps you can take to improve your heart health.
Understand your risk factors
Many patients have untreated or unrecognized traditional heart disease risk factors, says Dr. Garshick — and these may affect people with PsA sooner than people without an underlying inflammatory condition.
“We have to understand that some of these risk factors that we think would cause heart disease 10 years down the line, may cause it five years sooner,” says Dr. Garshick.
Often, it’s a matter of paying more attention to them, adds Dr. Mankad. “Patients are so focused on the PsA symptoms they see in front of them, everything else goes underrecognized,” she says.
A few risk factors to consider:
Do you have high blood pressure?
Do you have type 2 diabetes?
Do you have high cholesterol?
Do you smoke?
Are you overweight?
Are you inactive?
Ask about regular screening tests
Unfortunately, traditional cardiovascular risk scores like the Framingham Risk Score (FRS) underestimate the risk of heart disease in people with psoriatic arthritis because they do not account for systemic inflammation, according to research shared in a special Journal of Rheumatology report called “Cardiovascular Diseases in Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis.”
The FRS estimates a 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease using an algorithm that takes into account traditional risk factors like age, cholesterol, hypertension, smoking, and diabetes as well as coronary disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral artery disease, and heart failure.
Last year, rheumatic inflammatory diseases, including PsA, were added as a “risk enhancer” to the general scoring system recommended by the American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association. In new guidelines on preventing heart disease, the ACC/AHA advises doctors to “use additional risk-enhancing factors [like having an inflammatory disease like PsA] to guide decisions about preventive interventions for borderline- or intermediate-risk adults” after their risk score is calculated.
Dr. Mankad hopes this change will encourage more doctors to prescribe cholesterol-lowering medication sooner to people with psoriatic arthritis.
For now, your best bet is to be proactive and request that your rheumatologist or primary care physician gives you the following screenings recommended by the American Heart Association to better identify and control your risk factors:
Blood pressure
Fasting lipoprotein profile (cholesterol)
Body weight/BMI
Waist circumference
Blood glucose
Does Treating/Controlling PsA Reduce Heart Disease Risk?
It makes sense that treating your psoriatic arthritis to keep heart-damaging inflammation at bay would reduce heart disease risk, although researchers are continuing to study this very question.
One observational study published this year in the journal Cardiovascular Research looked at 215 psoriasis patients with low cardiovascular risk. Some were on a biologic, while others opted not to be. After a year of follow-up, those who were on biologic treatment were found to have a 6 percent reduction in arterial plaque, likely because of a reduction in underlying inflammation.
“We do think treating a psoriatic condition will reduce the risk of heart disease, but we don’t know that yet,” says Dr. Garshick. “However, there are multiple other reasons to treat your PsA.”
That said, just because your PsA may be well controlled — say, in terms of minimal flares — does not mean you can assume everything is fine regarding your heart health. You still should be assessed for additional heart disease risk factors and practice healthy preventive lifestyle habits, he says.
Talk to Your Doctor About Your PsA Medication Choices
Make sure your doctor factors your heart health when creating your treatment plan. Certain medications used to treat PsA have been shown in studies to reduce heart disease risk, while others are known to increase it.
Steroids, for example, can raise cholesterol levels and make your body less sensitive to insulin, both of which contribute to cardiovascular risk. That is partly why rheumatologists use these medications carefully in people with PsA. Another reason is that the drugs can cause a flare of skin psoriasis.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, for pain relief can increase risk of cardiovascular problems like blood clots and heart failure, according to a 2015 analysis by the FDA.
Many biologics and disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), on the other hand, have been found to not only ease joint pain but also protect your heart.
A 2015 study published in the Journal of Drugs in Dermatology examined the health recorders of 8,845 people with psoriatic disease, with 1,673 of the participants taking TNF inhibitor biologics. Researchers found that people with psoriatic arthritis who took TNF inhibitors had lower incidence of plaque build-up and lower erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein levels, which are levels of systemic inflammation.
A 2019 study published in the journal Arthritis & Rheumatology of PsA patients with metabolic disorder found that participants who took apremilast (Otezla) twice daily for six months had lower insulin resistance, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction — good news for your joints and your heart.
How to Reduce Your Heart Disease Risk When You Have Psoriatic Arthritis
Here are more lifestyle changes you can make to reduce your risk of heart disease and manage your psoriatic arthritis:
Eat a plant-based diet
A Mediterranean diet (rich in legumes, vegetables, and whole grains, some fish, less red meat) is the ideal eating pattern for lowering inflammation, says Dr. Mankad. Here’s more on what a healthy diet for psoriatic arthritis looks like.
Go fish
Fatty fish like salmon and mackerel are loaded with anti-inflammatory omega-3 fatty acids, which may protect people with psoriatic arthritis against heart disease, according to a 2016 study published in the journal Lipids in Health and Disease. If you’re not a fan of seafood, fish oil supplements may be good alternative. It’s important to ask your doctor about the right dosage of fish oil for you, however, because higher doses can interact with certain medications, including drugs taken to control blood pressure.
Watch your sugar intake
Sugar is not so sweet for your joints — or your heart. “Sugar is an inflammatory agent, so cutting back seems to help,” says Dr. Mankad. Here is more information on how to cut out sugar from your diet.
Get moving
One of the common issues psoriatic arthritis patients express to Dr. Mankad is that they know exercise is good for them, but joint pain and stiffness makes this tough. “My advice is to pick the exercise that works with the joint that’s not bothering you at the time,” she says. For instance, if your knees are bothering you, focus on upper body exercises. If your wrists are in pain, do more walking.
Lose weight
Numerous studies have confirmed that excess weight can increase your risk of developing PsA as well as make it more difficult to manage the condition once you’ve been diagnosed. Having a higher body mass index (BMI) increases disease activity and PsA-related disability and may even interfere with the effectiveness of your medication.
In one study published in 2019 in the journal Arthritis Research & Therapy, PsA patients followed on an extremely low-calorie diet for 12 to 16 weeks (they stayed on their current medications to manage their disease). At the end of the study, they had lost about 18 percent of their body weight. They also reported an improvement in joint tenderness and swelling and general pain and fatigue.
However, focusing on the number on the scale may not be necessary. “Even if we don’t see weight loss, there’s often cardiometabolic improvements to following a healthy diet and good exercise habits,” says Dr. Garshick. Focusing on those can help you stay motivated to eat right and stay moving.
Ask about medication to control your cholesterol, blood pressure, and blood sugar
Depending on your risk factors and medical history, you may benefit from taking heart medications (such as drugs to lower cholesterol or blood pressure) sooner than people without psoriatic arthritis. Talk to your doctor about what kind of medication you can take to keep your numbers (such as blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar) in a heart-healthy range.
Statins, for example, work in the liver to lower cholesterol by blocking a liver enzyme that produces cholesterol. They also have strong anti-inflammatory properties. Yet the use of aspirin and statins among people with PsA is underutilized, according to a 2018 study published in the journal Arthritis & Rheumatology.
Bottom line: Talk to your doctor about what you can do to take care of your heart today. “PsA doesn’t go away. It’s a chronic condition. Throughout your lifetime, make sure that you’re on top of these other health factors. We can treat PsA, but that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t recognize the behind-the-scenes things that are happening,” says Dr. Mankad.
Keep Reading
Psoriatic Arthritis Comorbidities You Must Be Aware Of
ACR 2019: 9 New Things to Know About Psoriatic Arthritis
The Different ‘Types’ of Psoriatic Arthritis — and Why Knowing Your Type Matters
Sources
Arevalo A, et al. Cardiovascular Impact of Hyperuricemia in Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis [abstract]. Arthritis & Rheumatology. 2019. https://acrabstracts.org/abstract/cardiovascular-impact-of-hyperuricemia-in-patients-with-psoriatic-arthritis.
Arias de la Rosa I, et al. PDE4 Inhibition Could Improve Endothelial and Adipose Tissue Dysfunction Associated with Psoriatic Arthritis, Key Processes in Cardiovascular Disease [abstract]. Arthritis & Rheumatology. 2019. https://acrabstracts.org/abstract/pde4-inhibition-could-improve-endothelial-and-adipose-tissue-dysfunction-associated-with-psoriatic-arthritis-key-processes-in-cardiovascular-disease.
Eder L, et al. Cardiovascular Diseases in Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis. The Journal of Rheumatology. June 2019. doi: https://doi.org/10.3899/jrheum.190114.
Eder L, et al. Metabolomics Profile Predicts Carotid Atherosclerosis Progression in Psoriatic Disease [abstract]. Arthritis & Rheumatology. 2018. https://acrabstracts.org/abstract/metabolomics-profile-predicts-carotid-atherosclerosis-progression-in-psoriatic-disease.
Eder L, et al. The burden of carotid artery plaques is higher in patients with psoriatic arthritis compared with those with psoriasis alone. Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases. May 2013. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-201497.
Elnabawi YA, et al. Coronary artery plaque characteristics and treatment with biologic therapy in severe psoriasis: results from a prospective observational study. Cardiovascular Research. April 2019. doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/cvr/cvz009.
FDA Drug Safety Communication: FDA strengthens warning that non-aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause heart attacks or strokes. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-drug-safety-communication-fda-strengthens-warning-non-aspirin-nonsteroidal-anti-inflammatory. Published July 9, 2015.
Gonzalez‐Juanatey C, et al. Endothelial dysfunction in psoriatic arthritis patients without clinically evident cardiovascular disease or classic atherosclerosis risk factors. Arthritis Care & Research. March 2007. doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/art.22530.
Interview with Michael S. Garshick, MD, director of the Cardio-Rheumatology Program at NYU Langone Health in New York City
Interview with Rekha Mankad, MD, a cardiologist with the Cardio-Rheumatology Clinic at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota
Haroon M, et al. High Prevalence of Metabolic Syndrome and of Insulin Resistance in Psoriatic Arthritis is Associated with the Severity of Underlying Disease. The Journal of Rheumatology. July 2014. doi: https://doi.org/10.3899/jrheum.140021.
Heart-Health Screenings. American Heart Association. https://www.heart.org/en/health-topics/consumer-healthcare/what-is-cardiovascular-disease/heart-health-screenings.
Key Points From the 2019 ACC/AHA Guidelines on the Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease. American College of Cardiology. https://www.acc.org/latest-in-cardiology/articles/2019/04/29/07/42/key-points-from-the-2019-acc-aha-guidelines-on-the-primary-prevention-of-cvd.
Klingberg E, et al. Weight loss improves disease activity in patients with psoriatic arthritis and obesity: an interventional study. Arthritis Research & Therapy. January 2019. doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13075-019-1810-5.
Kristensen S, et al. The effect of marine n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on cardiac autonomic and hemodynamic function in patients with psoriatic arthritis: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lipids in Health and Disease. December 2016. doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/s12944-016-0382-5.
Pietrzak A, et al. Serum lipid metabolism in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis – an update. Archives of Medical Science. February 2019. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.5114/aoms.2018.74021.
Polachek A, et al. Risk of Cardiovascular Morbidity in Patients With Psoriatic Arthritis: A Meta‐Analysis of Observational Studies. Arthritis Care & Research. January 2017. doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/acr.22926.
Psoriatic Arthritis and Cardiovascular Disease Intertwined? Rheumatology Network. https://www.rheumatologynetwork.com/psoriatic-arthritis/psoriatic-arthritis-and-cardiovascular-disease-intertwined.
Radner H, et al. Incidence and Prevalence of Cardiovascular Risk Factors Among Patients With Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriasis, or Psoriatic Arthritis. Arthritis Care & Research. October 2017. doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/acr.23171.
Reddy S, et al. The Impact of Tumor Necrosis Factor Inhibitor Therapy for Psoriasis on Cardiovascular Risk.Journal of Drugs in Dermatology. August 2016. https://jddonline.com/articles/dermatology/S1545961616P1031X/1.
Rose S, et al. Psoriatic arthritis and sacroiliitis are associated with increased vascular inflammation by 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography computed tomography: baseline report from the Psoriasis Atherosclerosis and Cardiometabolic Disease Initiative. Arthritis Research & Therapy. July 2014. https://doi.org/10.1186/ar4676.
Truong L, et al. Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Psoriatic Arthritis: Evaluation of Risk Factor Management and Use of Aspirin and Statin for Prevention in a Primary Care Setting [abstract]. Arthritis & Rheumatology. 2018. https://acrabstracts.org/abstract/atherosclerotic-cardiovascular-disease-in-psoriatic-arthritis-evaluation-of-risk-factor-management-and-use-of-aspirin-and-statin-for-prevention-in-a-primary-care-setting.
Wu S, et al. Hypercholesterolemia and Risk of Incident Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis in US Women. Arthritis & Rheumatology. February 2014. doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/art.38227.
Was This Helpful?
Tags: Psoriatic Arthritis
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Suggested Reading
More Than What We Do: Redefining Productivity
Experts Update Definition of Rheumatoid Arthritis Remission
13 Tips to Make It Easier to Dress for Colder Weather with Arthritis
Just Published
Evusheld Not As Effective Against Newer Strains of COVID-19 — Here’s What That Means for You
More Than What We Do: Redefining Productivity
Experts Update Definition of Rheumatoid Arthritis Remission
Browse More
Psoriatic Arthritis
Subscribe
Subscribe to CreakyJoints for more related content.
Email
Δ
About CreakyJoints
CreakyJoints is a digital community for millions of arthritis patients and caregivers worldwide who seek education, support, advocacy, and patient-centered research. We present patients through our popular social media channels, our website CreakyJoints.org, and the 50-State Network, which includes nearly 1,500 trained volunteer patient, caregiver and healthcare activists.
About CreakyJoints
CreakyJoints is a digital community for millions of arthritis patients and caregivers worldwide who seek education, support, advocacy, and patient-centered research. We represent patients through our popular social media channels, our website CreakyJoints.org, and the 50-State Network, which includes nearly 1,500 trained volunteer patient, caregiver and healthcare activists.
Quick Links
About CreakyJoints
Press Releases
Our Partners
Contact Us
Our Resources
ghlf.org
ArthritisPower.org
50Statenetwork.org
FailFirstHurts.org
Terms & Conditions
Our Privacy Policy
Download Our App
DOWNLOAD ARTHRITISPOWER
Stay Connected
The contents of this website are for informational purposes only and do not constitute medical advice.CreakyJoints.org is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
~ Copyright © 1999 - 2022 CreakyJoints. All rights reserved. Part of the Global Healthy Living Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. ~
La información contenida en el sitio web de CreakyJoints Español se proporciona únicamente con fines de información general. CreakyJoints no brinda consejos médicos ni se dedica a la práctica de la medicina. La organización no recomienda bajo ninguna circunstancia ningún tratamiento en particular para individuos específicos y, en todos los casos, recomienda que consulte a su médico o centro de tratamiento local antes de continuar con cualquier tratamiento.
~ Copyright © 1999 - 2022 CreakyJoints. Reservados todos los derechos. Parte de Global Healthy Living Foundation, una organización sin fines de lucro 501 (c) (3). ~
Le contenu de ce site Web est à titre informatif uniquement et ne constitue pas un avis médical. CreakyJoints.org n'est pas destiné à se substituer à un avis médical professionnel, à un diagnostic ou à un traitement. Demandez toujours l'avis d'un médecin ou d'un autre professionnel de la santé qualifié pour toute question que vous pourriez avoir concernant une condition médicale.
~ Copyright © 1999 - 2022 CreakyJoints. Tous les droits sont réservés. Membre de la Global Healthy Living Foundation, une organisation à but non lucratif 501 (c) (3). ~
[class^="wpforms-"]
[class^="wpforms-"]
Family
Living with Arthritis
News
Research
Treatment
All Categories
Evusheld Not As Effective Against Newer Strains of COVID-19 — Here’s What That Means for You
Kelsey Kloss
Read More
More Than What We Do: Redefining Productivity
Angie Ebba
Read More
Experts Update Definition of Rheumatoid Arthritis Remission
Barbara Brody
Read More
Osteoporosis and Inflammatory Bowel Disease: What You Need to Know
Kerry Weiss
Read More
×
Login / Register
Login to comment on posts, connect with other members, access special offers and view exclusive content.
Telemonitoring and automated messages improve CPAP adherence | Scienmag: Latest Science and Health News
Sept. 12, 2017–Patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) are more likely to use CPAP, or continuous positive airway pressure, when their use is telemonitored and they receive individualized, automated messages that reinforce therapy adherence, according to a randomized, controlled trial published in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine.
Credit: Rotman School Toronto - A paper co-authored by a professor at the University of Toronto's Rotman…
Pneumonia Symptoms and Homeo Treatment - Best Homeo Clinic | Homeopathic Doctor Near me | Homeopathy Hospital in Hyderabad
Pneumonia Symptoms and Homeo Treatment
Pneumonia is an infection that can be bacterial, viral or fungal affecting either one or both lungs. It results in the filling up of air sacs in the lungs with fluid or pus causing inflammation of the lungs which may cause symptoms that may vary from being mild to severe. It has been observed that the effect of pneumonia is more severe on children under 2 years and adults who are above 65 years of age. If not diagnosed on time or left untreated, pneumonia can become a serious and fatal disease. Homeo clinics offer effective remedies that help in avoiding such a situation and for that, you should consult your doctor in time.
Usually, pneumonia starts with symptoms that are similar to cold and flu which later shows signs of high fever, chills and cough with sputum. The common symptoms that can help you identify if you have pneumonia are –
Problems with breathing – fast breathing and breath shortness
Change in skin colour that becomes purple due to poorly oxygenated blood
Treatment of pneumonia depends on the type and severity with which it affects a person. In the conventional methods of treatment, usually, pneumonia caused by the bacteria is treated with antibiotics and that caused by a virus is treated with antiviral medications. Pneumonia caused by fungus is treated with antifungal medications. Mostly, all these medicines are helpful to manage the symptoms and don't address the root cause which is focused upon by the Homeopathy Clinics. Depending on the cause, there are different types of pneumonia.
Bacterial pneumonia: This is the most common one and more serious than other types and is caused by various bacteria.
Viral pneumonia: This type is caused by a respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and influenza types A and B and symptoms generally develop over several days.
Aspiration pneumonia: This type of pneumonia is not contagious and results when food, liquids, or stomach contents are inhaled by a person into the lungs.
Fungal pneumonia: This is caused by fungus.
Hospital-acquired pneumonia: This type is seen in patients being treated in hospitals for other conditions.
One thing that is to be noted is that irrespective of the cause of pneumonia, the symptoms are similar in all patients. So, Homeo doctors believe that it is essential to get to the root cause and provide treatment accordingly to heal the patient completely.
Pneumonia & Homeopathy
Unlike the conventional treatment methods, Homeo remedies resolve the inflammation of the air sacs in the lungs thereby providing relief from the pneumonia symptoms effectively. Remedies offered by Delphis, the top homeopathy clinic in Hyderabad, can heal a patient with pneumonia completely as homeopathy provides holistic treatment by addressing the underlying cause and an individual's vulnerability. Homeo clinics base their treatment on individualized remedy selection depending on the exact cause, symptoms presented by the patient and the general health condition of the patient. Consult your homeopath as early as possible if you doubt your cold symptoms are signs of a far more serious health condition.
Choosing to participate in a clinical trial is an important personal decision. The following frequently asked questions will provide you with information about clinical trials.
A clinical trial is a research study to answer specific questions about vaccines or new therapies or new ways of using known treatments. Clinical trials (also called medical research and research studies) are used to determine whether new drugs or treatments are both safe and effective. Carefully conducted clinical trials are the fastest and safest way to find treatments that work.
Once researchers test new therapies or procedures in the laboratory and get promising results, they begin planning Phase 1 clinical trials. New therapies are tested on people only after laboratory and animal studies show promising results.
All clinical trials are based on a set of rules called a protocol. A protocol describes what types of people may participate in the trial; the schedule of tests, procedures, medications, and dosages; and the length of the study. While in a clinical trial, participants are seen regularly by the research staff to monitor their health and to determine the safety and effectiveness of the treatment.
In Phase 1 clinical trials, researchers test a new drug or treatment in a small group of people (20-80) for the first time to evaluate its safety, determine a safe dosage range, and identify side effects.
In Phase 2 clinical trials, the study drug or treatment is given to a larger group of people (40-100) to see if it is effective and to further evaluate its safety.
In Phase 3 studies, the study drug or treatment is given to large groups of people (more than 200) to further determine its effectiveness, monitor side effects, compare it to commonly used treatments, and collect information that will allow the drug or treatment to be used safely.
Phase 4 studies are done after the drug or treatment has been marketed. These studies continue testing the study drug or treatment to collect information about their effect in various populations and any side effects associated with long-term use.
The government has strict guidelines and safeguards to protect people who choose to participate in clinical trials. Every clinical trial in the United States must be approved and monitored by an Institutional Review Board (IRB) to make sure the risks are as low as possible and are worth any potential benefits.
An IRB is an independent committee of physicians, statisticians, community advocates and others that ensures that a clinical trial is ethical and the rights of study participants are protected. By federal regulation, all institutions that conduct or support biomedical research involving people must have an IRB that initially approves and periodically reviews the research.
Informed consent is the process of learning the key facts about a clinical trial before you decide whether or not to participate. These facts include:
If you are considering joining a clinical trial, the research staff will give you informed consent documents that include the details about the study. Because joining a clinical trial is an important decision, you should ask the research team any questions you may have about the study and the consent forms before you make a decision.
It is also a good idea to take the consent documents home and discuss them with family members or friends. Talking about your options can help you to feel comfortable with your decision. If you decide to join the clinical trial, be sure to ask for a copy of the informed consent documents so you can review them at any time.
Remember informed consent is more than signing a form. It is a process that continues through the study. You should feel free to ask the research team questions before, during, and after the study. Informed consent continues as long as you are in the study.
All clinical trials have guidelines about who can get into the program. Guidelines are based on such factors as age, type of disease, medical history and current medical condition. Before you join a clinical trial, you must qualify for the study. Some research studies seek volunteers with illnesses or conditions to be studied in the clinical trial, while others need healthy volunteers. Healthy volunteers participate in Phase 1 trials, some vaccine studies and trials on research on preventive care for children or adults.
The factors that allow you to participate in a clinical trial are called inclusion criteria and the factors that keep you from participating are called exclusion criteria. It is important to note that inclusion and exclusion criteria are not used to reject people personally. Instead, the criteria are used to identify appropriate participants and keep them safe. The criteria help ensure that researchers will be able to answer the questions they plan to study.
Clinical trials are sponsored by government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health; pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies; individual physician-investigators; health care institutions such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs); and organizations that develop medical devices or equipment. Trials can take place in a variety of locations such as hospitals, universities, doctors’ offices or community clinics.
The clinical trial process depends on the kind of trial in which you participate. The team will include doctors and nurses as well as social workers and other health care professionals. They will check your health at the beginning of the trial, give you specific instructions for participating in the trial, monitor you carefully during the trial, and stay in touch with you after the study.
Some clinical trials involve more tests and doctor visits than you would normally have for your illness or condition. For all types of trials, you will work with a research team. Your participation will be most successful if you follow the protocol carefully and stay in contact with the research staff.
A placebo is an inactive substance that has no treatment value. In clinical trials, experimental treatments are often compared with placebos to assess the treatment’s effectiveness. In some studies, the participants in the control group will receive a placebo instead of an active drug or treatment.
A control is the standard by which experimental observations are evaluated. In many clinical trials, one group of patients will be given an experimental drug or treatment, and the control group is given either a standard treatment for the illness or a placebo.
A blinded or masked study is one in which participants do not know whether they are in the experimental or control group in a research study. Those in the experimental group get the medications or treatments being tested, and those in the control group get a standard treatment or no treatment.
A double-blind or double-masked study is one in which neither the participants nor the study staff know which participants are receiving the experimental treatment and which ones are receiving either a standard treatment or a placebo. These studies are performed so that neither the patients’ nor the doctors’ expectations about the experimental drug can influence the outcome.
There are both benefits and risks associated with clinical trials. By participating in a clinical trial, you can:
The protocol may require a lot of your time for trips to the study site, treatments, hospital stays or complex dosage requirements
Yes. You can leave a clinical trial at any time. If you plan to stop participating, let the research team know why you are leaving the study.
Adapted from “What Is a Clinical Trial?” by the National Institutes of Health, available atwww.clinicaltrials.gov
On February 27, 2018, the Municipal Government Information Office held a press conference, releasing Measures to Deepen the Reform of Talent Management in Zhongguancun and Build an Internationally Competitive Mechanism for Bringing in and Hiring Talents, which contains 20 new reform measures to facilitate entry into and exit from Beijing for international talents, open up channels to bring in and hire international talents, support international talents in industry development, strengthen services and securityfor international talents, etc. Most of the measures have been put forward for the first time.
As regards the application for permanent residence, high-level talents of foreignnationality working in Zhongguancun, along with their spouses and children,continue to enjoy the "Zhi Tong Che" program for the application for permanent residence. In addition, the new measures will allow their spouses and children of foreign nationality to apply for permanent residence via the "Zhi Tong Che" program, with the aim of achieving full coverage of high-level talents and their families.
Apart from high-level international talents and their family members, overseas employees working for Zhongguancun-based enterprises and renowned foreign experts and scholars coming to Zhongguancun for exchange will be able to enter and exit the country more conveniently. The new measures will issue visit visas valid for multiple entry to renowned foreign experts and scholars coming to Zhongguancun and overseas employees working for Zhongguancun-based enterprises, thus eliminating the bother to frequently apply for the short-term visa and making it more convenient for foreign experts and scholars to visit Zhongguancun-baseduniversities, colleges and research institutes foracademic exchange.
The new measures also allow international talents to "stay" and "do well" in Beijing through opening up channels to bring in and hire international talents and supporting international talents in industry development.
To stimulateforeign talents' enthusiasm and initiative in participating in our country's technological innovation, the new measures will allow foreign scientists who have been granted permanent residence to leadnational technology projects within the Zhongguancun Demonstration Zone, while supporting high-level foreign personnel in leading Beijing's municipal technology projects.The implementation of the measureswill help expandthe role of foreign talentsin scientific research and improve the levels of domestic scientific research in some fields.
Meanwhile, the new measures will allow foreign talents who have been granted permanent residence to act as legal representatives of new-type scientific research institutes within the Zhongguancun Demonstration Zone, which will make it easier for new-type scientific research institutes to directly bring in top talents of foreign nationality and strive for the dominance of international technology competition.
In order to enable international talents to integrate into the society faster, the new measures also put forward a number of supporting service measures, such as simplifying the check-in procedure for foreign talents andachieving convenient network registration for foreign talents withfixed residences or fixed workplaces in Beijing, thus saving time and cost; supporting relevant insurance institutions developing and setting up insurance products targeted at foreign talents toprovide strong guarantees for them todevelop in Beijing without worries and attract more of them to Zhongguancun;pilot communities for international talents will be established in Wangjing (Chaoyang District), ZhongguancunStreet, Beijing Future Science Park (Changping District) and the new Shougang Area in 2018, providing a range of guarantees for foreign talents, including medical care, housing andchild education and making them feel at home.
The 2018 Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) aims to build a stronger community with a shared future between China and Africa. Since a long time, Beijing has friendly relations to major African cities. We give you more information about Beijing's sister cities and show you some highlights to each city.
Addis Ababa is the capital and largest city of Ethiopia. It is where the African Union has its headquarters and where its predecessor the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) was based. It also hosts the headquarters of the Unit...
Gauteng is considered the economic hub of South Africa and contributes heavily in the financial, manufacturing, transport, technology, and telecommunications sectors, among others. It also plays host to many overseas companies ...
Cairo has stood for more than 1,000 years on the same site on the banks of the Nile, primarily on the eastern shore. Located in the northeast of the country, Cairo is the gateway to the Nile delta.
Download Money Toughness: Riches of Heaven upon Earth 21 Principles of Financial Success and Abudance A New Transformed Better Lifestyle free pdf ebook online. Money Toughness: Riches of Heaven upon Earth 21 Principles of Financial Success and Abudance A New Transformed Better Lifestyle is a book by Prophet Dr. Wanjiru Gachie on December 18, 2017. Enjoy reading book with 488 pages by starting download or read online Money Toughness: Riches of Heaven upon Earth 21 Principles of Financial Success and Abudance A New Transformed Better Lifestyle.
Drug Rehab San Marcos, CA - Drug Treatment in San Marcos, FL - Get Sober
Drug Rehab San Marcos, CA
San Marcos, CA Drug Treatment Programs
The goal of our team is to guide our clients and their families to a better life than than one they have when they come to our program for the first time. Both our San Marcos, CA outpatient drug rehab and our inpatient drug rehab operate around this goal.
Individuals and families are constantly searching for a solution to what seems an unsolvable problem, and often report that before entering our drug rehab (or alcohol rehab) program they questioned whether or not a feasible, affordable, and effective path to recovery existed. A path does exists to create a better life. We also have treatment options in San Marino and San Luis Obispo.
What Types of Drug Rehab is Available in San Marcos, California?
Our San Marcos drug rehab and San Marcos alcohol rehab offers everything someone needs to create and implement a plan to recover from alcohol and drug addiction and improve their quality of life. Clients create a plan shaped around the needs and resources of the person and their family.
The alcohol and drug rehab in San Marcos, California facilitates group therapy and support with other local clients working to improve their lives. There is no limit on the time frame that clients engage in services. Service times that are flexible to a diverse group of working professionals.
Outpatient Drug Rehab in San Marcos
San Marcos intensive outpatient treatment or IOP programs combine the same individualized services as our General Outpatient Program with an intensity of 6-9 treatment hours each week. The 6-9 hours each week are comprised of sessions with our medical doctor, individual therapists, family therapists, group therapists, health and wellness staff, and other psycho-educational service staff.
Inpatient or Residential Drug Rehab in San Marcos
Detoxification is necessary when an individual is exhibiting or has the potential for serious symptoms of withdrawal. Withdrawal from alcohol and certain drugs may pose a life-threatening situation. In addition, many individuals experience symptoms that are not life-threatening, but make them so uncomfortable that continued use of drugs is necessary to maintain a false sense of wellness. This often keeps San Marcos California alcoholics and addicts from seeking recovery.
How Much Does Drug Treatment Cost in San Marcos, CA
The cost of drug rehab in San Marcos, California can vary widely. It can depend on whether or not you have insurance, what your insurance benefits will covers, and other factors. Cash patients may qualify for grants offered in California and will tend to pay less.
Inpatient drug rehabilitation in San Marcos is always more expensive than Intensive Outpatient treatment. The reason is because the client is living in the facility and it costs more to house a person full time rather than have them living at their home or halfway house.
The price varies but drug rehab programs in San Marcos can cost as little as free or as much as 25,000 per month or more. It's best to call the treatment hotline at +1-877-226-0319 to get the exact price for treatment.
Ready to Enter a Drug Rehab in San Marcos, California?
Drug and alcohol addiction is a disease that affects all aspects of a person's life and the lives of those around them. At our San Marcos, CA Treatment Center, we approach each case medically and psychologically. We utilize the twelve step system throughout the recovery process which may include detoxification, inpatient, and outpatient therapy.
Most Common Questions About San Marcos Drug Treatment
Be sure to call the hotline to find out what options are available to you. We find that most people are surprised about how easy it is to get into a drug rehab in San Marcos.
It is possible. Call our hotline for more info about drug treatment interventions for people living in San Marcos, California.
San Marcos Drug Addiction Hotline
San Marcos Drug Rehab Service Area Map
We Offer Drug Addiction Treatment to People Living in the Following San Marcos, California Zip Codes:
Associated illness severity in schizophrenia and diabetes mellitus : a systematic review - WRAP: Warwick Research Archive Portal
Associated illness severity in schizophrenia and diabetes mellitus : a systematic review
WRAP-associated-illness-diabetes-review-Perry-2017.pdf - Accepted Version - Requires a PDF viewer.
Official URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2017.06.027
We aimed to elucidate whether schizophrenia and type II diabetes mellitus may present with associated illness severity, in light of accumulating evidence to suggest both conditions have important shared inflammatory components with many shared inflammatory genetic factors.
We conducted a systematic review employing PRISMA criteria, searching EMBASE, Ovid MEDLINE, PsychInfo, Web of Science and Google Scholar to February 1st 2017, for clinical studies assessing schizophrenia severity alongside dysglycaemia. A narrative synthesis was employed to discuss and compare findings between studies.
Eleven observational studies were included in the analysis. Ten presented evidence in support of an association between schizophrenia severity and dysglycaemia. This association appeared particularly strong regarding negative symptomatology and impaired cognitive function, between which there may be some overlap. Studies examining positive symptomatology returned mixed results.
Whilst study design varied amongst the included studies, the results suggest that further work examining the effect of hyperglycaemia on schizophrenia severity may be relevant, particularly longitudinal studies assessing negative symptomatology and cognitive function. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first systematic review conducted to address this question.
