Tech Effort Spinning Up Success - Inside INdiana Business
A technology-driven accelerator has topped $2 million in funding for Indiana startups. Indiana University Research and Technology Corp.'s Spin Up initiative has helped university inventors launch 24 companies since 2011. Joe Trebley with IURTC says the program aims to provide an "extra set of hands" to help with the administrative work it takes to get a startup off the ground. One of Spin Up's top success stories is Anagin, which recently won the BioCrossroads New Venture Competition for its post-traumatic stress disorder treatment. Trebley and Anagin co-founder Anantha Shekhar recently discussed the accelerator on Inside INdiana Business Television.
Indianapolis, Ind. - Anagin, a company launched by two Indiana University scientists to develop a first-of-its-kind treatment to battle post-traumatic stress disorder, emerged from six finalists Tuesday to win the third annual BioCrossroads New Venture Competition.
Journal List > Ann Clin Neurophysiol > v.23(2) > 1147832
Kim, Jang, Park, and Kim: Refractory Bell's palsy responding to late treatment with high-dose intravenous steroids
2021; 23(2): 121-125.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.14253/acn.2021.23.2.121
Refractory Bell's palsy responding to late treatment with high-dose intravenous steroids
Baul Kim1 , Soo-Im Jang1 , Soo-Hyun Park2 , Nam-Hee Kim1
Correspondence to Nam-Hee Kim Department of Neurology, Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, 27 Dongguk-ro, Ilsandong-gu, Goyang 10326, Korea Tel: +82-31-961-7214 Fax: +82-31-961-7212 E-mail: nheekim8@hanmail.net
Received 15 June 2021 Revised 13 August 2021 Accepted 16 August 2021
Bell's palsy is an acute peripheral facial paralysis with no detectable cause. Although the prognosis of Bell's palsy is generally good, some patients experience poor recoveries and there is no established treatment for those that do not recover even after receiving the conventional treatment. Here we present two cases of refractory Bell's palsy with facial nerve enhancement in magnetic resonance imaging who showed symptomatic improvement after the late administration of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone.
Keywords: Bell's palsy, Facial palsy, Intravenous, Steroid
Bell's palsy is the most common form of acute facial weakness, with an annual incidence of 20 to 30 cases per 100,000 persons.1 The reactivation of latent herpes simplex virus or varicella zoster virus within geniculate ganglia causes neuropathy with cytotoxic edema induced by neuronal inflammation in Bell's palsy.2 Thus, facial nerve enhancement usually appears initially and then disappears at a follow-up performed after more than 1 month with the recovery of facial weakness.3 This pathogenesis has led to corticosteroids and antiviral agents being used to treat Bell's palsy. Although most patients with Bell's palsy either partially or completely recover within 3 weeks to 3 months, up to 30% of the patients have long-term sequelae such as permanent facial weakness even after receiving appropriate treatment.4 Nonrecovering facial weakness may be disfiguring, socially isolating, psychologically morbid, and occasionally debilitating due to severe corneal damage. The prognosis of patients with Bell's palsy is most reliably predicted by the severity of degeneration of the facial nerve.5 In addition, it is argued that facial nerve enhancement in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is one of poor prognostic factors for Bell's palsy.3
There is no established treatment for patients who do not recover even after receiving appropriate treatment. Although larger studies are needed for confirmation, there have been a case of symptomatic improvement in nonrecovering facial palsy with facial nerve enhancement after high-dose intravenous (IV) methylprednisolone.6
Here we report two cases of nonrecovering Bell's palsy with nerve enhancement even at 2 months after onset, demonstrating that recovery was accelerated by high-dose IV methylprednisolone. This finding might represent evidence of a useful treatment option for nonrecovering facial palsy.
A 53-year-old male experienced sudden-onset left peripheral facial palsy of grade 4 according to the House-Brackmann (HB) facial grading system. He had no underlying disease other than hypertension. He was treated with oral prednisone (70 mg/day for 6 days, followed by tapering over the following 4 days) based on the body weight starting from 10 days after the clinical onset, but there was no improvement (i.e., remaining at HB grade 4) until 69 days after the onset. MRI was first performed at that time, which showed prominent diffuse enhancement in labyrinthine segments, geniculate ganglion, and tympanic and mastoid segments of the left facial nerve (Fig. 1). Laboratory studies including serology for vasculitis and the cerebrospinal fluid revealed no significant abnormality. The blink reflex and a facial nerve conduction study (NCS) showed no response in the pathway of the left facial nerve (Table 1). IV methylprednisolone (1 g/day for 5 days) was started on day 72 after the onset, and on day 80 he reported a partial recovery of the left facial weakness to HB grade 3 (Fig. 2). On day 310, more-prominent functional recovery was observed in the left orbicularis oculi and oris muscle strength to HB grade 2, and an electrophysiological evaluation showed partial recovery of the left orbicularis oculi response in the blink reflex but no response in the facial NCS (Table 1).
A 73-year-old male patient experienced an acute severe left facial palsy of HB grade 5. He had no specific underlying disease. He received oral prednisone (70 mg/day for 6 days, followed by tapering) based on the body weight with an antiviral agent (Famvir at 750 mg qd for 5 days) for severe facial weakness starting from 3 days after the onset. However, there was no improvement (i.e., remaining at HB grade 5) until 60 days after the symptom onset. MRI was first performed at that time, which showed abnormal enhancement along the labyrinthine segments, geniculate ganglion, and tympanic segment of the left facial nerve (Fig. 1). Laboratory studies including serology for vasculitis and the cerebrospinal fluid revealed no significant abnormality. The blink reflex and a facial NCS revealed no response in the pathway of the left facial nerve (Table 1). IV methylprednisolone (1 g/day for 5 days) was started on day 60 after the onset, and on day 65 he reported partial recovery of the left facial weakness to HB grade 4 (Fig. 2). More-prominent functional recovery was observed in the left orbicularis oculi and oris muscle strength up to HB grade 3 on day 198, and an electrophysiological evaluation on day 535 showed partial recovery of the left orbicularis oculi muscle response in the blink reflex (Table 1). In addition, compared to the first NCS result (no response), the amplitude of compound muscle action potentials had improved on day 535 (to 54% relative to the normal side).
Treatment of Bell's palsy is based on the empirical administration of oral steroids, with the addition of an antiviral drug such as acyclovir, famciclovir, or valacyclovir if symptoms are severe.1 In our patients, the conventional antiviral and oral corticosteroid treatment did not result in any clinical improvement, whereas the administration of high-dose IV methylprednisolone on day 72 after the onset in one patient and on day 60 in the other patient accelerated their recovery of facial weakness. This suggests that high-dose IV steroid therapy favorably influences the outcome in nonrecovering facial palsy.
The prognosis of Bell's palsy can be predicted most accurately from the degree of facial nerve degeneration.5 It is now well known that Bell's palsy is more likely to have a poor prognosis if more than 90% of facial nerve degeneration is present in electroneurography.5 Conventional treatment is often insufficient in patients exceeding this critical limit, which results in the probability of a full recovery from facial paralysis being only 0-25% in these patients.7 Therefore, research is needed into treatment options to promote recovery in these patients. The reported poor prognostic factors in Bell's palsy include being older than 40 years, having poor electrophysiological results after 2 weeks of treatment, and the presence of diabetes or hypertension.4
The mechanisms underlying abnormal contrast enhancement in cranial nerves are not yet fully understood. This enhancement is thought to be related either to hypervascularity of perineural structures or to actual disruption of the blood-nerve barrier resulting from inflammation.8 A characteristic finding is that the internal acoustic meatal segment of the facial nerve is enhanced only on the side affected by Bell's palsy, and this MRI enhancement is known to have no definite correlations with the severity of the facial palsy or the results of electrophysiological examinations. The disappearance of facial nerve enhancement, which usually occurs at follow-ups performed after more than 1 month, was found to be related to improved facial nerve function during the recovery from Bell's palsy.8
Our two cases had facial nerve enhancement findings on MRI even at 2 months after the onset of facial palsy, which suggests ongoing inflammation of the facial nerve.9 Glucocorticoids can be used to accelerate the recovery from this inflammation due to their anti-inflammatory effects, which are mainly attributable to the action of glucocorticoid receptors that alter the transcription of numerous genes in cells.10 We administered IV methylprednisolone in cases of nonrecovering facial palsy after ruling out other possible causes of cranial nerve inflammation, with the results suggesting that the late application of high-dose IV steroid can improve facial weakness that has not yet recovered.
Therefore, it can be assumed that high-dose IV steroid treatment might be a useful therapy for Bell's palsy that has not recovered with the standard regimen of an antiviral plus oral steroid. Furthermore, the improvement noted in our patients suggests that this treatment is successful even as a late treatment option. However, larger studies are needed to confirm this hypothesis.
1. Holland NJ, Weiner GM. Recent developments in Bell's palsy. BMJ. 2004; 329:553–557.
2. Peitersen E. Bell's palsy: the spontaneous course of 2,500 peripheral facial nerve palsies of different etiologies. Acta Otolaryngol Suppl. 2002; (549):4–30.
3. Kress B, Griesbeck F, Stippich C, Bähren W, Sartor K. Bell palsy: quantitative analysis of MR imaging data as a method of predicting outcome. Radiology. 2004; 230:504–509.
4. Yoo MC, Soh Y, Chon J, Lee JH, Jung J, Kim SS, et al. Evaluation of factors associated with favorable outcomes in adults with Bell palsy. JAMA Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2020; 146:256–263.
5. Fisch U. Prognostic value of electrical tests in acute facial paralysis. Am J Otol. 1984; 5:494–498.
6. Donati D, De Santi L, Ginanneschi F, Cerase A, Annunziata P. Successful response of non-recovering Ramsay Hunt syndrome to intravenous high dose methylprednisolone. J Neurol Sci. 2012; 318:160–162.
7. May M, Blumenthal F, Klein SR. Acute Bell's palsy: prognostic value of evoked electromyography, maximal stimulation, and other electrical tests. Am J Otol. 1983; 5:1–7.
8. Tien RD, Dillon WP. Herpes trigeminal neuritis and rhombencephalitis on Gd-DTPA-enhanced MR imaging. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1990; 11:413–414.
9. Kim IS, Shin SH, Kim J, Lee WS, Lee HK. Correlation between MRI and operative findings in Bell's palsy and Ramsay Hunt syndrome. Yonsei Med J. 2007; 48:963–968.
10. Coutinho AE, Chapman KE. The anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects of glucocorticoids, recent developments and mechanistic insights. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2011; 335:2–13.
(A) Internal auditory canal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in case 1 (53 days after the onset): gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted axial MRI exhibited prominent diffuse enhancement in the labyrinthine (white arrow), geniculate ganglion (blue arrow), and tympanic (yellow arrow) and mastoid segments (red arrow) of the left facial nerve. (B) Internal auditory canal MRI in case 2 (60 days after the onset): gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted axial MRI exhibited abnormal enhancement along the labyrinthine segments (white arrow), geniculate ganglion (blue arrow), and tympanic segment (yellow arrow) of the left facial nerve.
Recovery of facial nerve function over time. Intravenous (IV) steroid pulse therapy appeared to accelerate the recovery of facial weakness in refractory cases. M, months.
Findings of electrophysiological tests over time in the two cases
Time point after onset
Days after onset 53 153 310
Unaffected side (right) R1 D R2 D R2 C R1 D R2 D R2 C R1 D R2 D R2 C
10.9 ms 37.4 ms 38.2 ms 11.2 ms 36.0 ms 37.3 ms 10.6 ms 35.8 ms 35.2 ms
Affected side (left) R1 D R2 D R2 C R1 D R2 D R2 C R1 D R2 D R2 C
NR NR NR NR NR NR 15.2 ms 42.8 ms 43.6 ms
Unaffected side (right) Latency Amplitude Latency Amplitude Latency Amplitude
3.2 ms 7.0 mV 3.1 ms 7.1 mV 3.0 ms 9.2 mV
Affected side (left) Latency Amplitude Latency Amplitude Latency Amplitude
Days after onset 60 198 535
11.2 ms 31.6 ms 31.6 ms 10.8 ms 32.5 ms 33.0 ms 9.6 ms 33.3 ms 34.6 ms
NR NR NR NR NR NR 11.6 ms 35.8 ms 35.9 ms
2.9 ms 2.9 mV 2.7 ms 5.3 mV 2.6 ms 4.6 mV
NR NR NR NR 3.6 ms 2.5 mV
Blink reflex test was performed by stimulating the supraorbital nerve and recording the response in the orbicularis oculi muscle. Facial NCS was performed by stimulating the zygomatic branch of the facial nerve and recording the response in the orbicularis oculi muscle.
R1, R1 response; R2, R2 response; D, direct response; C, consensual response; NR, no response; NCS, nerve conduction study.
Home - Exercise Science and Sport Management - Logan Library at Schreiner University
Exercise Science and Sport Management: Home
Resources for Students Majoring in Exercise Science or Sport Management
Recent Articles in the International Journal of Exercise Science
BioMed Central Provides open access to peer journals in biology, clinical medicine and health.
ESPN.com Up to date sports information and links to NFL, NBA, NASCAR, NHA, and WNBA websites.
International Olympic Committee Links to a variety of information in a variety of languages.
Medline Plus: Sports Injuries General information about sports injuries provided by the National Library of Medicine.
National Center for Health Statistics NCHS data systems includes data on vital events as well as information on health status, lifestyle and exposure to unhealthy influences, the onset and diagnosis of illness and disability, and the use of health care.
PUBMed PubMed comprises more than 26 million citations for biomedical literature from MEDLINE, life science journals, and online books.
Texas Education Agency The TEA site contains information about educational programs, curriculum, accreditation, school finance, school laws and rules for the state of Texas. See Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills for Physical Education and Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills for Health Education
Women's Sports Foundation Dedicated to increasing the participation of girls and women in sports and fitness and creating an educated public that supports gender equity in sport.
The American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance (AAHPERD)
Search for a Book, DVD or Other Media
Provides access to all the materials (books, dvds, etc.) on the shelves at Logan Library.
Contains more than 58 million bibliographic records for books, manuscripts, web sites and internet resources, maps, computer programs, musical scores, films and slides, newspapers, journals and magazines, sound recordings, articles, chapters, papers and videotapes. Represents over 400 languages and uses Library of Congress Subject Headings as its thesaurus. Coverage is 1000 BC to present.
Search for an Article in the Databases
Provides reviews of primary research literature identifying the principal contributions in the field. Editorial committees comprised of the most distinguished scholars in the discipline select all topics for review, and the articles are written by authors who are recognized experts in the field.
Provides consumer information on many health topics including the medical sciences, food sciences and nutrition, childcare, sports medicine and general health.
Provides access to abstracts and indexing for nearly 850 scholarly journals focusing on many medical disciplines, 550 of which are full text.
A Spanish language collection of medical research and investigative journals published by renowned Latin American medical publishers. Content within MedicLatina is gathered from more than 200 full text peer-reviewed journals, providing comprehensive coverage of a broad range of subjects. Additionally, the database is updated on a weekly basis to incorporate new material, including the most up-to-date medical research available in Spanish.
Spanish language resource.
This database provides full-text for many of the most-used biomedical and health journals indexed in MEDLINE. Many journals are available with no embargo, allowing doctors, nurses, health professionals and researchers to access to the information as soon as it is published. MEDLINE provides full text access to over 1,400 journals including 580 journals not found with full text in any version of Academic Search, Health Source or Biomedical Reference Collection.
Contains almost two hundred articles on medical conditions, presenting, in an evidence-based manner, the alternative medicine therapies proposed for use in their treatment. Also contains detailed, evidence-based information on herbs and supplements, functional foods, and other alternative therapies such as acupuncture and homeopathy. The evidence-based content has been developed and reviewed by a team of physicians and pharmacologists with the goal of providing consumers with reliable information.
Affiliated Laboratories | The University of Chicago
One of the world's premier research universities, the University of Chicago helps lead the country in scientific and technological innovation in part through its management of two U.S. Department of Energy laboratories, Argonne and Fermilab, and the world-renowned Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL). UChicago has contributed its expertise as the prime contractor for Argonne National Laboratory since the lab's founding in 1946 and as co-contractor with the Universities Research Association for Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory since 2007. UChicago and MBL formed an affiliation on July 1, 2013, that enhances both institutions' missions of leadership and innovation in scientific research and education. The affiliation builds on shared values and historical ties between Chicago and the MBL, which was led by UChicago faculty members for the first four decades of its existence.
Partnerships among the three labs and UChicago facilitate collaborative research among UChicago faculty and students and laboratory scientists and engineers—with some faculty holding joint appointments within the laboratories. These broadened research initiatives are strengthened by combining University and laboratory intellectual and physical resources, paving the way for greater impact in Illinois, the United States, and across the globe.
Explore our national lab stewardship
Learn more about our MBL affiliation
Founded in 1946 as an outgrowth of the Manhattan Project and the University of Chicago's Metallurgical Laboratory, Argonne's broad science and engineering portfolio aims to solve the nation's most important challenges in energy, the environment, and national security. From designing more efficient jet engines on one of the world's fastest computers to decoding the proteins behind drug-resistant superbugs at the Advanced Photon Source, Argonne research has continued breaking ground for more than six decades. In 2011, advanced battery research, which began over 20 years ago at Argonne, enabled the development of the breakthrough cathode technology that helps power the Chevy Volt. Through advancements like these, Argonne's research and development touches lives around the globe.
Fermilab is the country's only national laboratory dedicated to the study of particle physics. It is a user facility for more than 2,000 scientists and students from around the world. In 2011, researchers conducting work at the lab came from 116 U.S. and 140 foreign universities and laboratories. Currently Fermilab is building the nation's most advanced test facility for superconducting radio-frequency technology. This innovative technology will serve as the model for next-generation accelerators and the future of particle physics.
The MBL is dedicated to scientific discovery and improving the human condition through research and education in biology, biomedicine, and environmental science. Founded in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, in 1888, the MBL is a private, nonprofit institution and an affiliate of the University of Chicago. The MBL has approximately 300 year-round employees, about half of which are scientists and science support staff. The staff is joined each year by more than 300 visiting scientists, summer staff, and research associates from hundreds of institutions around the world, as well as a large number of faculty and students participating in MBL courses. Among the scientists with a significant affiliation with the MBL (scientists, course faculty and students) are 55 Nobel Prize winners (since 1929); 118 Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigators, early career scientists, international researchers, and professors (since 1960); 202 Members of the National Academy of Sciences (since 1960); and 178 Members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (since 1960).
National Lab Stewardship
With more than 70 years of experience managing national laboratories, UChicago helps ensure the nation's security and prosperity through transformative science and technology.
Argonne researchers address the nation's most important challenges in energy, the environment, and national security.
Explore Argonne
Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory is the country's only national lab dedicated to the study of particle physics.
Explore Fermilab
UChicago's partnership with the Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) supports the institution's mission of scientific discovery and improving the human condition through research and education in biological and environmental science.
United States Workplace Stress Management Market Outlook & Forecast 2022-2027 with Analysis of COVID-19 Impacts - ResearchAndMarkets.com | Business Wire
January 26, 2022 08:45 AM Eastern Standard Time
DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The "U.S. Workplace Stress Management Market - Industry Outlook & Forecast 2022-2027" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The pandemic aggravated stress, driving demand for therapeutic intervention and demonstrating the need for equitable and accessible mental health benefits. The disaster distress helpline, a federal crisis hotline operated by the substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, has witnessed an increase of over 300% in calls since February 2020.
The U.S. workplace stress management market is particularly growing with the presence of vendors such as ComPsysch, LabCorp, ActiveHealth, CuraLinc Healthcare, and Marino Wellness, among others offering services at workplaces.
Demand for beds causes surgery cancellations - Gazette Live
Demand for beds causes surgery cancellations
A TEESSIDE hospital has had to cancel non-urgent operations to cope with an unprecedented demand on beds.
10:50, 13 JAN 2009
James Cook University Hospital in Middlesbrough cancelled 29 planned operations last week due to high numbers of emergency admissions and more patients look set to face delays this week.
The cancellations do not affect clinically urgent, day case or children's surgery (under 16s) or patients on cancer care pathways.
But, as of last Monday, many patients with appointments for routine operations have been told not to bother coming in as there are no spare beds.
Director of operational services Susan Watson said: "Providing emergency care is a difficult task all year round but over the last few weeks, there has been huge demand for hospital beds which has put pressure on the trust.
"There has been a high prevalence of flu and illness in the local community, and this in turn has placed great strains on the service and our staff, who already work exceptionally hard throughout the year.
"Staff have put in a lot of extra effort to help meet this demand and across the trust we have put additional plans in place, such as opening up extra beds, increasing staff support, greater use of the discharge lounge and reviewing the situation on a daily basis so we can make the best - and safest - decisions for patients.
"Regrettably, the pressure on beds has continued and we have now reluctantly taken the decision to cancel some elective (planned and non-urgent) operations at The James Cook University Hospital.
"This was a collective decision, as staff thought it was very unfair to allow patients booked in for elective surgery to come into hospital, only to be told their operation had to be cancelled that day as there was no bed or theatre slot available for them.
"Patients are being contacted individually by staff in the clinical specialties and are being advised that if the situation improves we may be able to telephone them at short notice to reinstate their admission."
She said the trust is also looking at working with the independent sector more closely to see if any elective lists can be transferred to keep the number of cancellations to a minimum.
ARS Home » Southeast Area » Athens, Georgia » U.S. National Poultry Research Center » Bacterial Epidemiology & Antimicrobial Resistance Research » Research » Publications at this Location » Publication #383582
Title: Unveiling the gut microbiota and resistome of the wild cotton-mice, Peromyscus gossypinus, from heavy metal and radionuclide-contaminated sites in the Southeastern US
KIERAN, TROY - University Of Georgia
BAYONA-VASQUEZ, NATALIA - University Of Georgia
MCARTHUR, J VAUN - University Of Georgia
Citation: Thomas, J.C., Kieran, T.J., Finger, J.W., Bayona-Vasquez, N.J., Oladeinde, A.A., Beasley, J., Seaman, J.C., Mcarthur, J., Rhodes, O.E., Glenn, T.C. 2021. Unveiling the gut microbiota and resistome of the wild cotton-mice, Peromyscus gossypinus, from heavy metal and radionuclide-contaminated sites in the Southeastern US. American Society for Microbiology. 9:e00097-21. https://doi.org/10.1128/Spectrum.00097-21.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1128/Spectrum.00097-21
Interpretive Summary: To stop the increase in antibiotic resistant bacteria, it is important we understand if and how environmental contaminants such as metals contribute to the spread of antibiotic resistance genes. Bacterial exposure to metals has been demonstrated to be a predisposing factor for antibiotic resistance acquisition but how metals co-select for antibiotic resistance bacterial population is not fully understood. In this study, we compared the microbiome of mice captured from pristine sites to areas affected by legacies of heavy metals and radionuclide at the Savannah River Site. We identified an assortment of co-occurring antimicrobial and metal resistance genes in mice from all areas including sites without a history of contamination, but their abundance was higher in sites with radionuclide contamination. These results support previous studies and enhance our understanding of how metals can co-select for antibiotic resistance.
Technical Abstract: Antimicrobial resistance is a serious global public health concern because of its prevalence and ubiquitous distribution. The rapid dissemination of antibiotic resistant genes (ARGs) is thought to be the result of the massive overuse of antibiotics in agriculture and therapeutics. However, as previous studies have indicated, these are not the only sources of ARGs. There is a large body of evidence that has demonstrated that the dissemination of ARGs can also be influenced by heavy metal (HM) contamination. This co-selection phenomenon, whereby different resistance determinants are genetically linked on the same genetic element (co-resistance) or a single genetic element provides tolerance to multiple antimicrobial agents (cross-resistance) has profound clinical and environmental implications. In contrast to antibiotics, metals are not subject to degradation, and thus can persist in the environment as a selection pressure for long periods of time. While significant progress has been made to further characterize the influence of HMs on the enrichment and dissemination of ARGs in the environment, there is still much we do not know. To fill this knowledge gap, we present a comprehensive analysis of gut bacteria associated with wild cotton mouse, Peromyscus gossypinus, trapped from several areas affected by legacies of HM and radionuclide contamination. We explore how these contaminants affect gut microbial community (GMC) composition and diversity, and the enrichment of antibiotic, biocide, and metal-resistance genes. Although, we were able to identify that a myriad of co-occurring antimicrobial and HM resistance genes appear in mice from all areas including those without a history of contamination. The proportions of co-occurrence of ARGs and metal resistance genes (MRGs) is higher in sites with radionuclide contamination. These results support several previous studies and enhance our understanding of the co-selection process, while providing new insights into the ubiquity of antimicrobial resistance in the resistome of wild animals.
Abstract The paper describes entrainment into sprays produced by a consumer product aerosol dispenser that allows substitution of water for volatile organic compound solvents and air for hydrocarbon propellants. Experimental data are analyzed, along with measured momentum rate data that were aquired as part of the study. The analysis shows that dimensionless entrainment by sprays produced using this type of atomizer is accurately predicted, using: (1) the distance along the spray acix; (2) the exit orifice diameter; (3) the spray momentum rate at the exit orifice; (4) the density of the entrained air; (5) the entrained gas mass flow rate; (6) the mass flow rate of liquid exiting the dispenser; and (7) the entrainment whose value is 0.15 plus or minus 0.056.
Supplementary Notes Presented at the Institute of Liquid Atomization and Spray Systems Meeting, San Francisco, CA., May 19-22, 1996. Sponsored by Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. Air Pollution Prevention and Control Div.
This privacy policy has been developed taking into account the provisions of the Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data in force, as well as Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the movement of such data, hereinafter RGPD.
The purpose of this Privacy Policy is to inform the holders of personal data, about whom information is being collected, about specific aspects related to the processing of their data, among other things, the purposes of the processing, the contact details for exercising their rights, the time limits for the conservation of the information and the security measures.
Data controller
In terms of data protection, ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. should be considered responsible for the processing, in relation to the files/processing identified in this policy, specifically in the section Data processing.
Data identifying the owner of this website:
Company name: ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. NIF: B21530068 Address: Paseo de las Cumbres, s/n, 21449-ISLANTILLA-LEPE-HUELVA Telephone: 959873344 Email: info@amaresidencesandalucia.com DPO data: info@seinin.com
Data processing
The personal data requested, where appropriate, will consist only of those strictly necessary to identify and respond to the request made by the holder of the same, hereinafter the Interested Party. On the other hand, personal data will be collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and will not be further processed in a way that is incompatible with such purposes.
The data collected from each interested party will be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the corresponding purposes for each case, and will be updated whenever necessary.
The owner of the data will be informed, prior to the collection of their data, of the general points in this policy so that they can give their express, precise and unequivocal consent to the processing of their data, in accordance with the following aspects.
Purposes of the treatment
The explicit purposes for which each of the processing operations is carried out are set out in the information clauses incorporated into each of the data collection channels (web forms, paper forms, voiceovers or posters and information notes).
Nevertheless, the personal data of the interested party will be treated with the exclusive purpose of providing an effective response and attending to the requests made by the user, specified together with the option, service, form or system of data collection used by the owner.
Legitimation
As a general rule, prior to the processing of personal data, ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. obtains the express and unequivocal consent of the owner of the data, through the incorporation of informed consent clauses in the different information collection systems.
However, if the consent of the interested party is not required, the basis of legitimacy of the treatment in which ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. is protected is the existence of a specific law or regulation that authorizes or requires the treatment of the data of the interested party.
Addressees
As a general rule, ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. does not proceed to the transfer or communication of data to third parties, except as required by law. However, if necessary, such transfers or communications of data are informed to the interested party through informed consent clauses contained in the different ways of collecting personal data.
Source
As a general rule, personal data is always collected directly from the data subject, however, in certain exceptions, data may be collected through third parties, entities or services other than the data subject. In this regard, this will be conveyed to the data subject through the informed consent clauses contained in the different information collection channels and within a reasonable period of time, once the data has been obtained, and at the latest within one month.
Conservation periods
The information collected from the interested party will be kept as long as it is necessary to comply with the purpose for which the personal data was collected, so that, once the purpose has been fulfilled, the data will be cancelled. Such cancellation will result in the blocking of the data and will be kept only at the disposal of the Public Administrations, Judges and Courts, in order to deal with any possible liabilities arising from the processing, during the period of limitation of the latter. Once the aforementioned period has expired, the information will be destroyed.
For information purposes, below are the legal deadlines for the conservation of information in relation to the different matters:
DOCUMENT: Documentation of a labour or social security nature
TERM: 4 years
REF. LEGAL: Article 21 of the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2000, of 4 August, which approves the revised text of the Law on Infractions and Penalties in Social Order.
DOCUMENT: Accounting and tax documentation for commercial purposes
TERM: 6 years
REF. LEGAL: Art. 30 Commercial Code
DOCUMENT: Accounting and tax documentation for tax purposes
TERM: 4 years
REF. LEGAL: Articles 66 to 70 General Tax Law
DOCUMENT: Building access control
TERM: 1 month
REF. LEGAL: Instruction 1/1996 of the AEPD
DOCUMENT: Video surveillance
TERM: 1 month
REF. LEGAL: Instruction 1/2006 of the AEPD Organic Law 4/1997
Navigation data
In relation to the navigation data that can be processed through the website, in case data subject to regulations is collected, we recommend that you consult the Cookie Policy published on our website.
Rights of the interested parties
Data protection regulations grant a series of rights to interested parties or data owners, website users or users of ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. social network profiles.
These rights that assist the interested parties are the following:
– Right of access: the right to obtain information on whether their own data is being processed, the purpose of the processing being carried out, the categories of data concerned, the recipients or categories of recipients, the period of conservation and the origin of such data.
– Right of rectification: right to obtain the rectification of inaccurate personal data or incomplete.
– Right of deletion: right to obtain the deletion of data in the following cases:
When the data is no longer necessary for the purpose for which it was collected
When the data subject withdraws consent
When the data subject opposes the processing
When they must be deleted in compliance with a legal obligation
When the data has been obtained by virtue of an information society service in accordance with Article 8, paragraph 1 of the European Data Protection Regulation.
– Right to object: right to object to a certain processing operation based on the consent of the data subject.
– Right of limitation: the right to obtain limitation of the processing of the data when it is one of the following cases:
When the person concerned contests the accuracy of the personal data, for a period of time.
Where the processing is unlawful and the data subject opposes the deletion of the data.
Where the data subject no longer needs the data for the purpose for which it was collected, but the data subject needs them for the formulation, exercise or defence of a claim.
Where the data subject has opposed the processing while it is verified whether the grounds the legitimate interests of the company take precedence over those of the person concerned.
– Right to portability: right to obtain data in a structured form, to be used and machine-readable, and to pass them on to another controller when:
The processing is based on consent.
The processing is carried out by automated means.
– The right to lodge a complaint with the competent supervisory authority.
Data subjects may exercise the above rights by contacting ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. by writing to the following address: info@amaresidencesandalucia.com, indicating in the Subject line the right they wish to exercise.
In this sense, ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. will attend to your request as soon as possible and taking into account the deadlines set out in the regulations on data protection.
Security
The security measures adopted by ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. are those required, in accordance with Article 32 of the RGPD. In this sense, ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L., taking into account the state of the art, implementation costs and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals, has established the appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure the level of security appropriate to the existing risk.
In any case, ORANGE ANDALUSIA INVESTMENTS S.L. has implemented sufficient mechanisms to
a) To guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and permanent resilience of processing systems and services.
b) Restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner, in case of technical or physical incident.
c) Verify, evaluate and assess the effectiveness of technical and organisational measures implemented to guarantee the security of the processing.
d) Pseudonymize and encrypt personal data, when appropriate.
© AMA Residences Andalucía 2018 - | Legal Notices | Privacy Policy | Cookies Policy
Page load link
Our website uses cookies to improve your experience
We use our own and third-party cookies to improve our services by analysing your browsing habits and to be able to offer you the best experience based on your browsing habits and your profile. By clicking on the different options you can accept, reject or configure cookies. You can change your mind and customise your consent at any time by clicking on cookie settings. For more information you can visit our Cookies Policy.
Cookie SettingsAccept All
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Necessary
Necessary
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Other
Other
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Geleverd door IVS Inc. Neem contact met ons op
Van IVS Inc.
By submitting this form you accept to be contacted by IVS Inc. regarding your book a demo request . You may at any time withdraw your consent here. You will find IVS Inc.'s privacy policy hier . Also, you accept that Milestone Systems will after 7 days send you an email to make sure that you have been contacted by our partner. You can withdraw your consent from Milestone here.
Geleverd door Rank One Computing
By submitting this form you accept that IVS Inc. will receive your review and can publish it on their page. You may at any time withdraw your consent here. You will find IVS Inc.'s privacy policy hier .
Allow IVS Inc. to contact you regarding your review. You may at any time withdraw your consent here. You will find IVS Inc.'s privacy policy hier.
I accept that Milestone Systems A/S will collect and transfer my data to IVS Inc. for them to contact me back via email or by phone (if provided) to address my inquiry. IVS Inc. will handle the data in accordance with IVS Inc. Privacy Policy presented hier. I understand that at any time I can withdraw my consent by contacting IVS Inc..
