toronto toronto physiotherapy - Ace Physio
The science of physiotherapy is based upon an in-depth and clear understanding of the body and how it works, that includes motion, equilibrium and posture, expertise of traumas and conditions and recovering procedure. It is an all natural healing technique. Physical treatment or physiotherapy is a type of clinical solution made use of by individuals which have been affected by physical or emotional problems and illnesses. Physiotherapy Toronto unwinds the body and mind to ensure that every part of the body functions as it ought to. Programs are created by licensed and experienced physiotherapists relying on a client'& rsquo; s needs. Physiotherapy is most effective when the client closely co-operates in working with the specialist, household, friends and even pets. For the therapy to be a success a terrific support group is vital.
To relieve a patient from sharp pain or persisting injury tension, physiotherapy is the right therapy that makes sure people to buy rid of discomfort and come back the use of their arm or legs. In sporting activities physiotherapy is especially utilized for the bodily well being of the sports. Since physiotherapy heals the body and enhances health without using drugs and surgical treatment, it is the very best treatment for sportsperson. Sportsperson lean to muscular tissue, cells and ligament injuries. Acupuncture heals physical injury, restores function and boosts movement. It also aids to get to physical fitness goals, boosts flexibility and toughness and stops future trauma.
Acupuncture is an old and traditional type of Chinese procedure. It is an alternative type of clinical procedure utilized to alleviate discomfort and swelling of the joints, cells and muscular tissues. Acupuncture is a risk-free and reliable kind of therapy that is used to recover and stop diseases. Electric stimulation or warmth is used via many hair-thin needles that are inserted into the skin at certain acupuncture factors. These needles are delicately manipulated so that nerves, muscles and combinative cells obtain stimulated. Acupuncture Toronto encourages the physical body to heal normally and to boost the features of the physical body. Customers visit acupuncture facilities for a variety of factors that include comfort from pain and cosmetic treatment. Cosmetic treatments using acupuncture does away with and lowers creases and tightens up the skin. By stimulating the body'& rsquo; s collagen production, face skin tone can be normally enhanced. Acupuncture could aid in relieving pain in the back, neck, hips and migraine headaches. It is additionally an alternate option for disorders like excessive weight, skin illness, infertility, maternity and gynecological troubles, dependence to smoking cigarettes and stress and anxiety.
Medical - Pharma - Biotech - Medical Devices - Healthcare - Telemedicine - Healthcare Technology - Healthcare IT
Your Source For Worldwide Business and Financial Opportunities
​​
MedNews on financings, strategic relationships, products, services and technology, including launches
​
MedTalks videos featuring conversations with management of companies with business or financial objectives
​
Home
MedTalks Videos
MedNews
Marketing Program
AI Connect Marketing Program
Cross-Border Strategies
Our Marketing Process
BCI News Service
Contact Us
Management
Empowered Patient Podcasts
Disclaimer/Disclosure
More
Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
Search
Jan 21
4 min read
Yingli Pharma and MD Anderson partner for preclinical and clinical oncology programs
Yingli Pharma and MD Anderson Initiate Strategic Collaboration to Advance Development of Multiple Oncology Programs
Five-year collaboration to provide support for clinical and preclinical efforts as Yingli Pharma expands its U.S. presence with robust oncology pipeline
Yingli Pharma US, Inc. (the “Company” or “Yingli”), a biotechnology company developing innovative small molecules, and The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center today announced a strategic alliance to advance several oncology programs from preclinical discovery through clinical development. The five-year collaboration brings together Yingli’s experience in medicinal chemistry with MD Anderson’s comprehensive clinical and translational resources to drive existing Yingli therapeutic candidates into four U.S.-based clinical trials and to facilitate preclinical discovery and development in additional indications.
“This tremendous opportunity will accelerate our efforts as we look to bring new pharmacological agents to cancer patients in need," said Michael Hui, MBA, chief executive officer of Yingli. “We look forward to working with the experts at MD Anderson,
complementing our own expertise as we continue to build a well-rounded oncology pipeline.”
Two of the programs supported by the collaboration will leverage favorable clinical trial findings collected from China-based studies. The first program will focus on linperlisib, a PI3Kδ inhibitor with a novel structure, which has had positive results in eight active or completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials for patients with lymphomas and solid tumors, including peripheral T cell lymphoma (PTCL).
“We are pleased to be working with Yingli to initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating linperlisib in patients with PTCL,” said principal investigator Swaminathan Iyer, M.D., professor of Lymphoma & Myeloma at MD Anderson. “This collaboration brings a potentially effective treatment option with a favorable safety profile to the U.S. to address an unmet need for patients with this aggressive cancer. I look forward to leading this exciting study.”
The second program will develop YL-13027, a novel, oral TGFβR1 inhibitor for use in advanced solid tumors with plans to initiate a U.S.-based Phase 1 clinical trial in 2022, led by Jordi Rodon, M.D., Ph.D., associate professor of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics at MD Anderson.
“The TGFβ pathway is an important immune regulator in the tumor microenvironment, and new treatments focused on enhancing anti-tumor immunity are desperately needed,” Rodon said. “We look forward to working with Yingli to conduct the first U.S.-based clinical trial evaluating their TGFβR1 inhibitor.”
In addition to advancing existing clinical programs, the collaboration also will focus on translational studies to further Yingli’s discovery programs. The collaborative approach will provide a steady stream of new therapeutic candidates for oncology clinical development, which the MD Anderson team, including David S. Hong, M.D., deputy chair of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics, will investigate.
About Linperlisib Linperlisib (YY-20394) is a highly selective and potent PI3Kδ inhibitor that has shown a favorable safety profile, encouraging anti-tumor activities and promising PK and pharmaceutical properties as an oral once-a-day agent in late-stage clinical development. A Phase 1 clinical trial was completed in 2020 demonstrating linperlisib to be a safe and tolerable agent, and a recommended Phase 2 dose of 80 mg QD was established. Linperlisib was awarded NMPA Breakthrough Therapy status in China, leading to a Phase 2 study in follicular lymphoma (FL) that was completed and submitted in 2021 to China marketing authority for approval. In addition, linperlisib received FDA Orphan Drug Designations for FL, CLL/SLL and T cell lymphoma. Multiple linperlisib clinical trials being conducted in FL, PTCL, other lymphomas, solid tumors, combination with gemcitabine/oxaliplatin in r/r DLBC and combination with therapeutic PD1 antibody are underway in China and the U.S. Preliminary results of single agent linperlisib from a relapsed or recurrent PTCL Phase1b study were reported at ASCO 2021, indicating an overall response rate of 70% with 33% CRs for this difficult to treat and aggressive form of lymphoma.
About YL-13027 YL-13027 is a potent small molecule antagonist of TGFβR1 kinase in early-stage clinical development. The compound was optimized with selectivity against TGFβR2 and other kinases, differentiating YL-13027 from other inhibitors blocking TGFβ signaling. In preclinical studies, YL-13027 demonstrated anti-tumor efficacy, tumor immune modulation and combination benefit with immunotherapy. In IND-enabling studies, YL-13027 showed reliable dose-proportionality and pharmacokinetic properties, and the agent proved to be safe and tolerable in toxicity studies. The preliminary results of a Phase 1 dose escalation clinical trial of single agent YL-13027 were reported at ASCO 2021, including the safety and efficacy findings that the open-label study is continuing in order to establish a recommended Phase 2 dose of YL-13027.
About Yingli Yingli Pharma US, Inc. is headquartered in San Francisco, CA. Yingli is an innovative clinical stage biotechnology company that is developing best-in-class and first-in-class oral investigational agents for the treatment of cancer, metabolic and autoimmune diseases. In addition to linperlisib and YL-13027, Yingli has two other investigational agents in clinical development, including YL-15293, a novel selective inhibitor of KRAS G12C and YL-90148, an investigational oral URAT-1 inhibitor for the treatment of in hyperuricemia/gout. Several additional oncology programs are in IND-enabling or candidate development stages.
For more information about Yingli and the investigational agent portfolio, visit http://www.yl-pharma.com
About MD Anderson The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston ranks as one of the world's most respected centers focused on cancer patient care, research, education and prevention. The institution’s sole mission is to end cancer for patients and their families around the world. MD Anderson is one of only 51 comprehensive cancer centers designated by the National Cancer Institute (NCI). MD Anderson is No. 1 for cancer in U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” rankings. It has been named one of the nation’s top two hospitals for cancer since the rankings began in 1990. MD Anderson receives a cancer center support grant from the NCI of the National Institutes of Health (P30 CA016672).
The relationship between systolic blood pressure and cardiovascular risk--results of the Brisighella Heart Study. | Docphin
The relationship between systolic blood pressure and cardiovascular risk--results of the Brisighella Heart Study.
Claudio Borghi Ada Dormi Gilbert L'Italien Pablo Lapuerta Stanley S Franklin Stefano Collatina Antonio Gaddi
PubMedID: 12556653
Borghi C, Dormi A, L'Italien G, Lapuerta P, Franklin SS, Collatina S, Gaddi A. The relationship between systolic blood pressure and cardiovascular risk--results of the Brisighella Heart Study. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2003;5(1):47-52.
We examined the relationship of systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure, and pulse pressure to coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease risk in a prospective population-based European cohort. The Brisighella Heart Study included 2939 men and women between the ages of 14-84 without prior coronary heart disease or cerebrovascular disease and not taking antihypertensive therapy at baseline. Cox regression was used to obtain hazard ratios (HRs) for coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease as a function of baseline blood pressure parameters over a 23-year follow-up. Higher combined coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease risk was evident in comparison to the referent of <120 mm Hg, with a 44% increased risk at SBP 120-139 mm Hg (HR, 1.44; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.00-2.09; p=0.052), 76% increased risk at SBP 140-159 mm Hg (HR, 1.76; 95% CI, 1.16-2.69; p=0.009), and 109% increased risk at SBP >or=160 mm Hg (HR, 2.09; 95% CI, 1.31-3.35; p=0.0021). Trends of increasing risk with increasing levels of blood pressure were significant for SBP and pulse pressure, (p<0.0001) but not for DBP (p=0.058). In this European cohort, SBP was a stronger predictor of coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease events than DBP, and an increase in risk was already evident with high-normal SBP (120-139 mm Hg). The prognostic significance of pulse pressure was also demonstrated. The importance of SBP as seen in the Framingham Heart Study may be generalized to a European population with differences in diet and other risk factors.
The Black Swan Dental Spa takes a different approach to dentistry, offering traditional and cosmetic procedures in their comfortable spa. The caring and attentive team of professionals are focused on making every patient comfortable and relaxed and use the latest techniques to provide teeth whitening, alignment treatments, facial rejuvenation and more. They are open to clients across Somerset - call today for an appointment.
Thanks to our innovative modern day technology, there are now a wealth of non-surgical options such as our Botox in Austin that can beautifully restore a youthful, vibrant glow while helping to reduce unwanted wrinkles in the forehead and around the eyes.
Buccal Fat Removal in Long Island
doshiplasticsurgery.com
Cosmetic Surgery in Santa Barbara: Dr. Michael Morrissette
drmorrissette.com
Dr. Michael Morrissette provides various facial cosmetic surgery procedures in Santa Barbara, consistently helping his patients achieve beautiful, natural-looking results. Some of the popular cosmetic procedures Dr. Morrissette provides are facelift, rhinoplasty, hair restoration, blepharoplasty, and Juvederm injections.
Darren M. Smith, M.D. is a top NYC plastic surgeon specializing in aesthetic surgery of the face, breasts, and body.
The ED Treatment Information Center provides information, resources, help and support for erectile dysfunction sufferers and their partners. We post authoritative information on the causes and treatment of erectile dysfunction. Where ever possible, we include references and citations to clinical research to support the information we provide.
ENT Specialist Los Angeles | Dr. Mani Zadeh
Flexible Health offers professional advice from a dedicated team of specialists designed to help clients choose the best insurance policy. From life and family protection to business protection insurance, Flexible Health gives advice on a range of policies to suit you. They will work with you throughout the entire process to ensure that you have the right level of cover in the event of an emergency.
Lipoma Doctor Los Angeles
lipomacenterlosangeles.com
Liposuction in NYC at Scarpidis Aesthetics
Reduce unwanted pockets of fat from various parts of the body with liposuction in NYC. Dr. Scarpidis specializes in performing liposuction for the abdomen, arms, back, buttocks, hips, chest, and thighs.
Professional Hair Extensions Australian designed lusciouslox is the leader in Nano hair extension sydney technology. This advanced system is specifically engineered to provide the smallest reusable hair extension procedure. The Lusciouslox ring is up to 90% smaller and less detectable than any other ring system. This is the world's smallest micro ring/tube system designed to provide maximum undetectability and camouflage.
medicalappraisals.org.uk
Medical Revalidation & Appraisal services for Doctors, General Practitioners & NHS Staff. Our goal is to provide a cost effective doctor & GP appraisals & medical revalidation service to our doctors in line with the requirements of the UK National Health Service (NHS). Our appraiser is impartial, conscientious with over 5 years experience appraising medical staff in the United Kingdom, Asia and globally around the world. Our medical revalidation discussions are confidential.
Patient Care Medical - Catheters & Accessories
Patient Care Medical carries a wide selection of intermittent catheters and accessories in female, male, and pediatric sizes. We deliver our products across the United States and Puerto Rico and can provide free samples upon request.
Plastic Surgeon in Westchester NY - Dr. Maura Reinblatt
drreinblatt.com
Double board-certified plastic surgeon, Dr. Maura Reinblatt, provides cosmetic enhancements in Westchester, NY. Whether you are looking to get breast augmentation, liposuction, or BOTOX, Dr. Reinblatt consistently delivers beautiful, natural-looking results.
Radiology in Jacksonville
insite-radiology.com
At Insite Radiology, our imaging center at the St. Johns Town Center, Jacksonville has re-invented the diagnostic imaging experience.
The Sussex Foot Centre provides specialist care for patients of all ages that are affected by problems with feet, ankles or knees. All podiatrists are registered with the Health & Care Professionals Council (HCPC) as well as the Society of Chiropodists and Podiatrists. Their services include treatment for chronic plantar heel pain, shin splints, ingrown nails, athlete's foot and more.
hVIVO are an industry leading clinical development services business pioneering human disease models based upon viral and allergen challenge. hVIVO is pioneering a human-based clinical trial platform to accelerate drug and vaccine development in respiratory and infectious diseases. Leveraging human disease models in flu, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), human rhinovirus (HRV) and respiratory indications, the hVIVO platform captures disease in motion, illuminating the entire disease cycle.
Altering eye cells may one day restore vision - Healthcanal.com : Healthcanal.com
05:33am Thursday 23 November 2017
Home Eyes and Vision Altering eye cells may one day restore vision
1:35 January 25, 2013
Joseph Corbo, MD, PhD
The light-sensing cells of the eye are the top purple and pink layers in these images. The cells on the left have been reprogrammed to make them less vulnerable to the degenerative effects of retinitis pigmentosa. As a result, more have survived compared to the untreated cells in the right image.
Corbo, MD, PhD
"We think it may be significantly easier to preserve vision by modifying existing cells in the eye than it would be to introduce new stem cells," says senior author Joseph Corbo, MD, PhD, assistant professor of pathology and immunology. "A diseased retina is not a hospitable environment for transplanting stem cells."
'"The question was, when retinitis pigmentosa is caused by a mutation in a protein only active in rods, can we reduce or stop vision loss by making the cells less rod-like?" he explains.
"In adult mice, switching off Nrl partially converts the rod cells into cone cells," he says. "Several months later, when the mutant mice normally had very little vision left, we tested the function of their retina."
Washington University School of Medicine's 2,100 employed and volunteer faculty physicians also are the medical staff of Barnes-Jewish and St. Louis Children's hospitals. The School of Medicine is one of the leading medical research, teaching and patient care institutions in the nation, currently ranked sixth in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. Through its affiliations with Barnes-Jewish and St. Louis Children's hospitals, the School of Medicine is linked to BJC HealthCare​.
Montana CL, Kolesnikov AV, Shen SQ, Myers CA, Kefalov VJ, Corbo JC. Reprogramming of adult rod photoreceptors prevents retinal degeneration. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, online January 14, 2013.
Funding from the National Eye Institute (EY018826 and EY019312), an Institutional Vision Science Training Grant (EY13360) and a grant from Research to Prevent
CORE SEMINAR CALENDAR 2011 - 2012
SPRING CORE SEMINAR CALENDAR 2012
Spring Semester at The Institute for Quantitative Social Science at the Center for Government and International Studies (CGIS), South Building, 1730 Cambridge Street, Cambridge and at the Department of Health Care Policy, Boston.
Most of the seminars are during lunchtime on Thursdays. Check back for newly added seminars and to confirm location and times. Lunch will be served at noon and the talks begin at 12:30 pm.
March 7, 2012, Wed.
S-050, 2:00 - 4:00 pm
Eric Patashnik, Professor of Public Policy and Politics, and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs at the Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy University of Virginia.
"Doctor Knows Best: Physician Endorsements, Public Opinion, and the Politics of Comparative Effectiveness Research"
March 22, 2012, Thur.
S-450, Noon - 2:00 pm
Brigham Frandsen, Robert Wood Johnson Scholar of Cohort 17. Frandsen will be joining the Economics Department at Brigham Young University in the fall.
"The Costs of Fragmentation and the Limitations of Pay-for-Performance"
March 29, 2012, Thur.
S-450, 12:30 - 2:00 pm
Tiffany Joseph, Robert Wood Johnson Scholar of Cohort 18. Joseph received her Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Michigan in 2011, conducting her dissertation research in Governador Valadares, Brazil where she examined how US migration influenced Brazilian return migrants' perceptions of race in the US and Brazil. Her current project integrates immigration and health policy by exploring how documentation status influences the health outcomes and healthcare access of Latino immigrants in the Boston metropolitan area. After program completion, she will begin an Assistant Professor of Sociology position at Stony Brook University.
"What Difference Do Papers Make?: Documentation Status and Healthcare Access and Utilization among Latino Immigrants"
April 5, 2012, Thur.
S-450, 12:30 - 2:00 pm Benjamin Hertzberg, Robert Wood Johnson Scholar of Cohort 18. Hertzberg received at Ph.D. in Political Science from Duke University in 2011 where he was a Kenan Institute Graduate Fellow in Ethics and an Andrew W. Mellon Fellow in Humanistic Studies.
"Public Religion and the Epistemic Benefits of Democratic Deliberation"
April 12, 2012, Thur.
Robert Saldin, Robert Wood Johnson Scholar of Cohort 17. Saldin is currently an Assistant Professor of Political Science.
"The Rise and Fall of the Affordable Care Act's CLASS Program"
April 19, 2012, Thur.
Michael Sauder, Robert Wood Johnson Scholar of Cohort 17. Sauder is currently on leave from the University of Iowa, where he is an Associate Professor in the Sociology Department.
"The Effects and Effectiveness of Patient Experience Surveys"
April 26, 2012, Thur.
S-450, 12:30 - 2:00 pm Neale Mahoney, Robert Wood Johnson Scholar of Cohort 18. Mahoney received a Ph.D. in economics at Stanford University in 2011. In his dissertation, he examined the implicit health insurance households received from the ability to declare bankruptcy, the effects of supplemental Medigap insurance on overall medical utilization, and the efficiency consequences of community-rating regulations. After completing the Scholars Program, he will join the faculty at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business.
"The Psychological Roots of Price Dispersion: A Proposed Medigap Field Experiment"
May 9, 2012, Wed.
2:30 pm, S-250
Robert Sampson, Henry Ford II Professor of the Social Sciences;
Director of the Social Sciences Program at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study.
"Neighborhood Effects and Well-Being"
Please note room, time and day change.
IMMERSION SEMINAR CALENDAR 2011; For Cohorts XVIII only
S-450, 12 - 1pm Orientation to Harvard Systems with Sage Kochavi.
Aug 25, Thurs.
S-450 12 - 1 pm
Kathy Swartz, Orientation to Harvard RWJ
Aug 30, Tues
Kathy Swartz, Immersion: Topics in Health Policy Research
Aug 31, Wed.
Sept 6, Tues
Sept 7, Wed
Sept 13, Tues
Sept 14, Wed
S-450 12 - 2 pm Kathy Swartz, Immersion: Topics in Health Policy Research
Sept 20, Tues
180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Conference Room 224D , 12 -1:30 pm
Please note location and day change. Michael Chernew, Immersion: MedPAC
Sept 27, Tues
K-105 9 - 11 am Please note location and day change. Kathy Swartz, Immersion: Topics in Health Policy Research
Fall Core Seminars will generally meet on Tuesdays, 12:00 - 2:00 pm (lunch available 12:00 pm, seminar begins at 12:30 pm). Please RSVP.
Oct 11, Tues
Jennifer Hochschild, Henry LaBarre Jayne Professor of Government and Professor of African and African American Studies, Governerment Department Harvard University
"The Politics and Ideology of Genomic Science in Medicine, Law, and Race"
Nov 1, Tues
S-450, 12:30 -1:30 pm
(Lunch available
at 12:00)
Patricia Strach, Assistant Professor in the Departments of Political Science and Public Administration at the University of Albany. Her research examines the relationship between social and political institutions in American public policy. She is the author of All in the Family: The Private Roots of American Public Policy (Stanford, 2007) and articles appearing in Political Research Quarterly, Journal of Policy History, Polity, and American Politics Research. In 2008-2010 she was a member of Cohort 15 of the Robert Wood Johnson Scholar in Health Policy Research at Harvard University. Strach received her doctorate in Political Science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2004.
"Choosing Politics: Health Advocacy in Government and Industry"
K-354, 9 - 11 am
Please note location, day & time change
Richard Frank, Margaret T. Morris Professor of Health Economics in the Department of Health Care Policy at Harvard Medical School
"CLASS Dismissed: A Health Policy Autopsy"
Week of Nov 21 No seminar, Thanksgiving Break
James Morone is Professor of Political Science at Brown University. His most recent book, The Heart of Power: Health and Politics in the Oval Office (written with David Blumenthal, MD) was featured on the front page of the New York Times Book Review last September 6. According to unreliable sources, it has been read by President Obama. Morone has written over 150 scholarly articles and essays. He has testified before the US Congress numerous times -- most recently in January, 2009 when he addressed the newly elected members of Congress on health reform. Morone is the only scholar to receive two Senior Investigator Awards from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
"Presidents and Health Reform From FDR to Obama: Or the dirty rotten secrets of health reform"
Dec 15, Thurs
Please note day & time change
Ken Chay, Professor in Deptartments of Economics of Community Health, Brown University, and NBER Research Associate.
Scientific Concepts and Research Design | UAMS Translational Research Institute
Topics: Scientific Concepts and Research Design
The objectives of this course are to: describe the basics of hypothesis testing; compare and contrast t-tests, paired t-tests, and chi-square tests; and list factors to consider when determining when...
Tracy Mehan, Nationwide Children's Hospital, talks about changing the way we talk about research and accessibility. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AozDsrWzgIQ&feature=youtu.be
To Resubmit or Not – When Your Proposal Isn't Funded
This seminar and panel discussion will focus on best practices for surviving peer review and successfully resubmitting an NIH proposal. Seasoned PIs will review reasoning and rationale behind changes...
This toolkit is intended to be a resource for researchers, health care providers and the community who are interested in conducting community-engaged research. This community partnership toolkit outl...
The Role of Machine Learning in Predictive and Causal Inference
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=po2qo-PDuns&list=PL0UcWim64fqnDLMaWNVPJJkpQRyfqaV5u&index=6
Mixed Methods (2 of 4): The Qualitative Research Process: Study Designs for Health Services Research
The objectives of this course are to: identify core components of a qualitative study design, including the importance of a primary research question and approach to the study; determine the appropri...
Clinical trial feasibility – it's a standard part of recruitment planning and essential for predicting enrollment success. Yet so often it's easy to get wrong, putting timelines and budget at risk. A...
COALESCE is a free online team science educational resource developed by Northwestern University researchers and designed to foster cross-disciplinary, collaborative research in the health sciences. ...
In this half-day course, experts from Brown's School of Public Health will discuss: The role and value of systematic reviews, the basic steps involved in conducting a systematic review, and how th...
What is stakeholder and community engagement (SCE), and why is it important? Learn the benefits, strategies, and methods at Stakeholder Engagement in Patient-Centered Comparative Effectiveness Resear...
When you spend most of your research in a lab, the idea of engaging stakeholders in research may not seem tangible or practical. In this course, Thomas Concannon, PhD, Co-Director of Tufts CTSI Stake...
"Role of Calibration in Uncertainty-based Referral for Deep Learning" & "Supervised Machine Learning Workflows for Electronic Health Records"
Ruotao Zhang, MSc: "Role of Calibration in Uncertainty-based Referral for Deep Learning" The uncertainty in predictions from deep neural network analysis of medical imaging is challenging to assess b...
This workshop covers the ins & outs of using REDCap for e-consenting research participants and provides a guided demonstration of the e-Consent template. Participants will learn how to design and...
REDCap is designed to be largely self-taught when it comes to the basics. We strongly recommend you view some of the available introductory videos noted below before taking one of our REDCap classes....
This webinar clears up the common misconception that REDCap randomizes your participants for you (Spoiler: it doesn't), and gives you all the tools you need to use the randomization module with your ...
This talk focuses on clinical research in rare diseases. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3VNIm8bmxUQ
Qualitative Methods Series "The Power of Designing with Patients"
"The Power of Designing with Patients" Presented by Aaron J. Horowitz Co-Founder & CEO, Sproutel. Aaron is a maker; from sculptures to business, he is fascinated with the process of taking an ide...
Learn how to make your research patient-centered, and find out how engagement fits into your research process at Preparing for Patient-Centered and Stakeholder-Engaged Research. Thomas Concannon, PhD...
This talk reviews methods and issues in precision medicine. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VymkM5KZkDc
Practice Oriented Research Training (PORT)
The Practice Oriented Research Training program (PORT) was developed to meet the needs of practicing clinicians who want to become competent and active members of the research enterprise. The program...
This lecture provides researchers with practical guidance for carrying out and evaluating multi-stakeholder engaged research projects. The material presented can assist researchers to consider more s...
Pediatric Disease and Clinical Trials Click here to download course slides.
The content in this course was presented on April 18, 2018 in Washington, D.C., as part of the Association for Clinical and Translational Science (ACTS) 2018 meeting. This course requires enrollme...
The purpose of this workshop is to assist Research Professionals in improving their skills and their understanding of the responsibilities of conducting oncology clinical research. The goal will be a...
Office for Human Subjects Protection Core Training – Module 7 Investigational Products
The goal of the core training modules is to cultivate advanced understanding of research topics. Each of the ten learning modules covers a different topic area. View course here.
Office for Human Subjects Protection Core Training – Module 5 Recruitment and Retention
The objectives of this course are to: define survival analysis Explain how time-to-event data is different from other data, discuss the differences between Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox regression, ide...
This training will discuss prioritizing resources and go over the question "are we studying what matters?" This course requires enrollment in Tufts CTSI iLearn. Enroll in course here.
The course objectives are to: determine when regression should be used, describe the differences between linear and logistic regression, discuss basic assumptions of linear and logistic regression, i...
Investigational Drugs and Devices (IND / IDE) Assistance
This online course is intended to provide access to training and continuing education that will promote quality clinical research, protect the welfare of research participants and improve global heal...
Presented by: Carsten Eickhoff, PhD, assistant professor of medical and computer science at Brown University This talk introduces the basic components of machine learning systems and research papers ...
Recorded 2009 Presenter: Tani Prestage Objectives- Learn about regulations and ethical principles for human subjects research; Clarify differences between what is human subjects research and what is ...
The Michigan Institute for Clinical & Translational Research (MICHR) provides supplemental training on the basics of electronic informed consent. This self-guided course is about the process of u...
This course outlines basic concepts and terminology in the design of clinical/translational research projects targeting specific populations, and discusses methods to identify useful study population...
The first section of this video lecture series discusses the process of developing a conceptual and statistical model that can most effectively test a hypothesis. The second section describes the rol...
In the first section, lectures cover potential sources of bias that can occur at all stages of research, and how to mitigate their impact on findings. The second section focuses on analysis of data i...
This course introduces the mission and processes of Clinical and Translational Research (CTR). It demonstrates approaches to formulating and writing research questions and hypotheses appropriate to C...
Interpretable Individualized Treatment Rules Using Decision Lists
Presented by Yichi Zhang, PhD, assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Statistics at the University of Rhode Island. Precision medicine is currently a topic of great interest in...
The International Council for Harmonisation (ICH) published a revision to GCP E6 based on feedback from the global clinical research community, advancements in technology and risk management developm...
Managing COVID-19 requires accurate up to date data on new cases, contact tracing and case management. Managing epidemic diseases is a core function of health systems in many low and middle income co...
I2S2 Seminar Series: Clinical Decision Support Deconstructed – What Works? How Does It Work? What's New? Featuring Jonathan Teich, MD, PhD. Clinical decision support (CDS) provides clinicians and pat...
I2S2 covers the breadth of topics in effectively using data and technology to advance biomedical discovery and healthcare delivery. Each learning activity (seminar, journal club, workshop, or tutoria...
I2S2 Seminar: Clinical AI From Time Series to Free Text
Data-driven clinical decision making, e.g., via machine learning, holds considerable promise for evidence based medicine. This session will present three ongoing advances from BCBI's AI Lab that tack...
Tamekia Smith, Nationwide Children's Hospital, discusses issues of health disparities and the need for mentoring and issues of health equity and social determinants of health. https://www.youtube...
Fundamentals of Clinical and Translational Science (FunCaTS) is a combination of 13 online modules strategically packaged together to enable medical professionals and allied health staff to expand th...
The objectives of this course are: outline approach to formulating structured, clinically-relevant research questions; highlight importance of evidence based approach to critically evaluating scienti...
This course presents expert discussion held in 2016 on NIH Rigor and Transparency Guidelines, led by John Castellot, PhD, Tufts CTSI Navigator and NIH Study Section Chair, and Amy Gantt, MA, Tufts Un...
The objectives of this course are: identify if a research study is observational or experimental, describe when to use an observational study design versus an experimental study design, discuss the d...
The objectives of this course are to: define the categories of exempt research, review the exempt review process, and review examples of research that is and is not exempt. View course here.
The objectives of this course are to: identify the specific, testable hypotheses of the study; identify the study design; determine how the data were collected; evaluate whether the results were affe...
Engaging Patients through Technology – Advancing the Intersection of Consumer Health Informatics and Implementation Science
Engaging Patients through Technology - Advancing the Intersection of Consumer Health Informatics and Implementation Science presented by Timothy Hogan, PhD. Patient-facing technologies, including mhe...
The objectives of this course are to: define a research protocol, explain the difference between a protocol and a proposal, list the steps in planning a study, identify potential issues in implementi...
This module describes who can assist you in developing and writing the protocol, the contents of the protocol elements, and tips for specific types of studies. View course here.
More and more, grant proposals are requesting researchers to ensure that they have worked with or plan to integrate the community into their research proposal. One approach to this is to develop a co...
Mixed Methods (3 of 4): Designing a Mixed Methods Study
The objectives of this course are: describe how a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods can contribute to answering research questions, identify ways to combine quantitative and qualita...
Many users are not aware that they can choose what their database looks like in REDCap -- the key is to make those choices before you get started using REDCap's features. https://www.youtube.com/...
Cross-Study Machine Learning Techniques: Reproducibility and Differences Across Studies
Presented by Roberta De Vito, PhD, assistant professor of biostatistics and data science at Brown University. Biostatistics and computational biology are increasingly facing the urgent challenge of e...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JSvg5eZ6A9w&list=PLkw6pa7n2OjX1AnXcG0L_5IAvNEvkyusp
In this video, an SC CTSI specialist introduces the basic characteristics of community-engaged research and the rationale for this research approach, including the development of health solutions amo...
This course has been established to develop an internationally accepted standard of knowledge and understanding of the research process and related regulations, as well as medical and scientific area...
In this talk, Professor Savova will position the latest developments in clinical Natural Language Processing (NLP) in the context of the explosive achievements in the broader NLP field. How can clini...
Robert Strouse, Nationwide Children's Hospital, discusses how failure in research is not negative, lessons learned from research failure helps us learn and move forward. https://www.youtube.com/w...
The objectives of this course are to: explain the role of chance in sampling a population, describe what parameters affect sample size, list online resources for sample size calculators, and perform ...
Bluffing Cancer: Story of Drug Discovery
Dr. Tim Cripe, Nationwide Children's Hospital, discusses issues related to drug discovery in cancer research. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vuhQy06cekg&feature=youtu.be
Biostatistics Core Seminar Series: "Experimental Study Design", Advance-CTR
Advantages and disadvantages of experimental studies, individual vs. group trials, preventive vs. therapeutic trials, parallel RCTs, factorial study design, new drug trials, sources of potential bias...
Biostatistics Core Seminar Series: "Cohort Studies & Case-Control Studies", Advance-CTR
Advantages and disadvantages of cohort studies, prospective vs. retrospective cohorts, types of analyses used in cohort studies, sources of potential bias Advantages and disadvantages of case-cont...
Biostatistics Core Seminar: "Inference with Categorical Variables", Advance-CTR, Brown University
Topic: Inference with categorical variables: Contingency tables, degrees of freedom, chi-square, fisher's exact test https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rADdSnz9QD4
Biostatistics Core Seminar: "Hypothesis Testing", Advance-CTR, Brown University
Topic: Hypothesis TestingNull hypotheses, type I and II error, significance level, power, basic sample size calculation https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ocOjN_PSPgs
Interested in learning about novel data analysis methods and tools for addiction research? To better understand the science of addiction disorders, the research community needs continuous development...
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) is an international ethical and scientific quality standard for designing, conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials. The principles of GCP help assure the safe...
In this two day workshop presented by the American Statistical Association (ASA), Hawai'i Chapter at University of Hawai'i at Mānoa on June 5 & 6, 2019, Christopher H. Schmid, PhD presents on the...
Bedside Nursing – The Journey from Point A to Point B: How to get from Clinical Inquiry to Conducting Nursing Research
This online course is intended to define three types of clinical inquiry: evidence based practice (EBP), quality improvement (QI), and research. Steps nurses can take to move from having a practice i...
This online course will provide information on the purpose and components of a research protocol and helpful strategies for writing a protocol draft with an Institutional Review Board reviewer's pers...
Mixed Methods (4 of 4): Applying Mixed Methods Effectively
The objective of this course is to: summarize the study design used in a mixed methods research study, explain the rationale for using a mixed methods approach, identify the tools employed in a mixed...
Mixed Methods (1 of 4): An Introduction to Mixed Methods
The objectives of this course are to determine which sessions in this seminar series will be helpful to you and to identify potential opportunities for mixed methods approaches in health services res...
The objectives of this course are to: define the purpose of survey research, describe key considerations in designing a survey instrument, identify types of questions and response options to gather r...
This short course provides an overview of two common implementation frameworks used in grant proposals, RE-AIM (the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance Framework) and CFIR...
Applying Concept Mapping Methodology To Understand Resilience Resources Among African Americans Living With HIV In The Southern United States
Advance-CTR Qualitative Methods Series "Applying Concept Mapping Methodology To Understand Resilience Resources Among African Americans Living With HIV In The Southern United States" Presented by Aki...
This is a peer-reviewed article by Beth Harper of ACRP that provides a comprehensive picture of training and education in clinical research, professional roles, identities and competencies in clinica...
Advance-CTR Qualitative Methods Series "An Introduction to Rapid Ethnography: Its Applications and Utility in Public Health Research" Presented by Alexandra Collins, PhD Postdoctoral Research Associa...
Advanced REDCap: Longitudinal Survey Studies virtual workshop with Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH. This class is for intermediate to advanced users (prerequisite: Introduction to REDCap) This class covers...
Addicted to Love: Babies born with opioid addiction
Dr. Barry Halpern, Nationwide Children's Hospital, discusses his experiences with treating opioid addicted neonates, understanding addition in this Ted Talk. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGGcw...
Amputation and phantom limb pain | Rosenthal & Kreeger LLP
On behalf of Rosenthal & Kreeger LLP posted in Personal Injury on Friday, August 18, 2017.
Amputation injuries are not uncommon after a catastrophic car accident that results in severe damage to a leg or arm. If you have suffered the amputation of a limb as a result of a car accident, you are no doubt struggling to adjust to post-amputation life. One thing you could be dealing with in this regard is what doctors refer to as "phantom limb" pain.
Phantom limb pain is exactly what it sounds like. Your leg or arm hurts and aches constantly, even though it's not even there. This condition can be very difficult to deal with psychologically and the pain is real. Here's how you might be able to treat the condition:
Mirror box therapy: Mirror box therapy can be enormously beneficial in many cases. Patients observe themselves receiving physical therapy via a mirror. This helps the brain remap the fact that it doesn't have the limb anymore and it can resolve phantom pain problems.
Local injection: Doctors may inject a pain reliever into the site of the amputation. The pain reliever can serve to interrupt pain signals that are being sent by the nerve endings in this region.
Non-opiate analgesic therapies: Prescription pain medications might also help to interrupt the pain signals that the nerve endings are sending.
Deep brain stimulation therapy: In this therapy, patients get electrodes placed directly on their brain's surface. By sending electrical impulses it can interrupt the nerve to brain pain signals.
Nerve cuff stimulation: With nerve cuff stimulation, an electrical nerve stimulator makes contact with the nerves going through the amputation site. Instead of blocking nerve signals, it seeks to send pleasant nerve signals to the brain. This serves to replace the negative sensation with a positive one.
The above therapies for phantom limb pain are costly. Fortunately, amputation victims hurt by a negligent or unlawful party may be able to pursue compensation in court to get money to pay for these and other vital therapies they require.
Biomedical Science MSc at Glasgow Caledonian University
This programme enables biomedical scientists currently employed in NHS pathology service labs to attain greater expertise and advance to the next stage of their careers. This course is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS). With part-time study, the programme takes two to three years to complete.
Through this programme, hospital laboratory employees can progress through Agenda for Change bandings and fulfil the required qualifications to become a Chartered Scientist (CSci). The curriculum uses an integrated systems approach to study disease. You'll build a strong foundation through broad inquiry: Advanced study of pathophysiology; Laboratory management and research methods; Research planning.
This career-focused programme helps working scientists advance to a leadership level. You'll learn about the latest developments in the field, explore cutting-edge findings and their implications for the future and gain hands-on skills in quality and laboratory management. The programme's real-world relevant curriculum means graduates are fully prepared for success as top-level leaders. Our alumni bring a global outlook - and a focus on the common good - to make meaningful change wherever they go.
We use a wide range of learning and teaching methods to ensure that you have both the necessary knowledge and understanding of business and management and a portfolio of intellectual and personal skills. Each module on the programme uses its own learning, teaching and assessment strategy to achieve learning objectives. Assessment methods vary between modules and may include unseen examinations, class tests, essays, management reports, case studies, presentations, and group work.
Pathobiology A
Pathobiology B
Pathobiology C
Research Methods for Biomedical Science
Students need to have IBMS accredited BSc Honours degree at 2:2 or above in biomedical science or applied biomedical science; Honours degree at 2:2 or above in a biological science subject and additional study as determined on application to the Registration Unit of the IBMS; or professional qualification of equivalent status. Students should be currently employed as a biomedical scientist in an NHS pathology service laboratory and applicants desiring to undertake the Specialist Portfolio module should hold IBMS membership.
Hemostasis And Tissue Sealing Agents Market Growth & Industry Analysis | Optima Insights
OI-153
Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents are an important part of the management of bleeding within the damaged blood vessels in surgical procedures. This is mainly used in medicine that includes chronic conditions to control excessive bleeding, ophthalmic injuries or replacements, burns, neurosurgeries, urological disorder, hernia fixation surgery, orthopedic surgery, and spinal injury. These agents permit rapid hemostasis, better Visualization of the surgical area, decreased the requirement for transfusions, decreased wound healing time shorter operative times, and an overall improvement in patient recovery time.
The Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market was valued at $ 2.12 bn in 2018 and is forecasted to grow at a strong 9.21% CAGR between 2018 and 2026, resulting in 2026 global sales of $ 4.29. Market-driven by growing demand for faster recovery by patients and increasing number surgical procedures are some of the components boosting the market. However, strict regulatory policies coupled with the high cost of the products and risk of complications are some of the components hampering the growth of the market. Moreover, investing in emerging economies provides a good platform for companies to record high revenue will provide lucrative opportunities for the market.
Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market depending on the product, adhesives, and sealants segment is dominated due to controlling blood loss during surgeries and it functions by binding with and sealing the harmed tissues. Binding leads to the advancement of a hindrance over the injuries & surgical wound and advances coagulation. The aspects helping their demand over sutures are a minimal invasion, quicker procedure rate, reduced post-surgical infections, and anticipation of exudation of other body fluids.
On 9th April 2019, Baxter International has received the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for faster preparation of its leading hemostatic product, Floseal Hemostatic Matrix. This next generation of Floseal has 20 percent fewer components and steps to prepare, making it a faster and convenient for usage.
The Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market are segmented based on the product, type, application, end-user, and regions.
Based on the Product: Topical Hemostat and Adhesive & tissue sealant
Based on the Type: Titanium, Steel, Stainless Steel, Composite Material, Nickel Material, and Zirconium
Based on the Application: Minimally Invasive Surgery and General Surgery
Based on the End User: Hospitals and Ambulatory Centers
Based on the Region: North America, Asia-Pacific, Europe, and LAMEA. Among that Asia Pacific region is projected to witness high growth during the forecast period due to rapid growth in the surgery volume brought about by the introduction of medical tourism emerging economies such as India, China and Singapore and this countries with presence of relatively more developed healthcare infrastructure, advanced treatments, and large pool of patients.
The key players of the Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market include Becton, Dickinson and Company, B. Braun Melsungen AG, Ethicon Inc, Medtronic plc, Smith & Nephew plc, Stryker Corporation, Zimmer Biomet, Z-Medica LLC, Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc, Pfizer, Baxter, etc..
Report Description: The report covers an in-depth analysis of the Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market. The report assesses the market products pipeline by-product (Topical Hemostat and Adhesive & tissue sealant), by type (Titanium, Steel, Stainless Steel, Composite Material, Nickel Material, and Zirconium), by application (Minimally Invasive Surgery and General Surgery) by end-user (Hospitals and Ambulatory Centers). In addition, the report includes key insights on other development activities, including (but not limited to) – licensing (In and Out), collaborations, acquisitions, reimbursement, patent, and regulatory designations.
The report includes in-depth company profiles of key players in the Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market. The company profile includes key information on the overview, financial highlights, product portfolio, business strategies, and key recent developments.
Provides detailed analysis of the market structure along with forecast of the various segments and sub-segments of the Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market
Provides key information on players involved in the Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market
Provides a complete overview of market segments and the regional outlook of Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market
Provides in-depth coverage of key news related to Global Hemostasis and Tissue Sealing Agents Market, including major mergers and acquisitions and product development updates such as clinical trial progression updates and regulatory updates
