In terms of our environment many scientists claim we are too clean of a society. Exposure to germs and bacteria (within good reason) can strengthen our microbiomes. It’s important to spend time outside, play with dirt, and play with animals, these all help establish a healthy gut.
Medication, over-the-counter painkillers, and drugs used to treat infections can all alter the microbiome. Antibiotics prescribed to kill harmful bacteria are effective when you’re sick and need help ridding yourself of bad bacteria, but in accomplishing this, they also tend to destroy the good bacteria. Even one dose of a commonly prescribed antibiotic can wipe out microbial diversity for up to one month! Of course, antibiotics are necessary at time, but remember to give your gut a little extra love following such treatment.
When your microbiome is out of balance symptoms such as bloating, gas, diarrhoea, stomach pain, or nausea is present letting you know your gut isn’t working. Most of the time the imbalances fix themselves but if it becomes chronic, it might require medical diagnosis and treatment.
KPMG seeking Lead Specialist, Federal Data Scientist - G2Xchange FedCiv
Home KPMG seeking Lead Specialist, Federal Data Scientist
KPMG seeking Lead Specialist, Federal Data Scientist
April 6, 2021 April 6, 2021 | Jobs
"KPMG is currently seeking a Lead Specialist to join our Federal Advisory practice."
Lead Data Science and Machine Learning intensive engagements with a primary focus on client delivery and project management of teams with Data Scientists, Data Engineers, Business Consultants and translate advanced business analytics problems into technical approaches that yield actionable recommendations, in diverse domains (product development, marketing research, supply chain, technology process, and public policy)
Undertake necessary statistical analysis using Natural Language Processing to mine unstructured data, using a variety of methods (document clustering, topic analysis, names entity recognition, document classification, and sentiment analysis) as part of the overall Machine Learning initiative set forth for the engagement
Analyze structured and unstructured data, understand and implement algorithms, and support analysis using advanced statistical and mathematical methods form emerging areas in pattern analysis, machine learning, deep learning, data mining, econometrics, and operations research …"
G2X TAKE: This global accounting, advisory and professional services firm is seeking an IT professional to lead Lead Data Science and Machine Learning intensive engagements, leveraging Natural Language Processing to mine unstructured data, using a variety of methods as part of an overall ML initiative.
Tags: Data Machine Learning (ML)
Deloitte wins $166M State Department Program Management Support Services taskReport: Civilian Agency Contracts Awarded or Announced - March 2021
Tagged: data, Machine Learning (ML)
This topic contains 0 replies, has 1 voice, and was last updated by Heather Seftel-Kirk 1 week, 3 days ago.
New Health Institute Focuses On Research, Health Care Funding | YPR
New Health Institute Focuses On Research, Health Care Funding
Published July 16, 2020 at 4:46 PM MDT
Montana is now home to a public health institute. The Montana Public Health Institute is one of about 40 such institutes across the country. The nonprofit will work to bolster the state's public health system by bringing policy analysis and funding to county and tribal health departments.
The Montana Public Health Institute was backed by a five-year, $1.85 million grant from the Montana Healthcare Foundation.
Former Flathead County Public Health Officer Hillary Hanson is serving as the Montana Health Institute's Chief Operating Officer and first employee. Hanson says the effort to form the institute was underway before the coronavirus pandemic.
"And I think for the Montana Public Health Institute, COVID is really going to be our starting story."
Hanson says public health institutes around the country all do different things to strengthen public health systems from providing training support to local health departments to helping small departments apply for and manage grants.
Montana's institute will focus primarily on leveraging funding to help county and tribal health departments and others in the state's health system carry out local or statewide public health initiatives.
"The second piece we're really looking at is the health policy component and wanting to put together neutral, non-partisan research assessment and analysis on public health issues," Hanson says.
That could look like analyzing local health departments' response to COVID-19 cases in their community to find out what went well and what did not. That analysis could provide guidance for future responses or may be used to educate state and local lawmakers who can then implement policy or provide more funding to aid public health workers.
The institute will focus on more than just the coronavirus pandemic. One of its first projects aims to bolster mental and behavioral health services across the state.
Preventing Chronic Disease | The Impact of New York City's Health Bucks Program on Electronic Benefit Transfer Spending at Farmers Markets, 2006–2009 - CDC
Suggested citation for this article: Baronberg S, Dunn L, Nonas C, Dannefer R, Sacks R. The Impact of New York City's Health Bucks Program on Electronic Benefit Transfer Spending at Farmers Markets, 2006–2009. Prev Chronic Dis 2013;10:130113. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5888/pcd10.130113.
New York City's Health Bucks Program provides SNAP recipients with a $2 coupon for every $5 spent using SNAP benefits at participating farmers markets. We analyzed approximately 4 years of electronic benefit transfer (EBT) sales data, from July 2006 through November 2009, to develop a preliminary assessment of the effect of the Health Bucks Program on EBT spending at participating markets.
Farmers markets that offered Health Bucks coupons to SNAP recipients averaged higher daily EBT sales than markets without the incentive ($383.07, 95% confidence interval [CI], 333.1–433.1, vs $273.97, 95% CI, 243.4–304.5, P < 0.001) following the introduction of a direct point-of-purchase incentive. Multivariate analysis indicated this difference remained after adjusting for the year the market was held and the neighborhood poverty level.
Increasing access to fresh fruits and vegetables in low-income neighborhoods and promoting consumption of these foods are important strategies for reducing the risk of heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, and cancer (1–5). However, in low-income communities, limited availability and high prices present obstacles to the purchase and consumption of fresh produce (6–9). In New York City, 2009 data showed that 17.2% of residents in low-income neighborhoods reported eating no fruits and vegetables on the preceding day, compared with 8.0% of residents in high-income neighborhoods (P < .001) (10). Farmers markets, which are mobile and can be located throughout urban neighborhoods, offer a promising venue for intervention to decrease this disparity (11–14).
In 2005, the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) introduced Health Bucks, a coupon-distribution program providing financial incentives for low-income New Yorkers to shop at farmers markets in the city's highest poverty areas. Two-dollar Health Bucks coupons were given to community-based organizations for distribution to residents for use at 11 participating markets during the annual growing season (July 1–November 15). In 2006, the DOHMH expanded Health Bucks to encourage recipients of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits to use electronic benefit transfer (EBT) wireless terminals at farmers markets to purchase fruits and vegetables. EBT is the mechanism through which New York State delivers cash and SNAP benefits (formerly known as food stamps) to the state's recipients. Funds are deposited into the accounts of individual recipients and made accessible to them via state-issued SNAP benefits cards (15). In 2006 when DOHMH expanded Health Bucks, it gave SNAP recipients at some markets a $2 coupon for every $5 in EBT credits spent. The objective of this study was to examine the program's effect on mean EBT sales and to determine via a preliminary assessment whether Health Bucks increased EBT spending in a sample of NYC farmers markets.
Greenmarket (http://www.grownyc.org/greenmarket), the largest outdoor urban farmers market network in the United States, manages the subset of the markets in New York City that participate in the Health Bucks program. Greenmarket has been on the forefront of national efforts to encourage SNAP spending at farmers markets and has installed EBT wireless terminals at many of the markets that are members of its network. As standard practice, Greenmarket records EBT sales at markets that accept SNAP benefits.
Greenmarket provided DOHMH with records of daily EBT sales for each individual market on each day of operation from July 2006 through November 2009. Data fields included the name and address of the market, the market date, and the total value of EBT sales in the market on that date. Altogether, Greenmarket provided EBT sales data for 1,289 market days (ie, each day of operation for each individual market) over the study period. Thirteen market days were excluded because their EBT sales were not attributed to a specific market, and an additional 15 days were excluded because records reflected EBT sales that took place at special events rather than ongoing farmers markets. Because Health Bucks are offered only during the growing season, defined as July 1 through November 15, days outside these dates were excluded (193 days). After these exclusions, our sample included EBT sales from 24 markets, operating for 45 days on average, for a total of 1,068 market days. Markets included in the final sample spanned all 5 boroughs of New York City, and 18 of the markets were located in high-poverty neighborhoods (≥20% of residents earned less than 200% of the federal poverty level [FPL]). Eleven of the 24 markets in the sample did not accept Health Bucks during the study period. Four markets had EBT sales data before and after they began accepting Health Bucks, and the remaining 9 markets had sales data available after the market began accepting Health Bucks coupons. The number of markets represented each year varied; our data included 8 markets in years 2006 and 2007, 15 in 2008, and 23 in 2009.
Independent t tests were used to assess differences in mean daily EBT sales among farmers markets. First, for each year of the study period, we compared differences in mean daily EBT revenue among markets that participated in the Health Bucks program and those that did not. Next, we examined a subset of markets for which EBT data were available both before and after Health Bucks coupons were offered. These markets each had a different number of market days before and after the introduction of Health Bucks because of variation in market days from year to year. Also, for one market, there was only one year of data before Health Bucks coupons were introduced compared with 3 years of data after introduction. Because sales before and after Health Bucks coupons introduction at individual markets would be correlated with each other, we used a linear mixed model to account for this dependency while assessing whether adding Health Bucks coupons as an incentive increased average daily EBT sales at these markets. Finally, we used a linear regression model to examine the impact of Health Bucks coupons on mean EBT market revenue. We adjusted for market year, because annual increases in funding of Health Bucks would be expected to cause shifts in related EBT sales each year. We also adjusted for neighborhood poverty level, because EBT use would be expected to vary with neighborhood poverty levels. FPL thresholds were used to define the neighborhood poverty level; a high-poverty neighborhood was defined as one in which 20% of residents or more earned less than 200% of FPL, a determination consistent with DOHMH standard practice. For all significance testing, the α level was set at P < .05. We used SPSS for Windows version 18.0 (SPSS Inc, Chicago, Illinois) to conduct all analyses.
The number of farmers markets accepting SNAP benefits via EBT terminals increased from 8 in 2006 to 23 in 2009. Average daily per-market EBT sales among all markets accepting SNAP benefits rose from $114.55 in 2006 to $465.87 in 2009. Among these markets, participation in the Health Bucks Program also expanded over time. In 2006, 5 Greenmarket markets participated in Health Bucks; this total grew to 12 participating Greenmarket markets in 2009 (Table).
During the first 2 years of the study period, markets that participated in the Health Bucks Program had lower average daily EBT sales than nonparticipating markets (Figure 1). In 2006, average daily EBT sales in participating markets were $94.64 (95% confidence interval [CI], 71.0–118.3), compared with $161.00 (95% CI, 119.2–202.8) among nonparticipating markets (P = .004); in 2007, participating markets averaged $109.15 (95% CI, 81.8–136.5) in daily EBT sales, compared with $381.28 (95% CI 316.4–446.2) among nonparticipating markets (P < .001). However, this balance shifted in the later years of analysis. In 2008, when the SNAP incentive expanded and the majority of coupon distribution shifted to EBT, participating markets documented $397.17 (95% CI, 310.5–483.8) in average daily EBT revenues, compared with $211.85 (95% CI, 161.0–262.7) at nonparticipating markets (P < .001); in 2009, participating markets showed nearly double the average daily EBT revenues of nonparticipating markets ($595.73, 95% CI, 495.4–696.1, vs $301.19, 95% CI, 253.9–348.4, P < 0.001).
Figure 1. Average daily EBT sales at New York City farmers markets with and without the Health Bucks incentive, from 2006 through 2009. From 2006 through 2007, Health Bucks coupons were distributed primarily through community-based organizations. From 2008 through 2009, they were distributed primarily as an incentive for using EBT at farmers markets. Values are in dollars (followed by number of market days) and represent average sales per market day. Abbreviation: EBT, electronic benefit transfer. [A tabular version of this figure is also available.]
To examine potential confounders, our linear regression model adjusted for the income level of the neighborhood in which the markets were located and the year in which data were collected. We found that after controlling for these factors, markets participating in Health Bucks averaged $170.79 more in daily EBT sales than nonparticipating markets (95% CI, 102.4–239.1, P < .001).
To account for variation in market size, types of vendors, and operational hours that may have affected our comparison of EBT sales data across markets, we examined a subset of farmers markets for which EBT data were available both before and after Health Bucks were offered. We compared sales data within each individual market before and after the Health Bucks EBT incentive was introduced and found significant increases in EBT sales after introduction of the Health Bucks incentive in Market A ($340.67, 95% CI, 270.1–411.3 vs $1,607.88, 95% CI, 1341.30–1874.50, P < .001) and Market B ($18.00, 95% CI, 1.1–34.9 vs $66.53, 95% CI, 50.2–82.9, P = .041). Figure 2 displays average daily EBT sales for each market before and after introduction of Health Bucks.
Figure 2. Average daily EBT sales at select New York City farmers markets before and after markets accepted Health Bucks, from 2006 through 2009. Analysis is limited to markets that accepted EBT both before and after accepting Health Bucks. Values are in dollars (followed by number of market days) and represent average sales per market day. Abbreviation: EBT, electronic benefit transfer. [A tabular version of this figure is also available.]
In this preliminary study of the impact of Health Bucks on EBT spending at NYC farmer's markets, we found that offering a direct financial incentive to SNAP recipients using EBT at urban farmers markets in 3 low-income New York City neighborhoods was associated with significant increases in EBT sales at those markets. Among markets accepting EBT in 2008 and 2009, the average daily EBT sales at participating markets were nearly double the sales of markets that did not offer the incentive. After controlling for neighborhood income level and the year in which data were collected, increases in sales figures remained significant. Additionally, we compared sales data from 4 markets for which EBT data were available before and after the Health Bucks EBT incentive was introduced and found that the introduction of Health Bucks resulted in significant increases in EBT revenue in 2 of the 4 markets.
These preliminary results suggest Health Bucks could be a useful program model for the delivery of financial incentives that encourage low-income shoppers to visit farmers markets in neighborhoods where the availability of affordable, high quality produce in the retail environment may be limited (7,9). Our findings merit further exploration, especially considering research that suggests the consumption of fruits and vegetables may be higher among low-income people and SNAP recipients who shop in farmers markets (16,17). Studies have also documented high levels of coupon use in farmers markets among low-income older adults (11) and among participants in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Farmers Market Nutrition Program (12–14). However, if more jurisdictions begin to provide these types of financial incentives, then developing successful strategies for distributing them will be essential. Health Bucks coupons offer a distribution model that should be further investigated for potential application in other settings seeking to encourage SNAP spending at farmers markets.
In 2008, several years after the launch of Health Bucks and midway through our study period, the New York City Human Resources Administration provided substantial financial support for the EBT incentive. This additional funding increased the number of coupons distributed from almost 20,000 in 2007 to more than 200,000 in 2008. Health Bucks was further expanded as part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC's) Communities Putting Prevention to Work program (18), which funded grants to markets to hire market managers to operate the required EBT terminals. Health Bucks is now one of the largest farmers market financial programs in the United States, and our study's findings provide evidence suggesting the effectiveness of encouraging EBT spending at farmers markets via coupons for fresh produce.
This preliminary study has limitations. First, although our findings suggest that SNAP beneficiaries spent more at markets after the Health Bucks incentive was implemented, we cannot be certain that those individuals were buying more fruits and vegetables because farmers markets sell foods and goods other than fresh produce. Second, we acknowledge that the provision of the Health Bucks incentives may have shifted SNAP spending on fruits and vegetables from other food outlets to farmers markets, rather than increasing SNAP spending on produce overall. Alternatively, SNAP recipients may have shifted their spending from farmers markets that did not offer the Health Bucks incentive to markets that did. However, a recent study examining the effects of a subsidy for fresh fruits and vegetables for postpartum women who are beneficiaries of WIC programs indicated that incentive programs did increase purchasing and consumption of fresh produce, particularly for WIC recipients who received coupons for produce at farmers markets (12). This finding leads us to suspect that Health Bucks may have had the same effect, indicating the importance of further research to explore this possibility. Third, Greenmarket's data do not allow us to control for variations in size, vendor type, and operational hours in our analyses, and markets included in our analyses varied across years. These differences may have affected EBT sales; however, our internal comparison analysis of mean EBT sales in the same markets before and after the incentive aimed to address this limitation by comparing sales within the same market, where these factors would be relatively constant. Fourth, although the total number of days of sales data for this study was substantial (1,068), only 24 markets are represented in this study, and the sample sizes were limited, particularly for the analysis within the same markets. Further studies are needed to determine whether these are reliable effects. Finally, our data are limited to a nonrandom sample of participating Health Bucks markets that are members of the Greenmarket network and for which daily mean EBT sales data are available.
Future studies should address these limitations by exploring in greater detail how Health Bucks affects EBT spending in farmers markets citywide. One avenue for exploration would be to determine how Greenmarket's data capture can be improved to allow for finer analyses of market characteristics and locations that may affect EBT sales. Second, studies should be designed to assess whether increased EBT spending at farmers markets is directly linked to the purchase of fresh produce at farmers markets in low-income neighborhoods. One way to accomplish this goal would be to track how SNAP recipients spend the financial incentives they receive through Health Bucks. Third, if purchases of fresh fruits and vegetables do increase, then we must also investigate whether increased spending on fresh produce leads to greater consumption of fruits and vegetables among this low-income population; we note that a link between the purchase of fresh produce and its consumption has not yet been reliably established. Finally, by providing SNAP recipients with $2 coupons for every $5 spent via EBT, Health Bucks increased SNAP recipients' purchasing power by 40% (calculated as 40% of $5 = $2). However, programs across the country provide varying financial incentives, including many with a dollar-per-dollar match (12–14). Given the increasingly limited funding available for these types of programs, further research should examine the incentive level required to change SNAP purchasing patterns.
Because US health care costs for obesity and its associated health consequences reach $147 billion per year (19), municipalities are seeking to identify strategies that encourage healthier behaviors, particularly among populations at greatest risk. Improving the local food environment in low-income neighborhoods is a key avenue for exploration (20–22). We urge other urban jurisdictions to consider adapting the Health Bucks program where feasible to encourage low-income shoppers to purchase fresh produce as one potential strategy in a comprehensive approach to increasing access to and affordability of healthful food in low-income neighborhoods.
This project was supported in part by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and by a cooperative agreement from CDC's Communities Putting Prevention to Work program 3U58DP002419-01S1. Starting in 2008, funding for the EBT incentive was provided by the New York City Human Resources Administration. We especially thank our partners at GrowNYC and NYC Human Resources Administration for their continued backing of the Health Bucks Program. Thanks to Michael Hurwitz, Alexis Stevens, Anne Sperling, Alyson Abrami, James Hadler, and Kasey Holloway for their input into the design of this evaluation and review of the manuscript for this article. Thanks also to Michael Johns for assistance with analysis and manuscript development.
Corresponding Author: Sabrina Baronberg, MPH, Director, Food Access and Community Health Programs, Bureau of Chronic Disease Prevention and Tobacco Control, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, 42-09 28th St, 9th Floor – CN 46, Queens, NY 11101. Telephone: 347-396-4307. E-mail: sbaronbe@health.nyc.gov.
Author Affiliations: Lillian Dunn, Cathy Nonas, Rachel Dannefer, Bureau of Chronic Disease Prevention and Tobacco Control, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York; Rachel Sacks, consultant to New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York.
US Department of Agriculture and US Department of Health and Human Services. Dietary guidelines for Americans, 2010. 7th edition, Washington (DC): US Government Printing Office; 2010.
Boeing H, Bechthold A, Bub A, Ellinger S, Haller D, Kroke A, et al. Critical review: vegetables and fruit intake in the prevention of chronic disease. Eur J Nutr 2012;51(6):637–63. CrossRef PubMed
Martínez-González MÁ, de la Fuente-Arrillaga C, López-del-Burgo C, Vázquez-Ruiz Z, Benito S, Ruiz-Canela M. Low consumption of fruit and vegetables and risk of chronic disease: a review of the epidemiological evidence and temporal trends among Spanish graduates. Public Health Nutr 2011;14(12A):2309–15. CrossRef PubMed
World Health Organization and Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Fruit and vegetables for health: report of a joint FAO/WHO workshop, 1-3 September 2004, Kobe, Japan. http://www.who.int/dietphysicalactivity/publications/fruit_vegetables_report.pdf. Accessed May 30, 2013.
Graham R, Kaufman L, Novoa Z, Karpati A. Eating in, eating out, eating well: access to healthy food in north and central Brooklyn. New York (NY): New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; 2006.
Ver Ploeg ML, Chang HH, Lin BH. Over, under, or about right: misperceptions of body weight among food stamp participants. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2008;16(9):2120–5. CrossRef PubMed
New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. 2009 Community Health Survey. http://www.nyc.gov/html/doh/html/community/community.shtml. Accessed January 10, 2012.
Balsam A, Webber D, Oehlke B. The farmers market coupon program for low-income elders. J Nutr Elder 1994;13(4):35–42. CrossRef PubMed
Racine EF, Smith Vaughn A, Laditka SB. Farmers market use among African-American women participating in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children. J Am Diet Assoc 2010;110(3):441–6. CrossRef PubMed
New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT). http://otda.ny.gov/programs/ebt/. Accessed May 30, 2013.
Jilcott Pitts SB, Wu Q, McGuirt JT, Crawford TW, Keyserling TC, Ammerman AS. Associations between access to farmers' markets and supermarkets, shopping patterns, fruit and vegetable consumption and health indicators among women of reproductive age in eastern North Carolina, USA. Public Health Nutr 2013;24:1–9. E-pub ahead of print May 24, 2013. CrossRef PubMed
Gustafson A, Lewis S, Perkins S, Wilson C, Buckner E, Vail A. Neighbourhood and consumer food environment is associated with dietary intake among Supplemental Nutrition Assisstance Program (SNAP) participants in Fayette County, KY. Public Health Nutr 2013;16(7):1229–37. PubMed
Trogdon JG, Finkelstein EA, Feagan CW, Cohen JW. State- and payer-specific estimates of annual medical expenditures attributable to obesity. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2012;20(1):214–20. CrossRef PubMed
O'Malley K, Gustat J, Rice J, Johnson CC. Feasibility of increasing access to healthy foods in neighborhood corner stores. J Community Health 2013;38(4):741-9. CrossRef PubMed
Bassett MT. Of personal choice and level playing fields: why we need government policies on food content. Am J Public Health 2012;102(9):1624. CrossRef PubMed
Table. Characteristics of New York City Greenmarketsa by Year, 2006–2009
Number of Greenmarkets accepting EBT
Number of Greenmarkets offering Health Bucks incentives
Number of Greenmarket market daysb with EBT data
120 177 272 499
Abbreviation: EBT, electronic benefit transfer.
a Greenmarket (http://www.grownyc.org/greenmarket), an outdoor urban farmers market network, manages the subset of the markets in New York City that participate in the Health Bucks program.
Adolescents With Learning Disabilities MBA Thesis Assistance - Write a Thesis on Adolescents With Learning Disabilities Dissertation Statistical Analysis
"Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" Dissertation Sample, Writing a Thesis on "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities," and University Dissertation Assistance
Our original "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" writing is
Topic: "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities"
Do you require assistance with a master dissertation, a PhD thesis, or a master research proposal about "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities"?
For nine years, our MBA consultants on subjects like "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" have aided undergraduate academics, doctoral-level students, and college grad students around the world by providing the most comprehensive research assistance on the Internet for "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" studies and coursework. If you need assistance with your dissertation, Ph.D. thesis, master's research proposal, or any other type of academic assignment involving "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities," our contracted research experts can begin helping right now! You will be the ONLY person to ever receive our original, scholarly document on "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities," which we will write especially and solely for YOU! No matter what kind of writing and/or research assistance you need, our savvy, master tutors will make sure that you accomplish your goals by your deadline.
Our one-of-a-kind thesis, dissertation, or proposal on "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" can include any of the unique features listed at right (click on a feature for details). Each feature is optional and does NOT increase the price per page. You can choose all of the features, any combination of the features, or choose your own features—it is completely up to YOU. The price per page does NOT increase, no matter how many features you choose. You will be charged ONLY for the total number of pages that you order. If you would like a feature that is not listed at right, we will include that feature at your request. On a case-by-case basis, we can also research numerical formulas, solutions, causality, design, forecasting, data management, and statistical analysis using software (SAS, SPSS, and Excel). Whether you need a 5-page research proposal at master-level, or a 350-page thesis at doctoral-level, our qualified professionals will meet your needs—guaranteed!
Our "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" experts can research and write a NEW, ONE-OF-A-KIND, ORIGINAL dissertation, thesis, or research proposal—JUST FOR YOU—on the precise "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" topic of your choice. Our final document will match the EXACT specifications that YOU provide, guaranteed. We have the necessary skills, knowledge, and experience to complete virtually any master- or doctoral-level order. Of course, ONLY those writers who possess a corresponding doctoral-level degree in the particular field of study will complete doctoral-level orders.
It is a recognized FACT that over 94% of "thesis" and "dissertation" services hire unskilled, amateur, low-paid, foreign writers who steal sources and plagiarize text from published documents. Rest assured, however, that our American company is among the legitimate 6%. If you order one of our services, a professional and qualified researcher will write a one-of-a-kind, original dissertation or thesis on "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" that is based on the exact specifications YOU provide. Prior to delivery, we will scan the completed document with our plagiarism-detection software to further ensure that all text is original and all sources are properly cited throughout the paper and on a bibliography, works cited, and/or references page. Our dissertation or thesis will be completely unique, providing you with a solid foundation of "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" research. You may visit our FAQ page for more information.
Whether you need basic "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" research at master-level, or complicated research at doctoral-level, we can begin assisting you immediately! We are quite confident in our "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" knowledge and versatile writing skills. Our exclusive and unique ExactWriter® system ensures that your order is assigned to a professional, AMERICAN writer with a corresponding degree in the necessary field of study. In the unlikely event that we do not write the material to meet the specifications of your original order—in both content and formatting—we will provide unlimited editing and/or re-writing for FREE. Your satisfaction is our top priority!
For 8+ years, we've written hundreds of doctoral-level thesis papers and dissertations for research—24 hours a day, 7 days a week—on incredibly intricate topics. Our "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" researchers are highly-educated specialists with impeccable research and writing skills who have vast experience in preparing doctoral-level research materials. Equipped with proper tools, statistical software, and sources of reference, we write dissertations and theses that are one-of-a-kind, innovative, accurate, and up-to-date. In addition to regular libraries, our professional researchers have access to online, member-only research libraries that contain millions of books, journals, periodicals, magazines, and vast information on every conceivable "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities" subject. And remember, we can research ANY topic, of ANY length, at ANY level, for virtually ANY delivery date—guaranteed!
Our Additional Dissertation Assistance Features Connected to "Adolescents With Learning Disabilities":
Abstract Research Admission Method Formula Advantages
Annotated Bibliography Subject Appendix Answer Application Categories
How to Argue Planning Assignment Idea Author Biography Format
Bias Examples Brainstorm Topics Chapter Summaries Topics
Characters Plan Chicago Format Answers Clarification Assignment
Class Work Format How to Classify Revisions College Rhetoric
Compare & Contrast Revisions Conclusion Chapter Explanation Controversy Assignments
Course Instructions Creative Subjects Critical Thinking Tips
Data Collection Methods Debate Methodology Deductive Reasoning Explication
Defense Assignment Diagram Planning Example Disadvantages
Endnotes Feedback Evaluation Model Evidence Criteria
Examine Impact Executive Summary Characteristics Explanatory Rubric
Explicate Methods Five-paragraph Categories Footnotes Revision
For or Against Stance Plan Free Writing Ideas Graph Examples
Group Presentation Idea Harvard Format Question Historical Context Example
Historicism Explication History Explication Hypothesis Chapter Importance
Illustrative Criteria Inductive Reasoning Tips Informative Instructions
Influence Idea Instructive Experiment How to Interpret Benefits
Introduction Chapter Rubric Investigative Timeline Literature Review Chapter Explication
Methodology Chapter Subject Negative Topics Objective Research
Observation Example Online Categories Opinion Tone
Overview Assignments Peer Review Structure Perspective Topics
Plot Writing Popular Revision Position Idea
Positive Instructions PowerPoint Instructions Preface Assessment
Presentation Method Pro-Con Topic Problem Statement Model
Project Categories Proposal Characteristics Pros and Cons Characteristics
Questionnaire Notes Quotation Category Rationale Structure
Reading Rhetoric Recommendations Writing References Advice
Reflective Experiment Relevance Format Methods Resources
Results Design Rhetorical Writing Scholarship Advice
School Methodology Socially Relevant Experiment Society Outlines
Statement of the Problem Categories Statistical Analysis Topic Stream-of-Consciousness Criteria
Strengths Plan Student Category Study Guide Structure
Study Ideas Style Assignments Subject Population Benefits
Subjective Method Symbols and Abbreviations Outline Synopsis Experiment
Table of Contents Idea Tables, Charts, Figures Plan Technical Plan
Techniques Assignment Tests Revision Thematic Overview Plan
Themes Examples Theories Outlines Thesis Statement Methodology
Title Page Tone Topic Sentence Explication Turabian Format Example
Adolescents With Learning Disabilitiess Dissertation Copyright © 2002-2021 www.phd-dissertations.com All rights reserved.
The Bluff Community Board and Invercargill City Council are welcoming an announcement today by Tourism Minister Kelvin Davis that the Government will provide $25,000 towards a $50,000 feasibility study for Stirling Point in Bluff.
Council’s Roading Manager, Russell Pearson, said the funding from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment’s Tourism Infrastructure Fund would be spent on a feasibility study to identify the needs of Stirling Point, so that the future demands from the growth in visitors could be planned for.
“The current infrastructure at Stirling Point barely meets current visitor demand, with limited parking close to visitor activities. The area is experiencing increased periods of visitor saturation, which is creating safety concerns. While to date the situation is being managed, finding a solution to these issues has become a priority.
A new Frost & Sullivan report finds a need for fundamental change in the current healthcare model. This change, which the report found to be dependent on technology, points to three core tech markets, including remote patient monitoring and telehealth. The report found remote patient monitoring could save the system $197 billion over 25 years and that the telehealth market will grow by 10% per year to $9 billion by the end of this year.
Todd Park, CTO of HHS, joins Francis Collins, Director of NIH, for opening keynote at mHealth Summit.
A recent NEJM piece by a Cleveland Clinic geriatrician predicts that healthcare will be moving out of hospitals and back into patients’ homes. The driving forces behind this change: “the aging of the US population, epidemics of chronic diseases, technological advances, health care consumerism, and rapidly escalating health care costs.”
An iDataResearch report predicts the patient monitoring market to reach $4 billion by 2017. Multi-parameter monitors are the largest segment, followed by pulse oximetry.
A new Pew Internet study finds that only 9% of mobile device owners use mobile apps to track or manage health. African Americans are more likely users (15%) than Latinos (11%) or Caucasians (7%).
East Tennessee Children’s Hospital releases an iPhone app with facility information, health tips, and the ability to enter pertinent medical history for kids. It would be nice if they offered Blue Button-like functionality to populate the app with medical history info based on some secure identifier, though this would be a very different level of effort to develop.
HP releases the Slate 500 ($799) tablet built on Windows 7. The tablet has front and rear facing cameras. but this review does not find it to be very user friendly. The target market is business execs and enterprise users.
Researchers find that users of Australia’s online assessment tool for patients with mental illness are more willing to answer certain questions online than in a personal encounter. Providers do not see their answers, but get a report based on responses.
Vancouver providers use portable ultrasound devices to assess patients at the point of care as part of the physical exam. The devices are already in use by paramedics in Europe, extending the reach of the imaging modality beyond the ED and trauma unit.
John Halamka’s most recent Cool Technology Post is about patientsafe, which is building the newest iPod into a full-spectrum healthcare device that nurses and other hospital workers can use for just about anything they do on the job.
Minnesota non-profit HealthPartners launches virtuwell for MN visitors and residents. Virtuwell is an online service in which consumers or patients answer questions about symptoms and are given a diagnosis by a nurse practitioner within 30 minutes. The service costs “up to $40,” though HealthPartners hopes to partner with insurers for reimbursement.
A patent is awarded to new a telehealth scale, coming in both wired and Bluetooth editions, that turns itself on and off as users weight themselves. This system is different from most telehealth scales that require a tap to turn on, which can be a challenge for somebody homebound that needs a telehealth scale in the first place.
Ericsson releases the IPTV Two Screen Remote to centralize control of digital devices as part of the Connected Home. Currently targeting TV services, the company says future application integration could include healthcare, presumably remote monitoring devices.
Practice Fusion announces two strategic partnerships during HIMSS today that will allow its physician users to monitor patient data in real-time. The announcement came on the opening day of HIMSS in Orlando. The ambulatory EHR company will work with AliveCor to capture cardiac data, and will work with Diasend to track glucose and insulin levels. Practice Fusion and AliveCor are both San Francisco, Calif.-based companies. Financial details behind the partnership were not disclosed, but the arrangement is expected to have a positive benefit for both companies’ bottom lines.
AliveCor markets a heart monitor recently approved for over-the-counter sales that uses a smartphone and a pair of attached electrodes to capture electrocardiogram rhythm strips. The app then stores and securely sends the strips to a physician. The new partnership will enhance this process by allowing these ECG strips to be automatically imported into the Practice Fusion EHR when the patient presents in the office. The new workflow marks a significant improvement over the current standard of care which requires that patients come to the hospital or a clinic to have an ECG taken.
Diasend is a Swedish digital health company that markets a platform capable of importing data from glucometers, continuous glucose meters, and insulin pumps. The accompanying app helps patients trend results over time and is now capable of pushing data to Practice Fusion’s EHR.
“Digital doctors equipped with device data in their EHR represent the next frontier of care, and have the unique ability to make more informed decisions with their patients by utilizing technology that finally marries data about a patient’s everyday health with data collected in the exam room.” – Matt Douglass, co-founder and vice president of platform, Practice Fusion.
With the partnerships in place, Practice Fusion users will now be able to review trended glucose and insulin levels, as well as ECG strips, during routine office visits. The partnership will give practices a rare look into home-based behaviors.
Scanadu, a NASA-based Silicon Valley mHealth startup, announces its first wave of consumer-based product offerings. Working under the tagline “sending your mobile phone to med school” the company hopes to fill the yet-to-be-realized market demand for home-based “auto-diagnosis” devices.
In pursuit of this goal, the company announces a family of devices that will bring basic hemodynamic and laboratory analysis into the home care arena.
The first product, Scandu SCOUT, will retail for $150 and will collect a complete set of vital signs by holding the device to the temple for 10 seconds. The results, which are sent to the patients smartphone via a Bluetooth connection, integrate with the Scanadu app to provide analysis, tracking and health recommendations.
The next two products ScanaFlo and ScanaFlu turns a smartphone into a mobile analyzer. With an over the counter disposable cartridge, the Scanadu app can collect, analyze and diagnose patients with a variety of conditions.
ScanaFlo takes the concept of a simple home pregnancy test and moves it forward by adding the ability to test for urinary tract infections, and pregnancy complications such as preeclampsia, gestational diabetes and even kidney failure. ScanaFlu will assess cold-like symptoms and test saliva for Strep A, Influenza A and B, Adenovirus and RSV.
In a recent TEDTalk presentation, CEO and founder Walter De Brouwer discusses his inspiration for entering the mHealth industry, his vision of a future healthcare delivery model, and the Scanadu business he has created.
The products have yet to earn FDA approval. However, the company anticipates a 2013 release for the entire product line.
Nutrition Know-How - Our Experts Answer Your Questions
Expert Answers » Nutrition Know-How
Tim Harlan, MD, is currently the Medical Director at Tulane University School of Medicine and an assistant professor of medicine. He writes extensively on diet and health on his website DrGourmet.com, the easy-to-use resource to navigate complex nutrition and wellness info translated for the American kitchen.
I am 79 years old and had a triple heart by-pass 10 years ago. A year ago, I was in a minor car accident and hit my forehead. I see fog in my right eye when there isn't fog. Can I take ProSight vitamin to help this problem? I am in good health.
You should see an ophthalmologist immediately. If you have any change of vision due to an auto accident that should be investigated thoroughly and it is unlikely that any vitamin will help.
My father is 83 and a diabetic. His appetite has decreased to the point I am going to start him on a supplement. Are there any vitamins I should also consider adding to his diet—B vitamins for example?
This is a situation that I would really want to know about if I was your father's physician. There can be a lot of reasons for change in appetite in our geriatric patients, both acute and chronic. At the same time depending on your father's diabetes, I would want to be very careful about supplement use. I am not much of a fan of supplement drinks. Many of these are simply a simple sugar (corn syrup, sugar, maltodextrans) combined with milk and flavoring. They usually contain added vitamins.
My belief is that if your dad will drink such a shake it's best to make the shake with fresh, wholesome ingredients. Choose smoothies made with yogurt, milk or soy milk and fresh fruit for a much better quality drink. Speak with your father's physician about the best choice of vitamin supplements for his particular condition. There are some that could be a problem depending on certain medications that he might be taking. Thanks for writing.
I have recently developed a balance problem, actually more disorientation than balance. Scans have been done (didn't show anything), medication given to no avail and no improvement. Do you think it is possible that diet or medication build-up of some kind could be causing the problem. Triglycerides are high, and I recently started triplex for that. It has been going on for about three months.
There are a number of causes of balance issues. The most common is Benign Positional Vertigo (BPV). There can be clear signs of this on physical exam that can help confirm this but oftentimes BPV is a diagnosis of exclusion with negative brain scans and lab tests. While medication can help this, interestingly, there are a set of maneuvers that can be of great benefit. The Mayo Clinic has one of the best explanations of this treatment:
While there is no clear link between high triglycerides and dizziness another common issue can be reactive hypoglycemia. This is an abnormality of how the body handles glucose with blood sugars plummeting after eating. This is easier to diagnose and we use a test called the three hour Oral Glucose Tolerance Test. A specific amount of glucose is given and blood sugars are checked at hourly intervals and a positive result occurs with abnormally low blood sugar. This can be a challenge for folks and the treatment includes eating smaller meals more often and choosing more complex carbohydrates.
Another less common reason for dizziness is Meniere's Disease. We're not exactly sure of the cause but the predominate theory is that there is a build up of fluid in the inner ear. It may also be that the makeup of that fluid is somewhat abnormal. There is some research to indicate that eating regularly, avoiding monosodium glutamate (MSG) and eating a lower sodium diet may help.
As far as medications are concerned, as a physician this is always one of the first areas that I look at. There are many medications that can cause the sorts of symptoms you are having and consulting with your doctor about each of those that you are taking is an important step.
I am concerned about the use of aluminum foil. I've heard that it is an unsafe metal and it leaks into foods when cooked with. What do you think? Do you have any information on this metal?
There was evidence as early as 1965 showing a link with aluminum and Alzheimer's disease. The main source for concern was brain lesions in those who had died of Alzheimer's disease. The abnormal brain tissue contained high levels of aluminum, and it was thought that excess intake of the metal might be the cause. To date, however, there has not been convincing evidence to demonstrate that environmental exposure to aluminum causes the lesions or Alzheimer's disease. Likewise, even if there were a relationship between aluminum and disease, there are a number of other environmental sources for aluminum, including many foods, packaging, water supplies as well as medications such as antacids.
Does Green Tea Extract Help Control Blood Sugars? Is green tea extract effective in controlling blood glucose or is it better just to drink a cup of green tea daily?
I would avoid all green tea extract products. They have been clearly associated with liver failure. There's no guarantee that the company making them has quality controls in place to make sure of no contaminants. Likewise, many have been taken off the market by the FDA because of the inclusion of pharmaceutical-grade medications. There are very poor controls on the supplement industry and I never recommend any of these sorts of products to anyone for any reason.
Green tea, on the other hand, has been shown to have health benefits and would be a great choice. This speaks to the idea that fresh products are good for you and those that are processed are not.
Q: Apart from calcium, what nutrients might my parents be missing?
A: Answered by Joy K. Richardson, RD, CDE
The experts have spoken: Current recommendations for vitamin D are inadequate. "National recommendations from the Food and Nutrition Board are 400 to 600 International Units (IU) a day," said Neil Binkley, MD, an Associate Professor in Geriatrics and Endocrinology at the University of Wisconsin, speaking at the recent American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists 18th Annual Meeting & Clinical Congress. "That's simply not enough." Vitamin D is considered to be a very safe vitamin and many doctors are encouraging a range of supplementation from 1,500 to 2,600 IUs daily. Most of us are aware that Vitamin D is essential for bone health, but it seems that Vitamin D may also improve muscle function, which is a factor in fall prevention. As Dr. Binkley went on to say, "One of the primary killers among older adults is falls." Young people can easily produce vitamin D through their skin following 10 to 15 minutes of exposure to sunlight. However, most of us have been encouraged to stay out of the sun and, if we do go outdoors, to slather on sunscreen or sunblock. In addition, as we age we have less ability to make Vitamin D naturally through sunlight. One health practice in Florida found that nearly 40 percent of endocrinology clinic patients over 50 years old and with diabetes and other endocrine problems, have inadequate Vitamin D levels. While the use of sunscreen may be part of the issue, doctors feel there are multiple other reasons, and more research is being done to find out why this ability diminishes. Meanwhile, folks, have your Vitamin D levels checked by your doctor and, if you need to up your daily amounts, try a few minutes of mid-morning sun on your face, arms and chest, along with Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol)—believed to be more effective than D2— enriched lowfat dairy products and/or a Vitamin D3 supplement in the amount best determined by your doctor. This strategy may prove to be one more tool in the prevention box.
Multi-path Combination Analysis of Economic Development: Based on the Fuzzy Set Comparison of Multinational Data | Springer for Research & Development
ICMSEM 2020: Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference on Management Science and Engineering Management pp 182-196 | Cite as
In the context of the slowdown in global economic development, it is imperative to find a new path to promote economic development sustainedly. Previous studies have mostly discussed the net effect of a single factor on the economy, but it is more important to explore the combined effect of the combination of factors than that. The study uses fuzzy set qualitative comparison analysis (fsQCA) to test the multi-configuration relationship among innovative capability of technology, local market size, specialization of international division of labor and institutional context in 103 countries. The results prove that the scale of local market or innovative ability of technology can promote the development of developing countries' economy. Small countries with developed economies mostly develop their economy relying on science and technological innovation or institutional environment. Only large countries with strong comprehensive national strength and major economically developed countries often have both advantages of local market size and the innovative capability of technology. Based on the multi-path combination analysis, this article puts forward several suggestions for optimizing the path selection of economic development.
Economic development Fuzzy set qualitative comparative analysis Innovative capability of technology Local market size
Cai, L., Lei, Z., viki: Regional market scale, export opening and industrial growth-an analysis of a new economic geography model. J. Southwest Univ. Nationalities (4), 102–110 (2019)Google Scholar
Chen, J., Liu, H.: Intra-product international division of labor and regional economic growth efficiency-a study from the perspective of specialization. China's Econ. Issues (2), 76–82 (2013)Google Scholar
Dai, Q., He, Z.: The cost of international division of labor: the decomposition of vertical specialization and international risk transmission. Econ. Res. (3), 20–34 (2015)Google Scholar
Dou, J., Tao, F., Yang, J.: Technological innovation, population growth and economic growth in Chinese history. J. World Econ. 38(7), 143–164 (2015)Google Scholar
Grossman, G., Helpman, E.: Innovation and Growth in the World Economy. MIT Press, Cambridge (1991)Google Scholar
Gyimah Brempong, K.: Corruption, economic growth, and income inequality in Africa. Econ. Gov. 3(3), 183–209 (2002)CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Han, L., Tong, J., Ma, D.: Economic policy uncertainty and innovation output-empirical evidence from 21 countries and regions. Ind. Technol. Econ. 38(1) (2019)Google Scholar
Hu, Z.: Analysis of the impact of international division of labor in products on China's industrial productivity. China's Ind. Econ. (6), 38–45 (2007)Google Scholar
Huang, J., Li, K.: Export opening, regional market scale and economic growth. Econ. Res. (6), 27–38 (2006)Google Scholar
Kan, D., Luo, L.: Empirical study on the relationship between corruption and economic growth-an analysis based on multi-country panel data. Econ. Manag. (1), 26–32 (2010). (in Chinese)Google Scholar
Leff, N.H.: Economic development through bureaucratic corruption. Am. Behav. Sci. 8(3), 8–14 (1964)CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Li, J., Sun, H.: Effect of institutional quality on economic growth of countries along silk road economic belt-an empirical analysis based on global value chain perspective. Int. Econ. Trade Explor. (10), 44–56 (2016)Google Scholar
Li, X., Chen, X., Liu, B.: Research on the operating mechanism of Xiong bite's innovation and innovation-driven economic growth mode. Commer. Econ. Res. (21), 176–178 (2017)Google Scholar
Nelson, R.R., Winter, S.: An Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change. Harvard University Press, Cambridge (1982)Google Scholar
Ragin, C.C.: The Comparative Method: Moving Beyond Qualitative and Quantitative Strategies. University of California Press, Oakland (1987)Google Scholar
Rihoux, B., Ragin, C.C.: Configurational Comparative Methods: Qualitative Comparative Analysis (QCA) and Related Techniques. Sage Publications, Los Angeles (2009)CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Saviotti, P.P., Pyka, A.: Product variety, competition and economic growth. J. Evol. Econ. 18(3), 323–347 (2008)CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Schmookler, J.: Invention and economic growth. Econ. Hist. Rev. 20(1), 135 (1966)Google Scholar
Song, X.: China regional economic development and its convergence. Econ. Res. 9, 38–44 (1996)Google Scholar
Sun, X., Li, C.: Interactive mechanism between demand scale and industrial technology innovation-empirical test based on simultaneous equation model. Sci. Technol. Manag. (12), 80–85 (2009)Google Scholar
Tang, H., Zhang, H.: International division of labor in products and value chain promotion in developing countries. Econ. Res. (9), 81–93 (2009)Google Scholar
Weder, R.: Comparative home-market advantage: an empirical analysis of British and American exports. Rev. World Econ. 139(2), 220–247 (2003)CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Weng, Y., Gao, R., Rao, W.: Analysis of the impact of international division of labor in products on China's industrial productivity. Econ. Manag. Res. (4), 39–46 (2009)Google Scholar
Xiang, M., Yang, Z.: Market size, economic structure and economic growth-on the inevitability of east Asian integration. Bus. Res. (4), 54–57 (2003)Google Scholar
Yan, B., Zhou, H., et al.: Ways for local market size to affect technological innovation: a theoretical analysis framework. Sci. Technol. Manag. Res. (5), 22–28 (2018)Google Scholar
Yang, F.: Corruption in public investment and economic growth-based on empirical analysis of China from 1980 to 2008. Econ. Manag. (8), 162–169 (2011)Google Scholar
Yeh, Y.H., Shu, P.G., Chiu, S.B.: Political connections, corporate governance and preferential bank loans. Pac.-Basin Finance J. 21(1), 1079–1101 (2013)CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Zhang, Y.: Research on the contribution of technological innovation to industrial economic growth-based on different stages of industrial development. Res. Technol. Econ. Manag. (6), 25–29 (2017)Google Scholar
1.School of ManagementChongqing Technology and Business UniversityChongqingPeople's Republic of China
Mei H., Chen Y., Wei Y. (2020) Multi-path Combination Analysis of Economic Development: Based on the Fuzzy Set Comparison of Multinational Data. In: Xu J., Duca G., Ahmed S., García Márquez F., Hajiyev A. (eds) Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference on Management Science and Engineering Management. ICMSEM 2020. Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, vol 1190. Springer, Cham
anxiety attacks – Page 5 – Remedy for Panic Attack
Anxiety can be caused by a myriad of issues. Your family might have a history of having anxiety, of you might be experiencing tons of stress when it comes to the daily things that you do. Anyone can get anxiety. The article below discusses some of the ways you can deal with anxiety.
Get a handle on daily stress to ward off anxiety. When your stress rises, your anxiety can too. Delegate tasks and learn to relieve a few of the responsibilities and pressures of home or work. Be sure to also take time to decompress daily.
The doctor is a strong ally for anxiety sufferers. There are many treatment options currently available to help treat anxiety. Therefore, it is important to discuss your condition with your doctor. Together the two of you can work on finding the correct treatment for your stress.
Create daily goals for yourself. If you have a goal to work for through the day, you will keep your mind focused on this goal. This keeps you and your mind busy and will also keep you from thinking about the negative thoughts that bring on anxiety attacks.
Talk to someone you know about how you feel inside in regards to anxiety. Dealing with you anxiety alone can make it a lot harder. Sharing your feelings makes you feel better while reducing anxiety.
Learn to embrace the uncertain. When you keep worrying you cause more stress to yourself, making your anxiety levels rise. In fact, anxiety will keep you from being happy about positive things. Just be happy with the uncertainty and understand that you do not need instant remedies to cure the issues in your life.
If you have trouble turning off your racing thoughts at bedtime, try writing in a journal. Take a few minutes to pour your worries onto a sheet of paper and you just might find that you have released them, leaving them to the universe for resolution. Make a habit of writing nightly, if you need to.
Learning a variety of relaxation methods may help those with anxiety to feel less stressed. Spend time each day relaxing; drink some tea, work in your garden, or watch an interesting movie. A mere 20 minutes of calming activities daily can help lessen anxiety.
Adjust your brain chemistry by exercising. Anxiety is exacerbated by low levels of serotonin in your brain. Walking your dog, working out at the gym, or gardening all stimulate your brain to relax you. This not only helps with anxiety, but it helps with depression too.
Anyone could start experiencing anxiety. It is important to realize you are not alone. It's also recommended that you start dealing with your anxiety as soon as possible, and the suggestions you just went over will help you with that. Take a deep breath, and make sure that you start taking your life back today so you can be happy once again.
Author adminPosted on July 5, 2017 Categories UncategorizedTags anxiety attacks
Anxiety can be an inconvenient occurrence. Even though you seem to be enjoying your day, anxiety can appear for no apparent reason. Anxiety can quickly change your mood and your day for the worse. Look through this guide and find ways to prevent having a bad day due to anxiety.
Set a goal for you to achieve every day. If you have something to focus on each day, your mind will stay focused. Doing this keeps your mind active, and can help prevent the occurrence of negative ideas or thoughts which lead to anxiety attacks.
To help stabilize your anxiety, always keep busy. If you aren't doing anything and you just sit there, your mind wanders. Things that are simple, like cleaning your home or washing the car can help a lot.
Alter the chemical make-up of your brain with exercise. If you have low levels of serotonin, you could feel very anxious, but exercise raises your serotonin levels. Serotonin and dopamine are natural relaxants of the brain, and you can increase their production by exercise, whether it's tending your garden, walking, or working out. This results in lower anxiety and lower depression as well.
When you learn what triggers your anxiety you figure out how to control it. For instance, does your job cause you excess stress and anxiety? If you are, you may need to speak with your boss about a different project. When you know what causes the anxiety, you can get rid of it.
If anxiety attacks strike in the middle of the night, try to respond immediately. Getting out of bed is vital; it can be helpful to drink some water, have a snack, or watch a little television, too. Keeping yourself active will help to dissipate the anxiety and enable you to sleep easier.
Minimize your anxiety by joining a yoga class with some friends. You can eliminate problems and focus on what you're doing by practicing yoga. Yoga helps you balance yourself and feel refreshed.
Stay away from people that make you nervous. It may be an obvious tip, but a lot of people with anxiety do not realize this will help. People that make you feel anxious and uncomfortable might make your stress worse.
Hot tea is often touted as a great reliever of anxiety. The act of making and drinking hot tea can soothe your nerves and distract your mind. If your anxiety doesn't disappear soon after it starts, you might want to talk to a professional.
Live your life without letting anxiety turning your mood sour. You should be able to live the happy, relaxed life you have always wanted. Use the information in the article to help you live the life you want to live. Anxiety shouldn't rule your life.
Author adminPosted on June 10, 2017 Categories UncategorizedTags anxiety attacks, feel anxious, hot tea
