Blood Analysis & Iridology - Rubicon Persona Clinics
A live blood analysis entails pricking the finger and placing a drop of blood on a slide to look at under a darkfield microscope.
Here we will see evidence of poor assimilation of fats or proteins, low nutrients and immune response, increased clotting factors, imbalance in pH, inflammation, low oxygenation and much more.
Studying the dry blood further adds to any observations that need addressing, such as oxidative stress, loss of minerals, metals, heart conditions, bowel toxicity, reproductive problems, lymph congestion and vitamin deficiencies.
Advice on what foods to add or avoid will be given, along with suggestions on vitamin supplements or therapies will be suggested as well as referrals for further blood tests.
Iridology is the study of the eyes, particularly the iris. Your eyes serve as 'windows' to your state of health, with the iris revealing information about your entire body. Iridology is a safe, non-invasive, painless and reliable way of obtaining a 'snapshot' of your health, enabling you to start taking responsibility for it.
Sclerology means the study ("ology") of the hard, firm, fibrous outer coat of the eye known as the white of the eye "sclera".Sclerology is a method of interpreting red lines, colourations, and markings in the sclera as they relate to the whole body health.
A method whereby oxygenated water is introduced into the colon by gravity, through a specially sterilized tube in order to gently flush out toxins, gas, accumulated faecal matter and mucous deposits.
Why are they necessary? Colonics relieve symptoms of: a coated tongue, constipation, backache, bad breath, bloating, fatigue, bad gas, headaches, indigestion, loss of concentration, lung congestion, sinus congestion, skin problems, nail fungus, and symptoms of yeast infection.
How a toxic colon affects the body! When a bowel is under active, toxic wastes are more likely to be absorbed through the bowel wall and into the bloodstream. The blood then circulates these toxins to every part of the body and deposits some toxins in tissues. The greatest amounts of toxins are retained in the constitutionally weakest tissues. If any other elimination system is interactive, more wastes are retained in the body. As toxins accumulate in the tissues, alterations in cellular function take place, especially in the tissue, which toxins have settled. In addition, digestion may become poor, with the partially digested material adding to the problem because the body cannot make tissue out of half-digested nutrients. When a person reaches the degenerative-disease stage, it is a sign that toxic settlements have taken over a specific part or parts of the body. This is the time to consider detoxification, the cleansing of the body tissues. Without oxygen, the body loses energy, and the tired body continues its downward spiral.
Conditions helped by colon hydrotherapy! Enumerating conditions helped by colonic hydrotherapy is a daunting task, since nearly condition known to medicine will be helped by a treatment, which clears the body's main sewer. The timing of intervention is all-important. Some people delay in seeking help until challenged by serious disease, others when a functional problem such as Irritable Bowel Syndrome affects bowel function. According to experts, the majority of people are those trying to get to grip with long-term constipation. Colon Hydrotherapy helps with the treatment of physical diseases as well as psychological ones inclusive of stress and addictive effects of long term drinking and drug taking, where faster and more lasting detoxification is made possible.
Talk to Your Veterinarian in Phoenix, AZ About Leptospirosis
December 29, 2016 4:57 pm Published by admin Leave your thoughts
Ask any veterinarian in Phoenix, AZ and chances are, they have encountered at least one case of canine leptospirosis. Also referred to as "lepto", this disease can pass between animals and humans. Here is what you need to know so you can avoid contributing to this epidemic:
Infected animals spread the disease through their urine. Places that attract large numbers of dogs and humans, like dog parks, tend to serve as the epicenter for infection. Contaminated water is the most common means of exposure, but contact with infected food or soil can also transmit lepto. Since the bacteria can live in the environment for months, you will need to keep prevention measures in mind even after the epidemic slows down.
Start by keeping your dog away from contaminated water holes. Swimming, drinking and wading in urine-infested waters can lead to infection, so keep your dog from these areas. Also, when you are out socializing in areas with other dogs, keep your dog on a leash and limit contact with unknown and possibly unvaccinated animals. Do not allow dogs to share food, and clean up solid waste immediately.
Dogs infected with lepto suffer from vomiting, fever, abdominal tenderness, diarrhea, diminished appetite and physical weakness. These symptoms mimic other conditions, so you need to see a vet immediately to rule out lepto. However, many dogs never become visibly ill and act as carriers. Many eventually succumb to kidney failure, and before that time, they will often transmit the bacteria to other dogs.
The primary treatment for lepto is antibiotics. For them to be effective, however, the disease must be detected and diagnosed early. Late discovery of the disease reduces survival chances. The same course of treatment is also administered to humans. If your dog catches lepto, it is a good precaution to be tested for it yourself, too. That way you can start a course of antibiotics before you have symptoms.
The lepto vaccine is given after the parvo and distemper rounds conclude. As with other immunizations, there is a cycle of shots, and they must all be completed for the vaccine to be effective. If dog parks and water sports are a big part of your life, the lepto vaccination is usually recommended by your veterinarian.
The vaccine remains in development, so it may not be effective for all cases. Be aware of the symptoms and request early intervention from a vet if you suspect lepto exposure. Do not rule out lepto on an amateur opinion just because your dog received the vaccine. Also, the vaccination often works just for the short term. Your veterinarian may recommend follow-up vaccines if your activities suggest that course of action is in your dog's best interest.
See your veterinarian in Phoenix, AZ soon if you suspect your dog has been exposed to lepto or requires a vaccine. Call Christown Animal Hospital to schedule an appointment.
Thomas Schmittgen, Ph.D., a professor of pharmaceutics in the UF College of Pharmacy, is identifying novel treatments and new ways to deliver those therapies by restoring microRNA levels in cancer cells in hopes of finding options for people with the disease.
In a $3.2 million National Institutes of Health-funded study, Schmittgen and co-investigator Mitch Phelps, Ph.D., an associate professor of pharmaceutics and pharmaceutical chemistry at The Ohio State University, are attempting to restore the microRNA within cells to healthy levels. MicroRNA are tiny strands of molecules that serve as important gene regulators in the body. Liver cancers can form when certain microRNA molecules disappear from healthy cells. The challenge is that microRNAs are traditionally unstable in the bloodstream, limiting the effectiveness of drug treatment options.
The NIH funded Schmittgen and Phelps’ study in two phases. In 2013, NIH provided $1.5 million to fund phase I of the research examining microRNA and exosomes. NIH recently committed the final $1.7 million to fund phase II, where the researchers will attempt to produce more exosomes and conduct additional tests related to the effectiveness of the liver cancer drugs. NIH funded the research through its Extracellular RNA Communication Common Fund program that supports scientists’ efforts to better understand how extracellular RNA research may improve the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of a wide range of diseases, including liver cancer.
Schmittgen, who is also a member of the UF Health Cancer Center, joined the UF College of Pharmacy in 2015. UF Preeminence aims to recruit top scientists to join UF and help the university become an international leader in more than two dozen fields, including cancer therapeutics and drug discovery and development.

The U.S.-based owner of the Horizon RP110, Wild Duck, had plenty of yachting experience prior to ordering his new build, having previously built a Horizon E78 and a Horizon E88. For this, his largest yacht, he turned to Italian designer Luca Dini to assist in executing his vision of a modern and elegant Italian-inspired interior.
Styled by J.C. Espinosa, the Horizon RP110 is characterized by sweeping lines and an elegant, streamlined profile. An innovative, double chine, high-performance hull - developed in collaboration between Donald L. Blount & Associates and Horizon's in-house naval architecture team - not only provides a shallow, 5' 10" draft, but also minimizes drag at slower speeds and enhances hydrodynamic stability at high speeds.
Bronchitis means that the tubes that carry air to the lungs (the bronchial tubes) are inflamed and irritated. When this happens, the bronchial tubes swell and produce mucus. This makes you cough.
There are two types of bronchitis:
Acute bronchitis usually comes on quickly and gets better after 2 to 3 weeks.
Chronic bronchitis keeps coming back and can last a long time, especially in people who smoke. Chronic bronchitis means that you have a cough with mucus most days of the month for 3 months of the year and for at least 2 years in a row.
This topic focuses on acute bronchitis. Both children and adults can get acute bronchitis.
Most healthy people who get acute bronchitis get better without any problems. But it can be more serious in older adults and children and in people with other health problems, especially lung diseases such as asthma or COPD. Complications can include pneumonia and repeated episodes of severe bronchitis.
What causes acute bronchitis?
Acute bronchitis is usually caused by a virus. Often a person gets acute bronchitis a few days after having an upper respiratory tract infection such as a cold or the flu. Sometimes acute bronchitis is caused by bacteria.
Acute bronchitis also can be caused by breathing in things that irritate the bronchial tubes, such as smoke. It also can happen if a person inhales food or vomit into the lungs.
What are the symptoms?
The most common symptom of acute bronchitis is a cough that usually is dry and hacking at first. After a few days, the cough may bring up mucus. You may have a low fever and feel tired.
Most people get better in 2 to 3 weeks. But some people continue to have a cough for more than 4 weeks.
If your symptoms get worse, such as a high fever, shaking chills, chest or shoulder pain, or shortness of breath, you could have pneumonia. Pneumonia can be serious, so it's important to see a doctor if you feel like you're getting sicker.
How is acute bronchitis diagnosed?
Your doctor will ask you about your symptoms and examine you. This usually gives the doctor enough information to find out if you have acute bronchitis.
In some cases, you may need a chest X-ray or other tests to make sure that you don't have pneumonia, whooping cough, or another lung problem. This is especially true if you've had bronchitis for a few weeks and aren't getting better. More testing also may be needed for babies, older adults, and people who have lung disease (such as asthma or COPD) or other health problems.
How is it treated?
Most people can treat symptoms of acute bronchitis at home and don't need antibiotics or other prescription medicines. (Antibiotics don't help with viral bronchitis. And even bronchitis caused by bacteria will usually go away on its own.)
The following may help you feel better:
Don't smoke.
Suck on cough drops or hard candies to soothe a dry or sore throat. Cough drops won't stop your cough, but they may make your throat feel better.
Breathe moist air from a humidifier, a hot shower, or a sink filled with hot water. The heat and moisture can help keep mucus in your airways moist so you can cough it out easily.
Ask your doctor if you can take nonprescription medicine, such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin, to relieve fever and body aches. Don't give aspirin to anyone younger than age 20. Be safe with medicines. Read and follow all instructions on the label.
Rest more than usual.
Drink plenty of fluids so that you do not become dehydrated.
Use an over-the-counter cough medicine if your doctor recommends it. (Cough medicines may not be safe for young children or for people who have certain health problems.) Cough suppressants may help you to stop coughing. Expectorants can help you bring up mucus when you cough.
If you have signs of bronchitis and have heart or lung disease (such as heart failure, asthma, or COPD) or another serious health problem, talk to your doctor right away. You may need treatment with antibiotics or medicines to help with your breathing. Early treatment may prevent complications, such as pneumonia or repeated episodes of acute bronchitis caused by bacteria.
What can you do to avoid getting bronchitis?
There are several things you can do to help prevent bronchitis.
Avoid cigarette smoke. If you smoke, stop. People who smoke or are around others who smoke have acute bronchitis more often.
Wash your hands often during the cold and flu season.
Avoid contact with people who are sick with a cold or the flu, especially if you have other health problems.
Get a flu vaccine every year, and talk to your doctor about whether you should get a pneumococcal vaccine.
Related Information
Respiratory Problems, Age 11 and Younger
Respiratory Problems, Age 12 and Older
Tests for Lung Infections
Using Antibiotics Wisely
References
Other Works Consulted
Wenzel RP, Fowler AA III (2006). Acute bronchitis. New England Journal of Medicine, 355(20): 2125–2130.
Credits
Current as of: July 6, 2021
Author: Healthwise Staff
Medical Review:
E. Gregory Thompson MD - Internal Medicine
Adam Husney MD - Family Medicine
John Pope MD - Pediatrics
Martin J. Gabica MD - Family Medicine
Top of the page
Next Section:
Related Information
Previous Section:
Topic Overview
Top of the page
Next Section:
References
Previous Section:
Related Information
Top of the page
Next Section:
Credits
Previous Section:
References
Top of the page
Current as of: July 6, 2021
Author: Healthwise Staff
Medical Review:E. Gregory Thompson MD - Internal Medicine & Adam Husney MD - Family Medicine & John Pope MD - Pediatrics & Martin J. Gabica MD - Family Medicine
This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Learn how we develop our content.
To learn more about Healthwise, visit Healthwise.org.
© 1995-2021 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated.
Herbal drug BGR-34 helps cutting down heart attack risk: study | Speciality Medical Dialogues
A study published in an international journal has noted that ayurvedic drug, BGR-34, has been found to be effective in cutting down heart attacks by 50 percent in diabetic patients.
It also found that glycosylated haemoglobin level, tested to monitor the long-term control of diabetes mellitus, or at least half of the patients who had participated in the clinical trial for the herbal drug was under control, said a government official.
The results hold importance given that achieving near-normal glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) significantly decreases the risk of microvascular and macrovascular complications causing organ and tissue damage, the official said.
The polyherbal ayurvedic blood glucose regulator was prepared from six medicinal plants viz. Daruharidra, Giloy, Vijaysar, Gudmar, Manjeestha, and Methi.
From 31.7 million in 2000, diabetes cases are expected to rise by more than 100 percent in the year 2030 to account for a whopping 79.4 million.
Very friendly to deal with, and went by delivery instructions very well! The gazebo is nice and heavy and the frame is completely solid. I will give 5 stars. CHEEERS

The Sleep Disorders Center is conveniently located on the 1st floor of Parkwest Medical Center, just past the Information Desk in the main lobby.
The Parkwest Sleep Disorders Center is fully-accredited by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, and is ready to help you achieve better sleep. Accredited facilities have a board-certified sleep medicine physician, who leads a team of trained health care professionals. To become accredited by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, sleep centers must comply with the AASM Standards for Accreditation, the gold standard for patient care in the sleep field. These requirements incorporate the latest diagnostic and treatment advances, and the standards ensure that sleep centers provide high quality, patient-centered care.
Sleep disorders can affect overall health, and some may be life threatening. In addition to daytime sleepiness and fatigue, certain disorders may cause high blood pressure and serious heart problems. Sufferers often experience more illness, more accidents, reduced job performance, and strained relationships. There are more than 84 different types of sleep disorders, but some of the most common are explained here.
Ask your primary care physician for a referral to the Parkwest Sleep Disorders Center if you’re ready to get a good night’s sleep! If you’d like more information about our services, please call us at (865) 373-1974.

If you want to ask for a cash or charity donation present but feel worried about seeming impolite, our wedding gift poem cards are here to help! Personalise the small postcard with your own wording or select one of our quirky poems. Customise further with our bespoke colour palette. The iridescent card has a beautiful shimmer to it, which complements the stunning floral pattern. Delicate flower petals and leaves lace around the card, matching your countryside or vintage theme.
Tick-borne illnesses on the rise: What you need to know - AskDrManny
Tick-borne infections are out of control in parts of the United States — especially in the Northeast.
I say they're out of control because thousands of new cases of Lyme and other diseases are popping up each year, and local governments don't seem to be doing much with regard to monitoring and preventing the excessive amount of wildlife roaming these areas. Deer have become part of our daily lives, roaming around highly populated, metropolitan areas like New York and New Jersey where they were not a problem years ago.
Starting in spring, I see deer in my front and backyard at all times with nothing to fear. We, on the other hand, have everything to fear, because there are a multitude of diseases that come along with these beautiful creatures.
Lyme, while probably the most well-known of all the tick-borne diseases, is just one in a growing number of illnesses that can be passed on to humans from ticks.
Deer ticks, or black-legged ticks, are most commonly seen throughout the Northeastern and Midwestern regions of the country. Humans are at greatest risk for being bit by one of these ticks in the spring, summer and fall, however, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), adult deer ticks may be out searching for a host any time temperatures are above freezing. These ticks can transmit Lyme disease, anaplasmosis, babesiosis, Powassan disease and a newer disease which concerns me; Borrelia miyamotoi.
B. miyamotoi is a spiral-shaped bacteria that is closely related to the bacteria that cause tick-borne relapsing fever (TBRF), according to the CDC. The symptoms can be similar to those of Lyme disease including fever, chills, muscle aches, head ache. But, also similar to Lyme, infection with B. miyamotoi bacteria, if left untreated, could develop into severe arthritis or even cause nerve damage.
Diagnosis for this particular infection is complicated because the tests available for it are non-specific, but specialized labs can detect it in the DNA of the organism in positive blood samples. Within a few days of being bitten, patients may develop a rash similar to the "bullseye" we all know to be associated with Lyme, and if it's not treated, it the symptoms can become chronic.
Pregnant women, elderly and immunocompromised patients have an increased risk for developing an infection if they are bitten by a tick carrying this bacteria, but it can be treated with a course of antibiotics, like tetracycline, usually taken for about two weeks.
As always, the best prevention is the best medicine.
Avoid wooded, bushy areas and tall grass, and if you want to go hiking this summer, do yourself a favor and stay on a trail.
Wear long pants and sleeves and spray exposed areas with insect repellent.
Do frequent tick checks on yourself and your loved ones – including your pets!
Bathe or shower after coming in from outdoors to more easily find ticks and wash them off before they really sink their teeth in.
Results: The mean time between enhancement and last visit was 6.3±4.4 months. Manifest spherical equivalent changed from -0.02±0.83 D (-3.38 D to +2.25 D) pre-enhancement to 0.00±0.34 D (-1.38 D to +1.25 D) post-enhancement. At the last follow-up, the percentage of eyes within 0.50 D and 1.00 D of emmetropia was 90.4% and 99.5%, respectively. Of all eyes, 74.9% achieved monocular uncorrected distance visual acuity 20/20 or better. The mean corrected distance visual acuity remained the same before (-0.04±0.06 logMAR [logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution]) and after LVC procedure (-0.04±0.07 logMAR; P=0.70). There was a slight improvement in visual phenomena (starburst, halo, glare, ghosting/double vision) following the enhancement. No sight-threatening complications related to LVC occurred in this study.
Conclusion: LVC in pseudophakic patients with multifocal IOL was safe, effective, and predictable in a large cohort of patients.

The Drake Foundation is a not-for-profit organization committed to understanding and improving the health and welfare of sports players through scientific research and collaboration. Launched in 2014, the Foundation has already invested over £2 million into research funding and open access resources.
Much of the Foundation’s work to date has centered on concussion and head injuries in sport; knowledge that will serve not only to improve sports safety but also provide valuable insight into the processes underlying neurodegenerative diseases, such as dementia.
At present, The Drake Foundation is funding several ongoing studies across football and rugby, working with teams in the football Premier League; Premiership and Championship rugby union leagues; and leading researchers across the UK and beyond.
With multiple ground-breaking concussion projects underway, the Foundation is also growing their portfolio of research funding to investigate the long-term effects of playing and retiring from professional sport on mental and physical health, with the Drake Football Study being the first project in this area.
Comparison of Bronchoalveolar Lavage and Sputum Microbiology in Patients with Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia | AVESİS
Hacettepe University Research Information System
Researcher Login
Türkçe
All Publications Projects Award Intellectual Property User Theses
Advanced Search
Home page
Latest Publications
Comparison of Bronchoalveolar Lavage and...
Comparison of Bronchoalveolar Lavage and Sputum Microbiology in Patients with Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia
Copy For Citation
Emiralioglu N., SANCAK B., Tugcu G. D. , ŞENER B., YALÇIN E., Dogru D., ...More
PEDIATRIC ALLERGY IMMUNOLOGY AND PULMONOLOGY, vol.30, no.1, pp.14-17, 2017 (SCI-Expanded)
Publication Type: Article / Article
Volume: 30 Issue: 1
Publication Date: 2017
Doi Number: 10.1089/ped.2016.0718
Journal Name: PEDIATRIC ALLERGY IMMUNOLOGY AND PULMONOLOGY
Journal Indexes: Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED), Scopus
Page Numbers: pp.14-17
Keywords: primary ciliary dyskinesia, sputum, bronchoalveolar lavage, pathogen, NON-CF BRONCHIECTASIS, FIBROSIS BRONCHIECTASIS, CHILDREN, MANAGEMENT, DISEASE, BRONCHOSCOPY, CHILDHOOD, DIAGNOSIS, FEATURES
Hacettepe University Affiliated: Yes
Abstract
Chronic infections of primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) airways are strongly associated with morbidity and mortality; however, relatively limited data exist about their microbiology. Therefore, this study was aimed to determine whether there was a correlation between sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) microbiology in PCD cases. This was accomplished by comparing the lower airway bacteriology in PCD with the results of sputum samples. We retrospectively analyzed the microbiology of BAL and sputum samples of 114 patients who were diagnosed as PCD and followed up at Hacettepe University Hospital Department of Pediatric Pulmonology. At the time of sampling, patients had no pulmonary exacerbation, and sputum samples were obtained within 3 months of BAL. The mean age of the patients was 13.5 +/- 4.3 (range 3-21 years) years. Microbiological analysis revealed microorganisms in 47.4% of sputum samples and in 63.2% of BAL samples. In both BAL and sputum samples, Haemophilus influenzae was the most frequent pathogen, followed by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Pseudomonas aeruginosa was detected more frequently in children at older ages. Aspergillus spp. was detected only in BAL samples. The microbiological yield of BAL samples was higher than the sputum samples. There was no significant correlation between the patient age and positive microbiology of BAL and sputum samples. In PCD patients, there was a higher microbiological yield in BAL samples than the sputum samples. Therefore, we conclude that negative sputum microbiology results should be evaluated cautiously, as the rate of bacterial and fungal yield was higher in BAL specimens. The results of this comparative study support the view that sputum cultures do not always reflect the lower airway microbiology in the management of pulmonary disease in PCD.
Dental Health | Keep your teeth clean and the breath fresh - Part 169
7 Steps For Keeping Teeth Healthy For A Lifetime A smile can last a lifetime-if you care for it. Because of that, it's essential for moms and dads to infuse excellent dental health and wellness practices in youngsters as early as feasible. According to U.S. Surgeon General Richard H. Carmona's "National Call to Action to Promote Oral Health" record, youngsters shed greater than 51 million institution hrs as well as grownups shed greater than 164 million job hrs annually as a result of oral illness or oral sees. The country's complete expense for oral solutions was approximated to be greater than $70.1 billion in 2002. " Oral wellness illness is making troubling invasions right into areas throughout the nation," Dr. …
Read more "7 Steps For Keeping Teeth Healthy For A Lifetime"
Oral Assistants collaborating with Drug Users
Oral Assistants dealing with Drug Users Oral Assistants are made use of to functioning with clients that are enduring from bad oral health. Lots of moms and dads are left entirely stunned when the Dental Assistant has to notify them that their kid shows up to have a medicine dependence as well as it is influencing their dental wellness. The impacts of substance abuse in connection with dental healthcare consist of missing out on oral consultations, concern, anxiousness, food cravings for desserts, the danger of infection from Hepatitis B and also HIV, dental disregard, gum condition, gingivitis, and also excruciating gum tissues. It is very easy to see from this listing exactly how taking medications can bring about continuous dental …
Read more "Oral Assistants collaborating with Drug Users"
A Guide To Dental Health Individuals start to find out concerning oral wellness from an extremely young age, when teeth initially start to reveal up. Excellent oral health and wellness consists of cleaning and also flossing your teeth every day, as well as routine sees to a dental professional or oral hygienist. It takes even more than cleaning to maintain your teeth in excellent health and wellness. Some various other actions require to be taken to guarantee that individuals do not shed their teeth as they end up being old. To start with, you ought to recognize your very own dental wellness demands, as your dental wellness relies on your diet regimen, the kind as well as quantity of saliva …
Read more "A Guide To Dental Health"
Oral Plans For Great Dental Care Individuals usually do not pay as much focus to their oral health and wellness as they do to various other health problems, frequently with significant effects. To maintain oral illness away and also to fulfill the climbing prices of oral therapy it is very important that you select a great oral strategy. Having an oral strategy ought to urge you to take even more preventative treatment of your teeth to prevent the a lot more major oral troubles. With oral insurance policy strategies, the firm is accountable for repaying the dental practitioner. Dental professionals taking part in discount rate oral strategies take reduced charges than those covered by normal oral strategies, with discount rates …
