As set forth in more detail above, but subject to appropriate safeguards: (i) your information collected through the AG Service may be stored and processed anywhere in the world (including, without limitation, in the United States, Europe, or any other country in which AG or its subsidiaries, affiliates or service providers maintain facilities), and (ii) AG may transfer information that we collect about you, including Personal Data, to affiliated entities, or to other third parties across borders and from your country or jurisdiction to other countries or jurisdictions around the world.
The security of your Personal Data is important to us. But while AG is concerned with protecting your privacy and data, but we cannot ensure or warrant the security of any information you transmit to AG or guarantee that your information on the AG Service may not be accessed, disclosed, altered or destroyed by breach of any of our industry standard physical, technical or managerial safeguards. When you enter sensitive information (such as log in credentials or credit card numbers) on our registration or order forms, we encrypt that information using secure socket layer technology (SSL). No method of transmission over the Internet or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure, however. Therefore, we cannot guarantee its absolute security. If you have any questions about security on our Site, you can contact us at privacy@athleticgreens.com. We may use an outside help platform, and a credit card processing company to bill you if you purchase Services. These companies do not retain, share, store or use Personal Data for any other purposes.
To provide our services, we process your Personal Data in the U.S., Australia, New Zealand and other countries where we have operations for the purposes we have set out in this Privacy Policy. If such processing involves a restricted transfer of Personal Data in a manner governed by European data protection law, the transfer will be performed pursuant to the applicable requirements of the law, such as standard contractual clauses, the individual’s consent, or in other circumstances permitted by European data protection law.
At any time, you may object to the processing of your Personal Data, on legitimate grounds, except if otherwise permitted by applicable law. If you believe your right to privacy granted by applicable data protection laws has been infringed upon, please contact AG’s Data Protection Officer at privacy@athleticgreens.com. You also have a right to lodge a complaint with data protection authorities.
California residents may have additional personal information rights and choices. Please see the section entitled “Your California Privacy Rights” immediately below for more information.
California's "Shine the Light" law (Civil Code Section § 1798.83) permits users that are California residents to request certain information regarding our disclosure of personal information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes. To make such a request, please send an email to privacy@athleticgreens.com.
To the extent there is any conflict between applicable law (including, without limitation, California law) and the provisions contained in this Privacy Policy, the terms of such applicable law shall control and the terms of this Privacy Policy shall be deemed to be amended to the extent necessary for such terms to comply with such applicable law.
We will not sell your personal information. As we explain in this Privacy Policy, we use cookies and other tracking technologies for analytics and to facilitate advertising. If you would like to opt out of our (and our third party advertising partners’) use of cookies and other tracking technologies, please review the instructions provided in the Online Tracking Opt-out Guide.
billing information is retained for a period of seven (7) years as of their provision to AG in accordance with applicable accounting and taxation laws;
information on legal transactions between you and AG is retained for a period of seven (7) years as of their provision to AG in accordance with the general limitation period set for civil claims in applicable law.
To review and update your Personal Data to ensure it is accurate, contact us at support@athleticgreens.com.
If you believe your Personal Data has been used in a way that is not consistent with this Privacy Policy, we invite you to contact us first at privacy@athleticgreens.com. We will make all efforts to resolve your complaints timely and accurately. Further, we have committed to cooperate with EU and Swiss Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) and the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner (FDPIC), and to comply with the information and advice provided by such authorities with regard to data transferred from the EU and Switzerland.
Like many companies online, we may use services provided by Google, Facebook, Twitter and other companies that use tracking technology. These services rely on tracking technologies – such as cookies and web beacons – to collect directly from your device information about your browsing activities, your interactions with websites, and the device you are using to connect to the Internet. There are a number of ways to opt out of having your online activity and device data collected through these services, which we have summarized below:
Your mobile device settings may provide functionality to limit use of the advertising ID associated with your mobile device for interest-based advertising purposes.
You can block our websites from setting cookies used for interest-based ads by using a browser with privacy features, like Brave, or installing browser plugins like Privacy Badger, Ghostery or uBlock Origin, and configuring them to block third party cookies/trackers. You can also opt-out of Google Analytics by downloading and installing the browser plug-in available at: https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout.
The following advertising partners offer opt-out features that let you opt-out of use of your information for interest-based advertising:
You can also use these opt-out options to limit use of your information for interest-based advertising by participating companies:
It's not the first time dealers have flocked to Jamestown. In the 1990s a Brooklyn drug dealer named Nushawn Williams knowingly infected scores of local women with HIV by having unprotected sex with them. At the time, crack and powder cocaine were the illegal drugs of choice. Now dealers from bigger cities are plying Jamestown with heroin.
"It's supply and demand," says Robert Samuelson, commander of the Jamestown Police Department's administration and support services division. "People are coming from Buffalo, Pennsylvania, you name it."
Samuelson says the town has experienced previously unseen gun violence including drive-by shootings, as well as a spike in property crimes linked to heroin.
"We didn't see heroin coming until late 2011, and then it started showing up in possession and overdoses," he says. "In the '80s heroin was considered what junkies use, the low-lifes you never saw. Now we have businessmen overdosing."
In 2012 Jamestown formed a metropolitan drug task force focused on the heroin influx. That same year, the task force seized 119 bags of heroin. In 2013 it seized 826 bags; in 2014, it seized 5,110 bags, which equates to 18 ounces; in 2015, it seized 31.6 ounces. In 2016 police confiscated 1,100 bags, though locals say the drug was as prevalent as ever.
The task force teamed up with state and federal authorities in 2014 for its Operation Horseback drug bust, in which 47 people were indicted and $60,000 worth of heroin (and quite a few firearms) were captured. But those dealers didn't end up doing much jail time. While Samuelson refuses to consider a decriminalization approach with safe injection sites similar to those proposed by Ithaca and Seattle, he does support a larger public health approach. Since 2015 all Jamestown officers carry Narcan.
Even though many opioid addicts have switched from painkillers to heroin as their drug of choice, Jamestown locals say black market prescription painkillers are still easy to get. There are always relatives, friends, neighbors who can lend a helping hand.
Zack describes one pill dealer, an older woman "with knick knacks and the 'Learn, Live, Laugh' wall-hanging" in her apartment: "She would ask, 'Have you eaten?' and feed you pork chops" after making a deal.
Such transactions happen mostly beyond the reach of law enforcement, and the drug task force does not keep a tally of prescription drug seizures or arrests, which usually only result in misdemeanor charges, Samuelson says.
Because Jamestown is a working-class town, built mostly on industrial jobs, many residents have suffered workplace injuries or simply the physical stress of jobs that entail repetitive motions and heavy lifting. A 2013 state assessment of health in Chautauqua County found there were 397 work-related hospitalizations for every 100,000 employed people between 2009 and 2011, compared to 171 for the state as a whole.
Among Jamestown residents middle-aged or older, it is common to rely on prescription painkillers as a way to get their bodies through the day and continue working.
On Foote Avenue in Jamestown, on a hillside just above the Chadakoin River, a historic quaint pink building houses the Chautauqua Pain Medicine Institute. Right next to it sits Family Medical Health Services, a clinic where Germain and her grandmother, Adrian Smith, were prescribed painkillers. Many residents over the years have gone to these centers for prescriptions to manage their chronic pain. Chanda Lynn and Adrian both wonder why a town of 30,000 needs two adjacent clinics offering pain medicine, which can also be prescribed by doctors at the medical center just up the hill. (Representatives at both clinics did not respond to multiple interview requests.)
It took Adrian three decades of painkiller use to realize the extent of her addiction. When her regular doctor only downplayed her fears and offered no advice on getting clean, Adrian turned to her granddaughter for help. Chanda Lynn bought Suboxone (the brand name for buprenorphine, a prescription opioid medication used to treat opioid addiction) on the street, and helped her grandmother use decreasing amounts to wean herself off painkillers without going through withdrawal.
Suboxone, methadone, and the opioid blocker Vivitrol (naltrexone) are widely considered best practices for treatment of opioid addiction. But many people have difficulty obtaining treatment with these medications, which are highly regulated and may not be covered by insurance or Medicaid. (These drugs also make it onto the black market, and stories abound of people becoming addicted to and overdosing on Suboxone and methadone; Vivitrol blocks opioid receptors and is not an opioid itself, so it does not pose that risk.)
If your spouse, partner or any loved one has just undergone a spine procedure like a fusion surgery, discectomy or any corrective spinal procedure, you probably have questions about their recovery and how you fit into the process. Your loved one needs your support, and here are some ideal tips you can use to help them heal.
Depending on the degree of the procedure performed, your loved one may need help doing simple tasks like getting in and out of bed, getting dressed, reaching or bending down. Many patients experience periods of temporary limited mobility, so speak with them to find out what their boundaries are after surgery. Most patients should not drive for 1-2 weeks after surgery.
Many doctors recommend returning to light physical activity shortly after surgery. This could include short walks or swimming after the surgical wound heals. When recovering people experience pain, it can come along with the temptation to stay inactive. Be an advocate for following the doctor’s recommendations, and offer to take part in your loved one’s exercise routines.
Depending on how much recovery time is needed, a patient may be out for a matter of a few short weeks as with office work and other light-duty jobs. Those people working in jobs relating to heavier labor or otherwise intensive physical engagement may not be released for work duty for up to 6 months. Planning for potential lost income is something everyone should consider as part of the process of surgery and recovery.
Having surgery can arouse many emotions in the patient. Be an active listener and offer your compassionate support wherever you can. The pain and limited mobility that often comes with surgery can occasionally have a negative emotional impact, but this usually passes as the pain subsides and healing becomes more apparent.
When you’re tired, it’s easy to make poor food choices. Eating clean, healthy foods rich in nutrients, minerals and vitamins can help your body work more efficiently. Avoiding unhealthy foods can help reduce inflammation and also provide a mild mental boost.
If you or a loved one is considering surgical solutions for chronic neck or back pain, choosing a provider is an important step in the process. Only the best board-certified spine specialists are viable options. Back Pain Centers of America can help you find a quality specialist near you who can provide the expert care you need.

HJC CS-R3 Solid full face Helmet is a helmet that gives you an incredible amount of quality for basement level prices. Effective venting along with a plush and removable liner shows that when the time calls for saving, riding your motorcycle is one area that doesn’t have to suffer.

The former Disney Channel actress (So Random!, Sonny with a Chance) posted a photo on that social media site of herself and some friends and wrote as a caption:
Healthcare jobs, nurse job India ads India, Healthcare jobs, nurse job classifieds India, Healthcare jobs, nurse job free ads India, ads for sale India, ads to buy India, FREEADS in India Page number 6-1
India : Healthcare, nurse : Ads
Find free classifieds for Healthcare jobs, nurse job for sale or to buy in India. FREEADS in India offers you a platform to post free advertisements or classifieds for Healthcare jobs, nurse job, India. FREEADS in India helps you search, find, buy, sell, rent or hire in various categories like apartments, goods for sale, local services, cars , jobs and many more in India.
Shown below are ads available in Healthcare jobs, nurse job, India. You can use search box above to refine your search.
Results found: 390 | 1-30 | 31-60 | 61-90 | 91-120 | 121-150 | 151-180 | 181-210 | 211-240 | 241-270 | 271-300 | [>>90>>]
Rheumatologist in Jaipur | Arthritis Treatment in Jaipur
30-12-2015 10:53
Offering: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, Rajasthan	... View detailed ...
Offering: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, Kerala	... View detailed ...
Dinefresh offer a wide range of quality vegetables, fruits and healthy food products. Order online for home delivery in Trivandrum and have your fresh vegetables delivered direct at your doorstep. Organic Vegetables Pesticide free Vegetables Visit us at : http://www.dinefresh.in.
Online medical consultation may take important information
Offering: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, Madhya Pradesh	... View detailed ...
Health and Medical is a very , well effective and completely responsive option for Lcmass. It was made for health clinic, hospital, and dentist , or any other institution that specializes in health care. You can use online medical consultation.for more information visit@-http://lcmass.com/.
Online medical consultation must attract join of person
We are working towards best health care information making available at our site and blogs that will be helpful to all users and their family and friends. Please join lcmass to make India healthy and strong.Excellent for Watching expect advice from specialists without travel.Doctors and Students from India are invited to join the community to discuss their problems and aspirations Do you think online medical consultation really evolved enough to attract doctors from abroad.
Online medical consultation is better consult doctor or medicine
02-12-2015 08:27
An Online medical consultation marketing approach for medicine deliver important information and multimedia health education.Our information of some of the best doctors in the healthcare industry whom you can consult after booking an appointment online.for more information visit@-http://lcmass.com/.
Any medicine use through Online medical consultation
01-12-2015 07:53
There are numerous online medicinal consultation who can give helpful tips to guests for nothing out of pocket. Ensure that you are managing a bona fide, qualified specialist who has a demonstrated reputation. It is imperative you enquire about the specialist's practices and degrees. you then need to sign into your record where the specialist will tell you what treatment they believe is suitable and ok for you to buy.
Online medical consultation is the best way of reliable information on drugs
Online medical consultation is the best solution
You can simply ask more inquiries or include points of interest with subsequent inquiry choices and make it an online restorative conference talk. Along these lines you get the best esteem for your cash. Its like having your own particular own private specialist otherwise known as attendant solution.
Urgent Requirement for Neuro Physician in Multispecialty Hospital
We are Looking for Neuro Physician in Major Hospitals Qualification	: M.Ch/DNB Experience	: 1 to 3 years Locations : Salem - TN | Bangalore - KA Dibrugarh - AS | Thrissur - KL Please call us on 09000904067 or Email us to hcjobs@harneedi.com.
Immediate Job Openings for Gastroenterologist in Top Hospital
Offering: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, Maharashtra	... View detailed ...
We are Looking for Gastroenterologist in Top Hospital Qualification : DNB Experience : 0-4 years Locations	: Raipur-CG | Udaipur-RJ Mumbai-MH | Kakinada-AP Please call us on 09000904067 or email us on hcjobs@harneedi.com.
Jobs for Anesthesiologist in Multispecialty Hospital
We are Looking for Anesthesiologist in Major Hospitals Qualification	: DA/MD/DND(Anesthesiology) Experience	: 1 to 4 years Locations : Pune , Akola - MH | Kolar - KA Thriunelveli - TN | Durgapur - WB Please call us on 09000904067 or Email us to hcjobs@harneedi.com.
12-10-2015 07:04 Price: 9 000 INR Rs
Offering: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, Andhra Pradesh	... View detailed ...
Online Medical Transcription Training with 100% Job. 10 years exp faculty. Medical Coding Training. Ph: 9951183464 www.rxtranscode.com Home based medical transcription and coding training with job. 24x7 online support. India's best training center. Excellent audio and video support..
Hiring Cardiologist for Multispecialty Hospital
We are Looking for Cardiologist in Major Hospitals Qualification: DNB/DM - Cardiology Experience : 1-4 yrs Location : Mumbai - Maharashtra Vadodara - Gujarat Please call us on 09000904067 or email us on hcjobs@harneedi.com.
Urgent Requirement for Neuro Surgeons in Multispecialty Hospital
Wanted: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, Punjab	... View detailed ...
We are Looking for Neuro Surgeons in Top Hospital Qualification: M.Ch/DNB -Neuro Surgery Experience : 1-4 yrs Location : Jalandhar, Ludhiana - Punjab Dhule - Maharashtra Please call us on 09000904067 or email us on hcjobs@harneedi.com.
OVERSEAS HOSPITAL APPOINTMENTS: KUWAIT, SAUDI AND UAE
We are upcoming Hospital in Kuwait , Qatar and UAE. We required dedicate, excellent allied and paramedical staffs with good experience in Hospital, diagnostic centres. Doctors for all specialties, GNM, BSN nurses (Female) other female staff for Medical Records, Reception, Guest relations / customer.
Offering: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, West Bengal	... View detailed ...
Alternative Medical Council Calcutta AMCC conducts various courses in the field of Complimentary, Ayurveda, Holistic, Herbal Therapy, Paramedical sciences under various system of Alternative Medicines through its hundreds of affiliated Colleges/Institutes world wide under distance as well as regular mode of educational systems.
Best Sleep Disorder Treatment Center in Hyderabad.
02-07-2015 07:16
Now a days majority of the people facing sleep disorder problems due to stress and many other reasons. If it occurs normally there is no effects on health, But if that sleep problems are a regular occurrence in your daily life it negatively effects on your health. Sleep can often be a barometer of your overall health and the lack of quality sleep can have a negative impact on your energy and emotional balance.
MANGO AFRICANO ADELGAZANTE Y LIMPIADOR DE COLON PURIFICADOR
El Mango Africano es un fruto de un árbol procedente de África occidental. La semilla de mango africano trabaja principalmente favoreciendo la utilización de grasas como fuente de energía, pero en especial, actúa favoreciendo la reducción de la grasa abdominal. En especial ayuda a mejorar la sensibilidad a la Leptina.
medical staff selection by Siridi sai security services
26-02-2015 08:15
medical staff selection by Siridi sai security services physicians and dentists who are approved and given privileges to provide health care to patients in a hospital or other health care facility. Medical staff personnel may work full time or part time and may be employed by the facility or granted admitting privileges to practice, mig-b-354, chhend, Rourkela, sundargarh, odisha, india.
Male and Female staff nurse who can drive vehicle 0-3 exp
11-02-2015 09:06
Wanted: Healthcare jobs, nurse job in India, Kerala	... View detailed ...
150 MALE & FEMALE NURSES required urgently, Walk-in's start from 11th Feb to 28th Feb 2015 at Hyderabad. We are looking for Male Nurses for a reputed health care company in Hyderabad and nationally. Salary best in the industry for the right candidates. Apply today! Contact HR : 9849940967 or forward your cv to pmorolia@yahoo.
tablet manufacturers Chennai
03-01-2015 06:25 Price: 250 INR Rs
We engaged direct marketing by the company sales staff would also be undertaken to target the huge Private Medical facilities.
India ads for Healthcare jobs, nurse job, India, Healthcare jobs, nurse job free ads India, Healthcare jobs, nurse job for sale India, Healthcare jobs, nurse job to buy in India.
This page is a classified ads listing for Healthcare jobs, nurse job India. This listing includes classifieds for sale and to buy in India.
If you posted an advertisement on Healthcare jobs, nurse job, India before please use Edit my ads button to change or cancel your ad.
Healthcare jobs, nurse job India ads India, Healthcare jobs, nurse job classifieds India, Healthcare jobs, nurse job free ads India, ads for sale India, ads to buy India, FREEADS in India Page number 6-1. Find here ads for sale, to buy and rent in India. Goods for sale in India, vehicles for sale in India, India real estate for sale, India property for sale, property for rent in India, business ads in India, India business classifieds, services in India, India services ads, jobs in India, pets for sale in India, India dating, India cars for sale.
The university’s accounts receivable billing system (known as Billing, Accounts Receivable, and Collections, or BARC) consolidates debts owed to the university, including fees, campus owned housing expenses, and library fines. Students receive a monthly statement of their account status whenever they have financial obligations to the university. Fee payment deadlines are published quarterly on the Registrar website at registrar.sa.ucsb.edu/calinfo.aspx.

If you are in need of rhizotomy procedure in the Morgan Hill area, trust our pain management experts at Allied Pain & Spine Institute. Radiofrequency ablation, also known as a rhizotomy or RFA, involves the production of an electrical current that heats nerve tissue in order to reduce pain. This pain management treatment can be performed in the thoracic, lumbar, or cervical areas of the spine.
The Morgan Hill procedure takes about one hour, and patients are typically advised not to eat beforehand. X-ray imaging is used in order to guide the doctor to specific nerves. Before the nerve is targeted, a small electrical current is used to confirm the proper position. Many patients report experiencing only a mild, warm sensation during radiofrequency ablation.
February is American Heart Month and the time when we pay extra attention to our heart health. In addition to regular exercise, did you know that a regular therapeutic massage can be very beneficial for your heart and circulatory system? Right for the Mind and Body
One of the leading causes of heart problems is stress. These days, it seems as if stress levels are constantly on the rise. A good solution, that won't take a whole lot of time is a personal massage from Elements Massage™. Our expert massage therapists will help relax and relieve your stress and tension, helping to center your mind and your body. By reducing your stress level, you'll naturally lower your blood pressure. You'll notice a lot more than physical benefits, you'll find yourself more refreshed, sharp and full of energy. Improved Circulation When stress takes over your body, your muscles naturally tense. This is not good for your circulation. A regular massage from Elements Massage™ will help relieve the tension and increase circulation throughout your whole body. With good circulation, your body will pump more oxygen into tissues and vital organs. Increased circulation also helps improving your bodies largest organ – your skin. With proper circulation, your body will feel revitalized, you'll have more energy. Natural Healing If you have concerns about your heart, Elements Massage™ would love to help. Visit Elements Massage at Springs Ranch for a custom therapeutic massage. You'll be paired with one of our expert therapist. Then, your therapist will personalize your massage so that it fits your health concerns. Through a personalized, holistic massage, you'll reduce your stress, your blood pressure and your overall heart health. After your massage, you'll feel completely at peace with your mind and body. You'll feel refreshed and alert and on your way to a healthier lifestyle. Share your thoughts, leave a comment!
Clinical Trials Sponsored by PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals Inc. - Asitri Research
Query: "AREA[SponsorSearch](PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals Inc.)"
NCT05162131 Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, PK, and PD of PB2452 With and Without Ticagrelor Pretreatment in Chinese Healthy Volunteers
NCT04433546 Pemziviptadil (PB1046), a Long-acting, Sustained Release Human VIP Analogue, Intended to Provide Clinical Improvement to Hospitalized COVID-19 Patients at High Risk for Rapid Clinical Deterioration and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS).
NCT04286438 Bentracimab (PB2452) in Ticagrelor-treated Patients With Uncontrolled Major or Life-Threatening Bleeding or Requiring Urgent Surgery or Invasive Procedure
NCT04122170 Phase 2B Study to Evaluate the Efficacy of PB2452 in Reversal of Ticagrelor in Subjects Aged 50-80 Years Old
NCT03928353 Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, PK and PD of PB2452 in Healthy Younger, Older and Elderly Subjects
NCT03795428 Long-Term, Open Label Extension Study of Pemziviptadil (PB1046) in PAH Subjects Following Completion of Study PB1046-PT-CL-0004
NCT03556020 Phase 2 Study to Assess Safety, Tolerability and Efficacy of Once Weekly SC Pemziviptadil (PB1046) in Subjects With Symptomatic PAH
NCT03492385 Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, PK, and PD of PB2452 in Healthy Volunteers
NCT03315507 A Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, and Hemodynamic Response of PB1046 in Subjects With PAH
NCT02808585 Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability and PK Response and Explore the PD Response Following 4 Weekly SC Injections of PB1046 in Subjects With Stable Heart Failure With Reduced Ejection Fraction (HFrEF)
NCT02581657 Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, PK and PD Response of PE0139 Injection in Adult Subjects With T2DM
NCT01873885 Phase 1, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Exploratory Study That Will Assess the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Hemodynamic Response to a Single 30 Minute Intravenous Infusion of Vasomera™ (PB1046) in Adult Subjects With Stage 1 or 2 Essential Hypertension
NCT01835730 Phase 1 Multicenter, Single Ascending Dose Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Response of PE0139 Injection in Adult Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
NCT01658501 Phase 2b Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo- and Active-Controlled, Parallel-Group Study to Assess the PD Response and Safety of Three Dose Levels of (PB1023) Injection Following 20 Weeks of Weekly SC Dosing in Adults With T2DM
NCT01523067 Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics Response of Vasomera (PB1046) Injection Following a Single Subcutaneous Dose in Subjects With Stage 1 or 2 Essential Hypertension
NCT01478399 Pharmacokinetic, Safety/Tolerability Study of a Single SC Dose of PB1023 Injection in Subjects With Normal and Impaired Renal Function
NCT01427257 Pharmacokinetic Profile of Two Formulations of PB1023 Following Single Subcutaneous Injection in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
NCT01236404 Phase 1/2a, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Study to Assess Safety, Tolerability, PK and PD Response of PB1023 Injection Following Single and Multiple SQ Doses in Adults With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Orthopaedic cancers start in or travel to bone, muscle, or soft tissue. MedStar Health orthopaedic oncologists are leaders in the surgical advances and innovations to treat this type of cancer, including limb-sparing surgery, a modern technique that can save an affected arm or leg and avoid amputation.
At The National Center for Bone and Soft Tissue Tumors at MedStar Franklin Square Medical Center, we offer a comprehensive approach to treating these rare tumors, incorporating every resource we have to ensure our patients receive the best treatment available. Working with patients, their families, and referring physicians, our dedicated specialists provide expert guidance and support throughout the diagnosis and treatment process. Because of our experience, we frequently perform complex and revision surgeries referred from other medical centers in the country.
In addition to our advanced and compassionate clinical care, we have a highly successful, accredited fellowship training program and educate students and residents with an emphasis on our surgical services and research.
Benign orthopaedic tumors put pressure on healthy tissue but do not spread. They pose minimal risks and are considered non-cancerous. Some childhood benign tumors, such as bone cysts, may fully resolve over time as the bone matures with age.
Giant cell tumors occur around the knee or the ends of long bones and can quickly damage the bone. These tumors tend to affect young adults.
Chondroblastomas occur at the very ends of the long bones in the arms or legs and can damage the growth plate or joint surfaces. These tend to occur in children.
Aneurysmal bone cysts cause the bones in the arms, legs, trunk, or skull to expand dramatically. These tumors tend to affect children and younger adults and can damage bone and often grow back.
Osteoid osteomas may occur anywhere in any bone and are typically extremely painful, due to chemicals released by the tumor into the the surrounding nerves.
Giant cell tumors, chondroblastomas and aneurismal bone cysts are often treated with the same therapy, including a combination of:
Sarcomas are tumors that occur in bones or soft tissue such as muscles, fat, and nervous tissue, and are distinguished by the type of tissue from which they originate.
Primary tumors originate in the bones (less common than many other cancers that spread, or metastasize, to bone)
Secondary tumors begin in a different part of the body and spread to the bones. Primary bone tumors are.
Osteosarcoma, which forms osteoid or hard bone tissue, is the most common form of bone sarcoma, found in about 35 percent of cases. While it may occur at any age, it tends to affect children in late adolescence and appears most commonly around the knee.
Chondrosarcoma, which forms cartilage tissue, is found in about 30 percent of cases. It tends to affect adults older than 40, and appears in the hip, pelvic, and shoulder areas.
Ewing's Sarcoma, which develops in the lungs, bone or the pelvis, arises from cells of unknown origin. It tends to affect children younger than age 19, and appears in the legs and arms. It is more common in boys than girls.
Certain conditions, as well as exposure to certain chemicals, put people at higher risk for developing bone sarcomas, particularly osteosarcoma. These include:
Hereditary conditions, including a rare childhood eye cancer called hereditary retinoblastoma, and hereditary bone diseases, such as enchondromatosis and osteochondromatosis
As a sarcoma begins to develop, there may be no noticeable symptoms. However, over time, patients may feel:
History and physical examination: This includes feeling and looking at the area of pain, as well as gathering information about family medical history.
Imaging tests help to determine a tumor's size, shape, location and whether a tumor is benign or malignant. Imaging tests include:
Bone scan: a doctor injects and then tracks a radioactive substance through the blood. A scanner can detect the substance's route once it settles in the bones.
Blood work: tests for levels of alkaline phosphatase. This chemical in the blood may be higher than normal because of tumor growth in the bone tissue.
Biopsy: your doctor collects a tissue sample from the affected area to identify the exact type of tumor
After examining the results of one or more of these tests, your doctor will tell you if you have a bone sarcoma and will always answer any questions you have. MedStar Health also has compassionate patient support services for newly diagnosed patients.
Many patients will have success from a combination of treatment types. Each patient undergoes a thorough evaluation to determine the most effective course of treatment, which include
Soft tissue sarcomas are rare cancerous tumors that can grow in muscle, fat, nerves, and blood vessels, and they are distinguished by where in the body they originate. About half of all soft tissue sarcomas affect the arms and legs, while the rest appear in the head, neck, or trunk. Regardless of where they begin to grow, soft tissue sarcomas tend to present with similar characteristics and symptoms, and are treated the same way.
Fibrosarcoma: Develops from the tissues keeping bones, organs, and muscles secure and appears most often in the legs, arms, and trunk.
Leiomyosarcoma: Develops from smooth muscles used to control the movement of internal organs and blood vessels. These tumors tend to affect adults.
Lymphangiosarcoma: Develops from the lymph vessels, and appears in the arms. It tends to affect tissues that may have been exposed to radiation.
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma: Develops within muscle or fat, most often in the thighs and trunk. It tends to affect older adults.
Rhabdomyosarcoma: Develops from skeletal muscles used to move bones. It tends to affect young children, and appears most often in the arms and legs.
Synovial sarcoma: Develops from tissues that cushion the joints, such as knees and elbows. It tends to affect children and adolescents.
Certain conditions, as well as exposure to certain chemicals, put people at higher risk for developing soft tissue sarcomas. These include:
Hereditary conditions, including a rare childhood eye cancer called inherited retinoblastoma, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Gardner's syndrome, and a nerve tissue disorder called neurofibromatosis.
As the soft tissue sarcoma develops, patients may feel a lump. These sarcomas often do not cause pain or swelling, so it is important to have a doctor examine any lump that lasts a long time.
History and physical examination: This includes palpating (feeling) the tumor mass. as well as gathering information about family medical history.
Imaging tests help to determine a tumor's size, shape, location and whether a tumor is benign or malignant. Imaging tests include X-rays, CT and PET scans, and MRI
The sports medicine specialists at the MedStar Orthopaedic Institute have experience diagnosing and treating nearly every type of sports injury and condition, from the most common to those that are incredibly rare. Since no two patients have the same needs, our physicians take the time to design an individualized sports injury treatment plan for your specific case.
Our team of sports medicine physicians offers comprehensive care and treatment for all of your sports injuries, whether you’re a weekend warrior, play on a team or just enjoy some occasional exercise. Our experts are at the forefront of advanced therapies and minimally invasive procedures, giving you early access to new treatments. Our goal is to return you to the activity level you desire as soon as possible, with the least chance of reinjury.
We also offer numerous programs and services for those athletes or active individuals who are interested in sports injury prevention or are looking to enhance their sports performance, skills and abilities. Some of those programs and services are below.
The golf performance evaluation is a comprehensive physical examination performed by a licensed physical therapist specializing in techniques from Back to Golf©, Kinetic Golf© and Body Balance for Performance©. Our therapists are experienced in sports-specific training programs, functional stabilization, conditioning, and kinesiology. They also have sports medicine experience treating golf-related sports injuries and rehabilitating athletes at all levels of performance.
The information gathered from the evaluation is used to design a customized, golf-specific physical training program that will optimize your strength and improve the physical characteristics necessary to swing a golf club properly. The goal of the program is to achieve maximum distance, accuracy, control, and scoring potential while decreasing injury risk.
In addition to individual evaluations performed in our clinics, we give educational presentations to teams and golfing groups.
Proper nutrition is key to an athlete's success. Specific diets rich in differing ratios of carbohydrates, proteins, fats, and sugars are recommended for specific athletic events. For example, athletes in endurance sports generally do better with a high-carb, low-protein diet, while sports requiring incredible strength call for more protein. As a patient of the MedStar Orthopaedic Institute, you have access to the expertise of registered dietitians to assist with developing a proper diet specific to your physical needs and the sports you play.
Orthotics devices worn in your shoe can realign your foot and reduce some of the sports injuries that begin at the foot and travel upward. Because your feet are your body's main shock absorbers, a number of sports injuries and conditions can arise when your feet are compromised. If used properly, orthotics can absorb the shock, reducing the risk of injury. The experts at the MedStar Orthopaedic Institute offer complete prosthetic and orthotic services for adults, adolescents and children.
At the MedStar Orthopaedic Institute, we take a balanced approach to fitness by developing a customized exercise program designed to meet your specific sports injury prevention or treatment needs and goals. Many of our patients have medical issues, and we highly encourage them to continue exercising following discharge from therapy to achieve better health.
Our trainers are certified through the National Strength and Conditioning Association and have experience working with a wide range of physical limitations that restrict patients' ability to exercise.
Services—including yoga, general fitness and post-rehabilitation for breast cancer patients—are provided at several locations and may also be arranged at your home or gym.
Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) is a sports injury treatment option that uses your own blood to facilitate healing. Essentially, specialists using this technique draw your blood and separate out the platelet portion. Platelets have been shown to release healing proteins called growth factors that work together to coordinate tissue healing. By injecting a high concentration of platelets into injured soft tissues, physicians intend to speed up the healing process.
Much work remains to be done in exploring the application and utility of PRP. Our regeneration lab at the MedStar National Rehabilitation Hospital has recently been awarded a grant to explore the application of PRP in shoulder tendinopathies. This and future studies will provide great insight into this promising sports injury treatment, paving the way to a better understanding of common and disabling sports injuries.
The MedStar Orthopaedic Institute offers a research-based evaluation to assist athletes in their return to full competition. The program uses video motion analysis software and objective criteria to determine if you are functionally ready to return to play. The scientifically based testing identifies deficits in strength, power and/or biomechanics that increase your risk of lower-extremity sports injury. Participants in the program also receive a comprehensive exercise program to address those deficits and are instructed in proper jump-landing mechanics until you can pass the return-to-play criteria.
MedStar National Rehabilitation Network's Running Injury Clinics combine highly skilled therapists with cutting-edge technology. More information is available here.
The MedStar Orthopaedic Institute specializes in individualized programs for youth, collegiate and professional level athletes, as well as casual weekend sports participants. Our goal is to enhance the conditioning, human performance, sports injury prevention, and participation ability of athletes who are interested in achieving their greatest potential.
It is our goal to bring the latest research in training and sports injury prevention to the baseball community. Injuries seen previously only in professional pitchers are now commonplace in players of any position in high school and younger. The great majority of these are overuse/repetitive strain injuries that could be prevented with:
We offer throwing evaluations to prevent sports injuries and keep you in the game. Evaluations include assessment of posture, strength and flexibility for the arm, core and lower extremities. We then use those findings to customize exercise programs that will be most beneficial for each individual athlete. After completing the program, most pitchers are able to throw harder and with better control while decreasing their risk of injury and surgery.
In addition to individual evaluations performed in our clinics, we give educational presentations to camps, teams and leagues outside the clinic.
If you are an athlete with running injuries, Dynamic Video Gait Analysis (DVGA) may help solve your sports injury problem. The MedStar Orthopaedic Institute’s sports performance experts are able to assess problems of the foot and lower extremity that may be causing your pain or symptoms.
Multiple high-speed cameras identify reflective markers placed on several parts of your body, including the torso, hip, knees, and feet. These markers are a reference point for several camera angles, which pick up any abnormal movement of these joints while you run on a treadmill. Once the motion is recorded, a specialized computer software program pinpoints which joints are functioning incorrectly.
If joint alignment problems are discovered, a personalized sports medicine program is developed for the runner, which may include physical therapy for strengthening and flexibility, orthotic devices, or training and shoe modifications.
Your shoulder is one of the most widely used joints in the body, and all of the wear and tear causes many injuries. If you suffer from a shoulder injury, our top priority is eliminating the cause of your pain so you can resume using your arm with comfort and strength. The orthopedic shoulder treatment specialists at the MedStar Orthopaedic Institute dedicate themselves entirely to that priority. We care for a wide range of disorders and offer shoulder treatments and surgery options to relieve everything from a sports-related injury to a degenerative disease.
The rotator cuff is made of four muscles that attach to the shoulder blade (scapula) and wrap around the front, back and top of your shoulder. Together, these muscles help guide the shoulder through many motions and also lend stability to the joint. The ends of the rotator cuff muscles form tendons that attach to the arm bone (humerus). A variety of conditions and injuries can damage the rotator cuff, cause pain and make it difficult for you to move your arm.
In many cases, rotator cuff tears can be repaired with physical therapy and cortisone injections. However, when nonsurgical treatment does not improve your symptoms, arthroscopic rotator cuff repair may be necessary.
Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is a minimally invasive technique, which uses an arthroscope, or thin, flexible tube equipped with a small camera. Your surgeon inserts the arthroscope through a small incision in your shoulder in order to gain access to your arm bone. The camera magnifies your injury onto a screen and allows your surgeon to visualize the damage in detail. The surgeon can then repair your tissue and restore the torn cuff to its correct position at the top of your arm bone very precisely without affecting any surrounding tissue.
Following this procedure, your shoulder will need to be immobilized in order to protect the newly placed sutures from being disrupted. After one or two weeks, you will begin physical therapy, followed by active lifting with the arm after four to six weeks. It will generally take four to six months to completely recover.
If you suffer from chronic shoulder instability, you may be a good candidate for coracoid transfer surgery. This type of shoulder surgery is particularly helpful for patients who have had shoulder stabilization procedures previously or who are missing bones in the front of the shoulder socket.
In this open surgery technique, also known as the Latarjet procedure, your surgeon makes an incision at the front of your shoulder. The surgeon then transfers a piece of bone from the front of your shoulder blade to the front of your shoulder socket, helping to hold the ball in the socket of your shoulder joint and providing extra protection against continual dislocation of the joint.
Following the procedure, you may need to remain in the hospital overnight, and you may meet with a physiotherapist and/or an occupational therapist to learn appropriate exercises for your arm. You will need to keep your arm in a sling for a few weeks, and your surgeon and therapists will determine when you may return to your regular activities.
Used to treat conditions such as shoulder dislocations or instability, open Bankart repair helps lock the ball back into the socket of the shoulder joint. In this procedure, your orthopedic surgeon will repair damaged ligaments and cartilage through an incision in the front of your shoulder.
Following the procedure, you will start on exercises that will be provided by a physical therapist. You will be able to return to many of your daily activities quickly, but you will not be able to lift heavy objects for a couple months. If you are involved in sports, you may be able to return to training after three months, but you can typically return to low-risk activities (such as swimming or jogging) about eight to 10 weeks after surgery.
You may be a good candidate for open Bankart repair if you suffer from severe shoulder instability and have not found relief from medication, physical therapy or other nonsurgical techniques. We also often use this method to help patients who have previously had unsuccessful shoulder surgery.
Arthritis can make it difficult and painful to perform even the simplest daily tasks. If nonsurgical treatment options are not improving your condition, shoulder replacement surgery can mean the difference between being dependent on others and an independent life at home or in the community.
Total shoulder replacement is a surgical procedure performed by an orthopedic surgeon with special training in joint replacement. It is very effective at relieving pain and improving function. During the procedure, your surgeon replaces the damaged parts of your joints with artificial parts, called a prosthesis. The treatment options are either replacement of just the head of the humerus bone (ball) or replacement of both the ball and the socket.
You will likely be able to go home between one and three days following the surgery. You will feel some pain, but medication can help to manage it. You will need to start a rehabilitation program soon after the surgery, and your surgeon or physical therapist will help to develop a program for you.
An alternative is reverse total shoulder replacement. In this open surgery, your orthopedic surgeon replaces worn away cartilage and changes the position of the ball and socket joint so you can use a different set of healthy muscles to move your arm (instead of your damaged rotator cuff muscles).
During the procedure, your surgeon makes an incision either on the front or the top of your shoulder. Your surgeon then removes the damaged bone and positions the new ball and socket joint.
You will likely return home on the second or third day following surgery. You will need to wear a sling for a few weeks, as well as complete gentle range of motion exercises. Your surgeon may recommend a physical therapy program as well. Most patients are able to regain full use of their shoulder after approximately six weeks.
If a total joint replacement becomes infected, the health of your shoulder and arm, as well as your overall health, becomes an immediate concern.
In some cases, only the skin or soft tissues around the joint are infected, and it has not spread to the artificial joint. In this case, you may be treated with intravenous (IV) or oral antibiotics. If the infection has spread to the artificial joint, you will likely require surgical treatment, such as debridement or staged surgery.
Debridement may be appropriate if the infection is caught within the first few days. During this procedure, your surgeon removes the contaminated soft tissues, cleans the implant and replaces plastic liners or spacers. After the procedure, you will receive antibiotics for approximately six weeks.
When the infection has been present for more than a few days, staged surgery is generally needed. During the first phase of this treatment, your surgeon will remove your implant, wash the joint and soft tissues, place an antibiotic spacer to maintain normal spacing and alignment, and prescribe approximately six weeks of IV antibiotics. When the infection has been cured, your surgeon will remove the antibiotic spacer, wash the joint and reimplant your shoulder.
Before hitting the greens, tennis court or swimming pool, consider these tips to help prevent shoulder injuries:
Practice proper technique. Learn and practice the proper techniques for sports that are hard on the shoulders. For example, swimmers can help save their shoulders by placing their fingers or pinkies in the water first, not their thumbs, during freestyle.
Ease into exercise. Warm up with light activity such as jogging in place or jumping rope for several minutes. Then stretch your shoulders and the other muscles you'll be using. Try this shoulder stretch: Lace your fingers together and then push your arms over your head with your palms facing up. Hold for 15 seconds. Repeat five to 10 times. Be certain to also stretch after you've finished exercising.
When the muscles surrounding the shoulder are strong, there's less stress on the shoulder itself. Strengthening the shoulder muscles also helps to prevent injuries. To build your shoulder muscles, grasp an unopened soup can in each hand. Point your thumbs to the ground and keep your elbows straight. Raise your arms to waist level and slowly lower them, as if you were flapping your arms. Repeat five to 15 times. Do two or three sets.
Health Care Services (POL 18/2016) | Saskatchewan Workers' Compensation Board
POL 18/2016
To establish entitlement and guidelines for the provision of health care services to injured workers.
Health Care Professional, also referred to as a health care provider, means "a physician, dentist, chiropractor, optometrist, psychologist, occupational therapist, physical therapist, nurse or any other person who is registered or licensed pursuant to any Act to practise any of the healing arts" (Section 2(1)(p) of the Act).
Evidence-Based Practice means the use of accepted external clinical evidence and individual clinical expertise in making decisions about the diagnosis and care of a patient by a health care professional.
In order to minimize the impact of a worker's injury and to promote successful long-term recovery, the WCB follows a Continuum of Care model that facilitates quality health care and an appropriate return-to-work (POL 08/2014, Continuum of Care). This includes:
Paying for or reimbursing suitable health care to treat a worker whose injuries arose out of and in the course of employment, and
Supporting the functional rehabilitation model which recognizes the importance of returning the injured worker to functional activities relevant to their life, including returning to work, during the recovery period. The functional rehabilitation model encourages health care providers and workers to recognize that successful long-term recovery is associated with return to function, even in the presence of increasing subjective symptoms where there are no objective signs of harm.
WCB will only fund the costs of health care services when:
The treatment is provided or referred by a licensed health care provider, and
The treatment is within the treating health care provider's scope of practice.
Treatment provided to WCB customers must be:
Listed in a Medical Services Payment Schedule established through the Saskatchewan Ministry of Health, or
Listed in a fee schedule established by WCB and, where applicable, health care provider groups, or
Deemed appropriate and recognized by evidence-based practice to be effective in treating the worker's injury.
WCB recognizes several health care provider disciplines (see appendix). These include:
Physicians licensed to practice in North America.
Health care providers accredited and funded by the Saskatchewan Ministry of Health (e.g., chiropractors).
Health care providers licensed with a legislated, self-regulating national or provincial body, and accredited by WCB for each location in which they treat customers (e.g., physical therapists).
Health care providers who are registered with a national or provincial body that is not self-regulating, but is scientifically accepted and accredited by WCB for being effective in the treatment of workplace injuries or return-to-work planning (e.g., exercise therapists).
If a health care provider group is not accredited through the Saskatchewan Ministry of Health, WCB will attempt to create an accreditation process to ensure that the health care provider is qualified and is in good standing with a legislated, self-regulating body or a representative professional organization.
If a health care provider group does not wish to participate with the WCB to create an accreditation process, the WCB may establish accreditation standards, applicable only to services provided to WCB customers, using the expertise of WCB's Health Care Services (HCS).
WCB may approve payment to an unaccredited health care provider that offers infrequent service to WCB customers (e.g., naturopaths or orthotists). Prior to approving any such treatment, WCB will perform a review to ensure the unaccredited health care provider is registered with a national or provincial representative professional organization and that any proposed treatment(s) follow evidenced-based practice.
Out-of-province health care providers will be reviewed by WCB to ensure they meet the accreditation standards of:
WCB will establish procedures, practice standards and fee schedules, for recognized health care provider groups. Additional health care provider groups may be added to the list of recognized disciplines through procedure where WCB deems the type of care to be supported by appropriate scientific evidence.
Where an out-of-province health care provider proposes a fee not listed in a WCB fee schedule, HCS will perform a review to determine the fee's appropriateness.
Health care providers will establish direct billing to WCB for each customer and will bill according to the WCB endorsed fee schedule. If a health care provider demands and receives from the customer a fee in excess of that determined by the WCB, the WCB will contact the health care provider to request a refund for the customer and the WCB will pay the appropriate WCB approved fee. Where the refund is not provided, the extra billing will be recovered from the WCB payment to the health care provider or deducted from any future amount owed to the health care provider.
Animals also need physical therapy to recover from injury or improve athletic performance. Pet rehabilitation therapy is a cornerstone of veterinary care for health and recovery beyond traditional medicinal pain management.
We offer the most comprehensive therapy services possible.
How Pet Therapy Works
Much like physical therapy in people, pet rehabilitation focuses on the relationships among muscles, bones, nerves, tendons, and ligaments in order to relieve pain and improve function.
Pets who undergo our rehabilitation services are assessed individually and a treatment plan is designed based on the patient’s needs. Most pets benefit from a multifaceted approach incorporated with multiple therapies.
