Best to review the ECG findings with your daughter’s doctor….and either put your mind at ease or settle on the need for some further investigation.
Hey, came across you site looking up some info on heart health. I was diagnosed with a mild MR back in high school and after seeing a cardiologist to sign off that my condition wasn’t too serious I never really thought much of it again. I recently purchased a Fitbit and found that I have a resting heart rate of about 45-48 BPM. I’ve always been highly active and in good physical condition and I’m also pretty young. So if I am understanding your feedback to other questions correctly, my murmur may be a result of all the physical activity and my low BPM is indication of this? Thanks in advance
Yes, there are “innocent” murmurs that merely reflect normal blood flow through the heart. And yes, a low heart rate can be the result of exercise.
I’m 27. Run an Mma gym. I work or about 2 to 3 hours a day very high intensity preparing for competitions. I am having some wierd blood pressure readings so I went to the doc. She believes it to be anxiety and sleep apnea…but then we did an ekg. Well it was abnormal. She said I def have an enlarged heart…but that there was something indicating a possible abnormality in flow. When she pointed it in the ekg. It was a small peak in between the two big peaks that she explained indicated an enlarged heart. So she reccomend es an echo. I said well what does this truly mean. Best and worst case. She said worst case this could indicate you are at risk of heart attack and you will be told to never exercise strenuously again…best case it’s normal. Well….seeing as how martial arts are my life and I am only 27….I AM In SHOCK. Am I over thinking or over exaggerating? Should I be concerned?
An echocardiogram is often useful for evaluating the structure of the heart to help explain some types of ECG abnormalities.
Hello, great article. I’m a 55 yr old male who has recently begun aerobic exercise after many years of being sedentary. I’ve been doing about 200 minutes weekly of treadmill running with a heart rate monitor, for the most part keeping my heart rate under 132 BPM in order to maximize aerobic adaptations. I feel like I’m making progress, (slowly) and after 10 weeks, my resting heart rate has decreased from its initial 62 bpm to about 55 bpm. My 2 minute recovery heart rate, originally about 36 bpm, now is 49 bpm. I feel like I’m making progress. Here’s my concern. A few weeks ago, I decided to go all out and run a mile. I ran it at a 10min/mi rate, and my heart rate slowly climbed, reaching maximum near the end. Later when looking at the heart rate graph, I noticed a trough, 29 seconds near the very end of my run in which the heart rate dropped 6 points, (to 155 ppm) and stayed there, for a full 29 second, before jumping back up 6 ppm for a few seconds, at which point I ended my run. I noticed nothing unusual on that run, except that of course I was exhausted near the end. I showed a few people the graph, a few athletes, and they think the trough is simply an artifact. Thing is, although I’ve had complete drop outs before (which ended after a battery change) I’ve never seen a trough like this. Also, the graph doesn’t drop immediately to 155, as there is one second of an intermediate rate going into the trough, (157BPM,) and a two seconds of intermediate beats again on the way back up, 29 seconds later. The heart monitor is making recoding measurements every one second. I’ve examined the RAW FIT file that the Garmin monitor produces . It especially concerns me since the trough occurs near the maximum heart rate. Prior to this run, I’ve gotten my heart rate as high as 156,(on what seemed like less than maximal efforts) but never as high as on this run. I have no known heart disease. The battery in the monitor was brand new. Thanks in advance! You can take a look at the data here: http://sporttracks.mobi/activity/9649642
Not sure what to make of this. Wasn’t able to access the data file. As you’ve mentioned, artifact is a possibility. It’s unusual to be bothered by an arrhythmia that has a lower HR than your exertional HR.
It’s only happened the one time. I’ve only had my heart rate over 150 bpm maybe six or seven times, and over 160 ppm twice, including the time in question. I’m using a chest band sensor together with a Garmin watch. I know the problem is not with the watch itself, because the sensor in the chest band stores data in its memory, and I downloaded the data separately to my iPhone to see if the trough is visible that way. Data has the same trough. The chest sensor itself could be creating an artifact I possibly. You can see the entire file here: https://sporttracks.mobi/activity/9820921
It’s much longer duration, because the chest sensor was recording all the way on the drive to the track, as well as for a one mile walk I did prior to the run. You can also see the data after the run concluded, as I walked back to my car. The trough is at the 43 minute mark.
I’ve recently become an owner of a fitness watch that keeps track of the wearers heart rate. I’ve read your article and looking at the readings on my watch it would seem that I would have an athletes heart, but I am far from ‘well trained’ and the only exercise I really do is jam roller skating. I’m not sure if I should be worried that my regular BPM is around 55. Oh and it might be worth mentioning that large blood veins is common in my family. Is it possible to have ‘athletes heart’ without being a real ‘athleet’?
Vapor Forrest CBD Wholesale Around Oakland 94602 CA
Vapor Forrest Vape Wholesale in Oakland 94602 CA . Buy CBD Edibles, e-liquid by top brand such as Element Made In USA E-liquid, MEGA E-Liquids as well as SVRF
CBD oil has the capacity to lower high blood pressure in the body. You require to be very careful at the time of combining it with prescription-based hypertension medications. This is because the mixed impact of CBD as well as medications can reduce the level of high blood pressure to a considerably reduced level.
In this write-up, we will certainly find out about the potential interactions of CBD with typical kinds of prescriptions, that include high blood pressure medications.
CBD is categorized as a phytocannabinoid. The drawn out kind of Cannabis is utilized in the prep work of different products that include edibles, oil topicals, e-liquids, and also casts. CBD products are known for their effective anti-inflammatory as well as antioxidant buildings that make it a powerful blood stress reducing supplement.
JustCBD Shop is the reputed seller of CBD oil tincture and also various other CBD items at the most competitive rate. Their substantial collection of premium quality products is reliable in the recovery of a large variety of health and wellness ailments such as pain, anxiety, microbial infection, swelling, obesity, and extra.
Things to take into consideration when learn this here now taking in CBD Oil with High Blood Pressure Medicine
If you are taking CBD together with a couple of usual drugs that go for the therapy of hypertension, there you need to take into consideration a few things before integrating cannabidiol oil in your diet regimen.
CBD oil is identified as a completely secure and also well-tolerated substance with lesser-known side results. However, wellness experts think that it can negatively influence the effectiveness of medicines to control blood pressure in the body. These medications are seen to decrease the efficiency of CBD oil.
In a few instances, high blood pressure medications extend and/or lower the healing effects of CBD products. In various other cases, it can postpone and/or lower the efficiency of the agreed blood stress medicine.
How to make certain the risk-free use High blood pressure Drug and CBD Oil?
When utilizing CBD oil for blood stress monitoring as a higher dose can enhance the combined result of drug as well as supplement, it is required that you need to be conscientious of dosage.
Beginning with a reduced dose than the recommended dosage and gradually raise it with time as required by the body. This will certainly assist the body to enable create a tolerance in the direction of CBD oil as well as additionally reduce the opportunities of a drastic decrease in the blood pressure.
If you depend on blood pressure medicine as well as desire to include CBD oil as a supplement to your existing treatment strategy, then you ought to begin with its low dosage so that it doesn't create any type of remarkable reduction in blood stress levels in the body. Maintaining your medical professional in the loophole will certainly aid you administer the best dosage to get risk-free arise from CBD consumption.
CBD oil has the capacity to reduced blood stress in the body. CBD is categorized as a phytocannabinoid. CBD products are known for their effective anti-inflammatory and also antioxidant properties that make it a powerful blood stress lowering supplement.
CBD oil is recognized as a entirely risk-free as well as well-tolerated compound with lesser-known side effects. These medicines are seen to minimize the effectiveness of CBD oil.
13th Floor Elevapors Nic Salt E Liquids prides by itself see here now in originality and specialty flavors. Luckily for us, you don't have to journey every one of the technique to the 13th floor to obtain it. Just get one of their very-suggested e liquids and vape your way to an elite membership of users who will explain The actual flavors this assortment promotes. certain, you've got had your milky vape juices, but vanilla milk? We're ready to bet that's a fresh one you can add to the ought to-attempt listing. How with regard to the taste of Kentucky flue-cured tobacco? We know You will be the envy of all your simple vaping good friends When you've got to explain what that even signifies. The unusual pairing of Dripped Life E-Liquid tangy citrus and icy mint isn't going to appear to be a style you'd decide to, but when you finally consider 1 pull in their innovative melding of the two flavors, you may definitely be hooked.
Hey there fellow Vapers! We belief you are well! At Severus Vape Co we are aware that our prospects like to see new juices and don't love to begin to see the standard dull things and we are very pleased to deliver to South Africa one particular United states's greatest juices!
So in its place, we've remaining 10ml of Place for you to add a nicotine shot to make it nicotine made up of. For use in sub-ohm tanks only.
Get a very good deal with more substantial reductions: Liquorice just £one is legitimate now @ 88 Vape, and use this wonderful double deal lower price when you buy upcoming time. simply click now to 88vape.co.British isles to snag this discount rates. as well as, receive a absolutely free reward with selected products.
A:It truly is normally great to own alternatives. The goal Dripped Life E-Liquid of cigarette is currently being served even though getting flavors apart from tobacco.
Take note: Descriptions, specs, and claims are according to manufacturer other data. information and facts mentioned and supplied are for use at the only real discretion of the consumer and so are not consultant of analysis, tests, and verification by VaporDNA and any and all of VaporDNA's recommended you read dad or mum and subsidiary businesses. There is certainly an inherent threat with the use of any and all rechargeable batteries in almost any circumstance.
it really is crafted by by far the most skilled flavourists and chemists from the marketplace and is also backed up by 8 several years of enterprise practical experience in developing high quality e-liquids.
By clicking via and intending to breazy.com you concur you are at least 21 a long time outdated or maybe the lawful minimum age to buy tobacco products and solutions with your jurisdiction. after you have a look at on breazy.com you conform to experience an age verification approach that should verify your age, deal with, and id by way of a general public database and our inside specialists. You agree that you're going to not resell any product(s) you buy from breazy.
If You are looking for probably the most reliable tobacco flavoured e liquid, then British Tobacco must be the most popular juice out there. British Tobacco is made by Hangsen and accredited by SmokShop.
Frank 'N Vape is made up of white fluffy marshmallows blended in Terrifying berry cereal drenched in sweet milky undertones. This flavor is unquestionably certainly one of a kind and an instant preferred to cereal enthusiasts to choose from!
But are all tobacco juices the same? We provide numerous flavoured e liquids and know a issue or two about what tends to make an incredible tobacco juice. We've run through ten of the greatest, so for those who're an ex-smoker or a different vaper and need your e cigarette to get as near as possible to a real cigarette, you're guaranteed to locate some thing you'll like in this article.
the thought of steeping will be to improve your juice's flavour. should you get pleasure from your e-liquid as it truly is, you don't really need to steep it, but just start vaping immediately.
locating a way to satisfy your Dripped Life E-Liquid browsing need? creating great use of the fantastic supply 'Dessert Flavour VG E Liquid commencing at £3' from 88 Vape, it's easy to put your be concerned absent. Never Permit it slip via your finger! This provide is true listed here watching for you!
88 Vape free delivery Policy If you love Everything you buy, but dislike having to pay additional for shipping and delivery, just buy what you like with 88 Vape membership, and You'll be able to consider them back with out transport payment. Attain good financial savings with verified 88 Vape free delivery code and Discount coupons for September.
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia - https://wn.com/Molecular_Cell
Latest News for: molecular & cell biology
The research groups led by Dr ... Caren Norden of the Max Planck Institute for Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics (MPI-CBG) have developed a novel synthetic antibody that paves the way for an improved functional analysis of proteins. They combined auxin-inducible "protein knockdown" with a synthetic antibody to not only observe fluorescent proteins in living cells but also to rapidly remove them in a temporally controlled manner ... ....
Sponges (Porifera) represent one of the most basally branching animal clades with key relevance for evolutionary studies, stem cell biology and development. Despite a long history of sponges as experimental model systems, however, functional molecular studies are still very difficult to perform in these animals....
... medicine at Bristol and the second B, in biology, meant I wouldn't be going to medical school at all ... I learned, in equal measure, about the molecular biology of cells and the best way to body paint for a fancy dress night out ... I learned, in equal measure, about the molecular biology of cells ​and the best way to apply body paint for a night out....
... service offerings, premium veterinary services, new vaccines against livestock diseases and stem cells therapy to treat animals. Trends in the laboratory services include molecular biology advances aiding new diagnostic tool offerings, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for early disease detection, and handheld technology use for medical examinations....
Patents Awarded a Canadian patent covering the use of Biocept's microchannels for the capture and detection of any target of interest, including proteins and nucleic acids, as well as the capture of cancer or other cells that can be used for molecular analysis in blood and other biological fluids ... cells (CTCs) and in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA)....
In close cooperation with our customers, Bruker is enabling innovation, improved productivity and customer success in life science molecular research, in applied and pharma applications, in microscopy and nanoanalysis, and in industrial applications, as well as in cell biology, preclinical imaging, clinical ......
NASHVILLE, Tenn., Aug. 13, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Cumberland Pharmaceuticals CPIX, +0.00% today announced the appointment of biopharmaceutical industry veteran Adam Haeberle, Ph.D ... Dr ... Kazimi, CEO of Cumberland ... Haeberle earned his bachelor's degree in biology from Johns Hopkins University and a doctorate in neuroscience with a concentration in cell and molecular biology from Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center....
Researchers in the lab are affiliated with various campus departments, including bioengineering, chemistry and molecular and cell biology, according to the Keasling Lab's website ... "No ... From a corporate perspective, UC Berkeley has revolutionized biology by bridging the barrier between technology and science ... "Social justice, social mobility (is) important to our research enterprise, as is biology and technology." ... ....
Global law firm Goodwin announced today that Shane Albright has joined the firm's Silicon Valley office as partner in its Life Sciences practice, expanding the firm's resources and offering in Northern California ... We are thrilled that he has chosen to join our firm." ... Albright received his J.D. from Stanford University Law School and his Ph.D. in Molecular and Cell Biology from the University of California, Berkeley ... About Goodwin ... SOURCE....
The study was led by Luisa Iruela-Arispe, a professor of molecular, cell and developmental biology and a member of the research center ... Researchers then compared thousands of cells from damaged and undamaged vessels and identified genes that turned on during regeneration....
My favorite image is one that I came across in the aforementioned Molecular Biology of the Cell textbook ... I've kept this image faithfully tacked above the bed of every room I've lived in since I began teaching myself molecular biology because it reminds me of the first night I began reading about the intracellular world ... On a larger scale in the hierarchy of biological organization, all things classified as living are made up of cells....
College notes for Sunday, Aug. 5
Honors. Ryan David of Doniphan has been nominated for Phi Theta Kappa membership at Bismarck State College in Bismarck, N.D ... Moody, a sophomore public relations major, is the daughter of David and Connie Moody of Burwell ... Brock Reichardt of Aurora graduated from Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, in May with a degree in biochemistry and cell and molecular biology ... ....
NEW YORK, July 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ChemioCare USA Inc ... Andy Rensink joins the Company as Chief Manufacturing Officer, Hemal Shah joins as Health Economics and Outcomes Advisor, and Eric Baum joins the Company's Board of Directors ... Eric Baum ... Andy Rensink ... Hemal Shah ... in Molecular & Cell Biology from University of Connecticut and has completed a post-doctoral fellowship in outcomes research at Geisinger Health System/Novartis....
The article reports that a paper has stated that some health issues gain support, while others are neglected because of how the issues are communicated. It states that quantifiable factors, such as mortality and morbidity, play a little role in investigating the variance in attention given to health issues. It notes that it is how effective advocates for a health initiative communicate their message that determines how much attention and funding it receives.
44132764
Time trends in mortality in patients with type 1 diabetes: nationwide population based cohort study. Harjutsalo, Valma; Forsblom, Carol; Groop, Per-Henrik // BMJ: British Medical Journal (Overseas & Retired Doctors Edition;9/24/2011, Vol. 343 Issue 7824, p629
The article focuses on a study related to mortality in patients with type 1 diabetes. The study included all Finnish patients diagnosed as having type 1 diabetes below the age of 30. The study suggests that the decreasing time trend in the early onset cohort might be generalized to other...
Attributing Variance in Supportive Care Needs during Cancer: Culture-Service, and Individual Differences, before Clinical Factors Fielding, Richard; Lam, Wendy Wing Tak; Shun, Shiow Ching; Okuyama, Toru; Lai, Yeur Hur; Wada, Makoto; Akechi, Tatsuo; Li, Wylie Wai Yee // PLoS ONE;May2013, Vol. 8 Issue 5, p1
Background: Studies using the Supportive Care Needs Survey (SCNS) report high levels of unmet supportive care needs (SCNs) in psychological and less-so physical & daily living domains, interpreted as reflecting disease/treatment-coping deficits. However, service and culture differences may...
Factors Affecting Mortality in Generalized Postoperative Peritonitis: Multivariate Analysis in 96 Patients World J. Surg. Vol. 27, No. 4, April 2003. Mulier, Stefaan; Penninckx, Freddy; Verwaest, Charles; Filez, Ludo; Aerts, Raymond; Fieuws, Steffen; Lauwers, Peter // World Journal of Surgery;Apr2003, Vol. 27 Issue 4, p379
Mortality of generalized postoperative peritonitis remains high at 22% to 55%. The aim of the present study was to identify prognostic factors by means of univariate and multivariate analysis in a consecutive series of 96 patients. Mortality was 30%. Inability to clear the abdominal infection or...
Extranodal Tumor Extension to Adjacent Organs Predicts a Worse Cause-specific Survival in Patients with Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma. Ito, Yasuhiro; Hirokawa, Mitsuyoshi; Jikuzono, Tomoo; Higashiyama, Takuya; Takamura, Yuuki; Miya, Akihiro; Kobayashi, Kaoru; Matsuzuka, Fumio; Kuma, Kanji; Miyauchi, Akira // World Journal of Surgery;Jun2007, Vol. 31 Issue 6, p1196
We previously reported that massive extrathyroid extension has an independent prognostic value in patients with thyroid papillary carcinoma. However, tumor extension to adjacent organs can be observed not only in primary tumor but also in metastatic nodes. In this study we investigated the...
Reasons for Use of Out-of-County Health Care Facilities in the Mississippi Delta. Wynveen, Brooklynn J. // Review of Regional Studies;Fall2009, Vol. 39 Issue 2, p213
Mississippi has a long-standing place as one of the least healthy states in the country. Problems related to chronic illness, high mortality, and insufficient medical infrastructure are magnified within the state's Delta region. Efforts to improve patient care require an understanding of the...
Strategies for Diffusing Public Health Innovations Through Older Adults5 Health Communication Networks. Levy-Storms, Lené // Generations;Summer2005, Vol. 29 Issue 2, p70
This article discusses several strategies for diffusing public health innovations through older adults' health communication networks. Individuals across the world are living longer, mostly because of basic advances in public health such as sanitation and clean drinking water. In the U.S.,...
Traumatic adrenal gland injury: epidemiology and outcomes in a major Australian trauma center. Alsayali, M. M.; Atkin, C.; Rahim, R.; Niggemeyer, L. E.; Doody, O.; Varma, D. // European Journal of Trauma & Emergency Surgery;Dec2010, Vol. 36 Issue 6, p567
Introduction: Adrenal gland injury (ADGI) is quite rare and mostly associated with other organ injuries secondary to blunt thoracoabdominal trauma. Bilateral ADGI has severe consequences if not discovered in the treatment course of trauma victims. Purpose: To review our experience of management...
Increasing hospital admission rates and economic burden for colorectal cancer in Brazil, 1996--2008. Torres, Ulysses dos Santos; de Almeida, Thomas Eugenio Portes; Netinho, João Gomes // Revista Panamericana de Salud Publica;Oct2010, Vol. 28 Issue 4, p244
Objective. To determine the trends in hospital admission rates for colorectal cancer (CRC) in the Brazilian Public Health System from 1996 to 2008 and to assess the economic costs. Methods. Data from the Hospital Information Systems database of the Brazilian Unified Health System were used for...
Smart Ideas: Technology Revisited – Health
It is quite rare for you to visit a hospital or clinic and not find a medical laboratory technician they are known to be in so much demand. They are highly respected in the medical field as they are known to perform laboratory tests and procedures. They are known to be well trained when it comes to handling samples that are highly contaminated with infectious diseases. When it comes to diagnosing a patient the doctor tends to use the results that they get from a laboratory technician; therefore, there is no technician in a hospital everything in a hospital can go on a standstill. They are known to prepare specimen of blood and other body fluids for testing and analyzing. When performing the automated test they always ensure that they follow the instructions that they have been given carefully. Their work is to work with variety of equipment in a laboratory and a good example of such equipment is the microscope, computer equipment which can perform a lot of tests at the same time and a cell counter. Below are some tips that will help you when choosing a medical laboratory technician.
It is usually wise if you take your time and seek the services of a medical laboratory technician who has been there for the longest time. When you choose such a technician, you can be assured that they have gathered many years of knowledge and skills that are needed in order for good job to be done. Keep in mind that most people choose to seek the services of a technician who is a veteran in the industry. When it is a veteran you will be glad because they are not have gathered lots of knowledge and experience, therefore, making them qualified for the job. It is also important that you choose a technician that has been certified and given a license to practice by the necessary authority. Certifications are usually important and without them one can never be certain if they are dealing with a trained medical laboratory technician. It is wise if you ensure that you research about on the internet on the best medical institutions that are known to have well-qualified laboratory technicians. Choosing a well-experienced laboratory technician is usually one of the best decision that you can make because at the end of the day you will definitely receive the best service and you can be certain that the medical results that you get are correct.
Are The Symptoms Of Tuberculosis And Bronchitis The Same? - HealthReplies.comHealthReplies.com
Nov 5 '20 at 10:44 (10 months ago) kim alin
Illustration: Are The Symptoms Of Tuberculosis And Bronchitis The Same? tgp.com.ph
I want to ask, are the symptoms of TB and bronchitis the same? If you cough up blood and have checked with 2 different doctors, 1 says TB, the second is bronchitis ,,
Hello Kim Alin, thank you for the question for HealthReplies.com
TB is a disease caused by infection with the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis. TB can provide symptoms such as:
prolonged cough (more than 3 weeks) that does not improve with usual treatment
Bronchitis is a general term used to describe inflammation of the bronchi of the lung. Bronchitis itself can be divided into 2, acute bronchitis and chronic bronchitis. The two have different causes.
Acute bronchitis is most often caused by an infection in the respiratory tract, it can be viral or bacterial infection, but it can also be caused by irritations such as exposure to cigarette smoke, certain chemical gases, air pollution, or food and stomach acid entering the lungs.
Bronchitis is said to be chronic when the symptoms of cough with sputum occur every day for at least 3 months, for 2 consecutive years. Some of the things that can cause chronic bronchitis are smoking, repeated exposure to substances that irritate the lungs, recurrent respiratory infections and chronic respiratory infections such as tuberculosis, chronic diseases like asthma, cystic fibrosis, etc.
Symptoms that can be found in bronchitis include:
cough accompanied by profuse sputum production
giggling sound when you breathe
Both of these diseases can indeed have similar symptoms, therefore to confirm the diagnosis, additional examinations are needed, for example sputum culture examination, sputum AFB (acid-resistant bacteria), and chest X-rays. The appearance of chest x-rays in bronchitis and pulmonary tuberculosis can be different, but the tests that can most confirm the diagnosis are the sputum culture and sputum AFB smear. If the sputum culture examination or sputum BTA shows the presence of Tuberculosis bacteria, then the person can be said to be suffering from TB. Therefore, it is best if you do the tests recommended by the doctor who examines you directly so that it is clearer to find out the cause of your symptoms.
Here are articles that you can read about Tuberculosis and Bronchitis
Answered: Nov 5 '20 at 11:41 by HealthReplies.com
Do Not Have Blur Points On The Eyes?
In the past, there was a friend of mine who said that his eyes had no blur points, aka focus points on everything in front of their eyes. t if I see a tree then the focus point is ...
Why Is The Gastric Fluid Brownish Red In The Post Op App?
Syalom, nI want to ask, my younger brother is aged 6 post op app, the pus has broken, the surgeon said and there is a small tear in the large intestine but everything has been clea...
You are here: Scientific Experts > Japan > Nagoya City University > Akechi > Tatsuo Akechi
T Akechi
Nagoya City University Medical School, Department of Psychiatry, Mizuho cho, Mizuho ku, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan, 467 8601
Anxiety in disease-free breast cancer patients might be alleviated by provision of psychological support, not of information
Jpn J Clin Oncol 45:929-33. 2015
Psychometric properties of the Japanese version of the Concerns About Recurrence Scale (CARS-J)
Kanae Momino
Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive Behavioral Medicine, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Mizuho cho, Mizuho ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467 8601 Japan
Jpn J Clin Oncol 44:456-62. 2014
Contribution of problem-solving skills to fear of recurrence in breast cancer survivors
Tatuo Akechi
Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive Behavioral Medicine, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Mizuho cho, Mizuho ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467 8601, Japan
Breast Cancer Res Treat 145:205-10. 2014
Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive Behavioral Medicine, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Mizuho cho, Mizuho ku, Nagoya 467 8601, Aichi, Japan
Jpn J Clin Oncol 42:1113-9. 2012
J Onishi
Norihito Oshima
..However, the findings are conflicting, and no review has focused on depression among patients with incurable cancer...
..This study investigates the prevalence of clinical anxiety, the possible impact of patients' anxiety on quality of life and the association between their anxiety levels and patients' perceived needs...
..This study examines the psychometric properties of the Japanese version of the concerns about recurrence scale, which was originally developed in the USA...
..Our findings warrant clinical trials to investigate effectiveness of psychosocial intervention program, including enhancing patients' problem-solving skills and reducing fear of recurrence among breast cancer survivors. ..
..In addition, the current review introduces some novel therapeutic strategies that have not yet been proved to be effective but show promise for future studies...
..Terminally ill cancer patients often experience a self-perceived burden that affects their quality of life; however, no standard care strategy for coping with this form of suffering has ever been established...
Department of Psychiatry, Shinshu University School of Medicine, Matsumoto, Japan
J Nerv Ment Dis 200:305-9. 2012
..Low BMI may be an independent risk factor for suicidal ideation and deliberate self-harming behavior in Japanese adolescents...
Relationship between violent behavior and repeated weight-loss dieting among female adolescents in Japan
PLoS ONE 9:e107744. 2014
..To examine whether interpersonal violence perpetration and violence toward objects are associated with body mass index (BMI), body weight perception (BWP), and repeated weight-loss dieting in female adolescents...
Brief psychoeducation for schizophrenia primarily intended to change the cognition of auditory hallucinations: an exploratory study
Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive Behavioral Medicine, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan Department of Psychiatry, Shinshu University School of Medicine, Matsumoto, Japan Shiseikai Yagoto Hospital, Nagoya, Japan and Department of Health Promotion and Human Behavior, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine School of Public Health, Kyoto, Japan Dr Watanabe is now at the Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Translational Medical Center, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan
J Nerv Ment Dis 202:35-9. 2014
..In conclusion, the present study suggests that psychoeducation might be useful in reducing secondary delusions without exacerbating a depressive state. ..
Reliability and validity of the Japanese version of the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX) in Alzheimer's disease: validation of a behavioral rating scale to assess dysexecutive symptoms in Japanese patients with Alzheimer's disease
Int J Geriatr Psychiatry 22:951-6. 2007
..The aim of the present study was to develop a behavior rating scale for assessing dysexecutive symptoms in Japanese patients with AD...
Department of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing, Nagoya City University School of Nursing, 1 Kawasumi, Mizuho cho, Mizuho ku, Nagoya 4678601, Japan
Trials 15:320. 2014
..In the present study, we design a randomized controlled trial to examine the effectiveness of family psychoeducation in improving the mental health of relatives of patients with MDD lasting more than one year...
[Pharmacological therapy for psychiatric issues among cancer patients]
Nihon Rinsho 65:115-20. 2007
..Neuroleptics, especially haloperidol, are most widely used for management of delirium...
Psychological distress experienced by families of cancer patients: preliminary findings from psychiatric consultation of a Cancer Center Hospital
Jpn J Clin Oncol 36:329-32. 2006
..The purpose of the present study was to obtain preliminary findings regarding psychiatric disorders and background characteristics among Japanese family members of cancer patients...
Insular Volume Reduction in Patients with Social Anxiety Disorder
Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive Behavioral Medicine, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya City University, Nagoya, Japan
Front Psychiatry 7:3. 2016
..Since insula plays a critical role in the pathology of SAD, more attention should be paid not only to functional study but also morphometrical study of insula. ..
The differential impact of executive attention dysfunction on episodic memory in obsessive-compulsive disorder patients with checking symptoms vs. those with washing symptoms
J Psychiatr Res 41:776-84. 2007
..Among "checkers", poor general memory was related to inhibition deficits...
[Pharmacological management of psychiatric disorders among cancer patients]
Nihon Rinsho 70:126-9. 2012
..This review focuses on the psychiatric disorders experienced by cancer patients and provides an overview regarding appropriate pharmacological interventions for psychiatric disorders among cancer patients...
[Essential psychological care in palliative medicine]
Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi 112:1029-36. 2010
Health Qual Life Outcomes 13:4. 2015
..Despite frequent use, the factor structure of the VSS-short form has yet to be confirmed. Here, we clarified the factor structure of the VSS-short form, and assessed the validity and reliability of the Japanese version of this tool...
Effects of psychosocial functioning, depression, seizure frequency, and employment on quality of life in patients with epilepsy
Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive Behavioral Medicine, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan Electronic address
Epilepsy Behav 41:18-20. 2014
..Thus, using both the SEALS and NDDI-E may be useful to detect some aspects of QOL in clinical settings. ..
Death by suicide and other externally caused injuries after stroke in Japan (1990-2010): the Japan Public Health Center-based prospective study
From the Center for Suicide Prevention, National Institute of Mental Health T Y, and Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Translational Medical Center N Y, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan Department of Neuropsychiatry M Inagaki, Okayama University Hospital, Okayama, Japan Epidemiology and Prevention Division M Iwasaki, M Inoue, S T, Research Center for Cancer Prevention and Screening, National Cancer Center, Tokyo, Japan Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive Behavioral Medicine T A, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Aichi, Japan and Public Health Graduate School of Medicine H I, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
Psychosom Med 76:452-9. 2014
..The purpose of this study was to examine whether stroke increases the risks of suicide and ECI deaths...
Surgeon general stresses health gains of kicking the habit - tribunedigital-baltimoresun
Surgeon general stresses health gains of kicking the habit
September 25, 1990|By Sue Miller | Sue Miller,Evening Sun Staff
If you're one of the more than 50 million Americans who still smoke, the health benefits of quitting are immediate and substantial, according to the U.S. Surgeon General annual report on smoking and health made public today.
The evidence is overwhelming that kicking the nicotine habit "has major and immediate health benefits for men and women of all ages, even those in the older age groups," says the report.
And, it stresses, the benefits apply to persons with and without smoking-related disease. Even smokers who have already developed cancer may benefit from smoking cessation.
Although relevant data is sparse, the report said longer survival might be expected among smokers with cancer or other serious illnesses if they stop smoking.
"Smoking cessation represents the single most important step that smokers can take to enhance the length and quality of their lives," said Dr. Antonia C. Novello, the surgeon general.
For the first time, the surgeon general's 21st annual report on smoking systematically reviews the health benefits and consequences of smoking cessation.
The report was developed by the Office of Smoking and Health, Center for Chronic Disease Prevention, federal Centers for Disease Control and the U.S. Public Health Services, based on data produced by more than 120 scientists.
Other major conclusions of the report are:
* Former smokers live longer than continuing smokers, according to an analysis of data from the American Cancer Society's Cancer Prevention Study II. For example, people who quit smoking before age 50 have one-half the risk of dying in the next 15 years compared with those who continue to puff away.
* Quitting smoking decreases the risk of lung cancer, many other cancers, heart attack, stroke, chronic lung diseases and respiratory illnesses. For example, the risk of lung cancer for former smokers drops to as much as one-half that of continuing smokers after 10 years. The risk continues to decline with additional years of staying smoke-free.
* There are unique benefits for women who stop smoking. For example, if all women quit smoking during pregnancy, about 5 percent of the deaths among newborn infants could be prevented. And, women who kick the habit before trying to get pregnant are as likely to get pregnant as women who have never smoked. About 25 percent of pregnant women in this country smoke throughout pregnancy.
* And, finally, the health benefits of smoking cessation far exceed any risks from the average five-pound weight gain or any adverse psychological effects that may follow quitting. These include anxiety, frustration, anger and difficulty concentrating.
"The public health impact of cigarette smoking is enormous," Novello said. "It is responsible for about 390,000 deaths each year in the United States, or more than one of every six deaths.
"Public opinion polls tell us that most smokers want to quit. This report provides smokers with new and more powerful motivation to give up this self-destructive behavior."
In a letter accompanying the report, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the U.S. secretary of health and human services, said, "We must do everything we can to prevent young people from taking up this deadly addiction and we must help smokers quit."
It is estimated that more than 3,000 teen-agers across the nation become regular smokers each day.
Sullivan urged health insurers to provide payment for smoking cessation treatments that are shown to be effective.
The report warned that quitting isn't always easy. Most former smokers go through the process several times before becoming long-term quitters, it said. At least one-third of smokers who stay rTC off cigarettes for one or more years may eventually relapse. But, the report said, relapse becomes less likely as smokers stay off cigarettes for longer periods of time.
Advanced Wound Care Market - North America include rising geriatric population in the region, increasing diabetes and obesity cases, and growing number of road accidents
Toggle navigation
Reports Store
Press Releases
Categories
Aerospace and Defence
Agriculture
Automotive, Transportation
BFSI
Chemicals and Materials
Clothing
Construction and Manufacturing
Consumer Goods and Food and Beverages
Semiconductor and Electronics
Energy and Power
Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals
Process Control and Automation
ICT
Packaging
Services
Syndicate research
Custom research
Consulting Service
About Us
Contact Us
×
Search
Global Advanced Wound Care Market to Grow Over $17 Billion by 2022: Acumen Research and Consulting
Author: Acumen Research and Consulting
According to a new report published by Acumen Research and Consulting titled “Advanced Wound Care Market (Type: Advanced Wound Dressing, Advanced Wound Therapy Devices, Active Wound Care Products; Application: Surgical and Chronic Wounds, Ulcers, Burns; End-user: Inpatient Facilities, Outpatient Facilities) – Global Industry Analysis, Market Size, Opportunities and Forecast, 2012-2022”, the global advanced wound care market is expected to register a considerable growth of 7% during the period from 2016 to 2022 and reach the market size of more than $17 billion by 2022. The growth is mainly attributed by the factors such as rise in the number of geriatric population, growing number of road accidents, surgeries, and increasing number of burn cases registered, globally. Rising incidences of chronic wounds is another important factor driving the demand for advanced wound care. Advanced wound care products can be used for the chronic wounds related to diabetes and obesity.
View Full Report at https://www.acumenresearchandconsulting.com/advanced-wound-care-market
According to the sources, approximately 5 to 7 million cases of chronic wounds, every year, are registered in North America alone. This has resulted in increased consumption of advanced wound care products in the region, thus driving the growth of global advanced wound care market. Products such as NPWT (negative pressure wound therapy), hydrogel dressing, and foam dressing accelerate the healing process and, thus are extensively used advanced wound care products.
The global advanced wound care market is segmented based on type, application, end-user and geography. Based on type, the market is segmented into advanced wound dressing, advanced wound therapy devices, and active wound care products. Amongst these segments, advanced wound dressings is the largest and fastest growing segment and accounted for over 50% share of the total market in 2015. The advanced wound dressing refers to the wound dressings that provides moist micro environment and allows gaseous exchange and prevents infection to promote wound healing. Based on wound dressing types, the segment is further divided into hydrocolloid dressing, foam dressing, film dressing, hydrogel dressing, alginate dressing, collagen dressing and others. Depending on applications, the advanced wound care market is segmented into surgical and chronic wounds, ulcers, and burns. Surgical and clinical wounds segment accounted for the largest share of around 48% in 2015 and led the market in terms of applications. Surgical procedures are invasive in nature and damage the tissue, thus forming a wound at the site of surgery. In some cases, this wound comes in contact with infectious agents or physiological condition of patient, leading to the formation of chronic wounds. Various advanced wound care products, such as advanced wound dressing, wound therapy device and advance wound care products are used for the treatment of surgical and chronic wounds. The surgical and chronic wounds segment in Asia-Pacific is expected to grow at a CAGR of 7.7% during the forecast period. The end-users of wound care products include inpatient facilities and outpatient facilities.
Review Sample Pages - https://www.acumenresearchandconsulting.com/request-sample/373
Based on geography, the market is segmented into North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Rest of the World. In 2015, North America was the largest market for wound care products followed by Europe and Asia-Pacific. The major reasons for the growth in North America include rising geriatric population in the region, increasing diabetes and obesity cases, and growing number of road accidents. Geriatric population is more susceptible to diseases due to low immune power, which results in increased need for wound care products. According to the UN publication, the population of people aging 60 years and above in North America was over 74 million in 2015, and the number is estimated to grow and reach more than 104 million by 2030. Further, according to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the number of road injuries increased from 2.31 million in 2013 to 2.34 million in 2014 in the U.S and the number is expected to increase further in coming years. As a result, the demand for advanced wound care products is expected to increase in this region.
Among the player operating in the global advanced wound care market, some profiled in the report include 3M Company, Acelity LP Inc., Coloplast Corp., Mo-Sci Corp., Deroyal industries Inc., Medtronic Plc., Organogenesis Inc., Hollister Inc., Dermarite Industries LLC, Molnlycke Healthcare AB, Derma Sciences Inc., Smith & Nephew Plc., and Integra Lifesciences Holdings Corp. among others. Mergers and acquisitions for technology sharing and development and new product launch are some of the major strategies followed by leading players in this market to sustain market competition.
The report is readily available and can be dispatched immediately after payment confirmation.
Inquiry Before Buying: https://www.acumenresearchandconsulting.com/inquiry-before-buying/353
Would like to place an order or any question, please feel free to contact: sales@acumenresearchandconsulting.com
When you have a stiff neck, the soreness and restricted range of motion can make routine activities difficult. Symptoms typically last from just a day or two to a couple of weeks, and may be accompanied by a headache, shoulder pain, and/or pain that radiates down your arm. Occasionally when the underlying cause is more serious, the symptoms can last for weeks, months or years. Here are some potential causes of stiff neck, and when
For many people living with chronic neck pain, common treatments such as medications, ice, or heating pads do not always provide enough relief. Finding the best combination of treatments for your neck pain may take some trial and error. Here are some lesser-known tips for managing neck pain that you might want to consider. Maintaining strong daily hydration may prevent further degeneration of cervical discs, which may reduce neck pain. Watch: 10 Best Tips to Prevent
Stress. Anxiety. Low moral support. All of these and other psychosocial factors have been linked as potential causes of neck pain.1,2 When tension and stress build in the neck, muscles may feel tight or achy. Neck pain may also spread to the shoulder or be accompanied by a headache. Let’s explore some ways to reduce this type of neck pain. See Stress-Related Back Pain If stress-induced neck pain does not subside after a week or two of
