Kresta In The Afternoon: First ADULT Stem Cell Drug Approved
The Maryland Catholic Conference has praised the approval of the first stem cell drug, a therapy for a disease found among bone marrow transplant recipients. Dr. Nancy Paltell, Associate Director for Respect Life Issues at the Maryland Catholic Conference, reacted positively to the news.
"Despite all the hype about embryonic stem cell research, it's adult stem cells that are the only stem cells saving lives," she said May 22.
The Maryland-based Osiris Therapeutics Inc. announced on May 17 that Health Canada has given market authorization to sell the company's therapy Prochymal, which treats acute graft-vs-host disease in children.
The complication in bone marrow transplantation can kill up to 80 percent of affected children, who number 3,500 to 4,000 worldwide. The newly transplanted cells attack the patient's body and can cause abdominal pain, hair loss, hepatitis, and lung and digestive tract disorders, among other symptoms.
Prochymal uses bone marrow stem cells from an adult donor and aims to control inflammation while promoting tissue regeneration and scar formation.
The Health Canada decision marks the world's first regulatory approval of a manufactured stem cell product, Osiris said. The approval of Prochymal is conditional upon further testing after it reaches the market.
Osiris plans to apply to the FDA for U.S. marketing authorization by the end of 2012.
Paltell noted that Prochymal uses adult stem cells, not embryonic stem cells harvested from the destruction of human embryos.
She added that the research was not funded by the Maryland Stem Cell Research Fund, which has received $79 million of taxpayer money. A "relatively small amount" of the fund has contributed to adult stem cell research, which Paltell said explains the lack of patient treatments.
Stem Cell For Heart Disease July 11, 2012 at 12:10 AM
Adult stem cells from the bone marrow, which is derived from mesoderm, can differentiate into liver, lung, GI tract and skin. It can be induced by modifying the growth medium when stem cells are cultured in vitro or transplanting them to an organ of the body different from the one they were originally isolated from. Thanks a lot for creating this type of valuable site...
Clinical Research – Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust
Many of our clinicians are prominent nationally in their areas of expertise and are leading on major multi-million national research programmes that will benefit the NHS in years to come.
We actively support our doctors and nurses in their clinical research pursuits and encourage collaboration between industry, education and the NHS to deliver research programmes that are likely to bring widespread future benefits.
Our clinicians work in partnership with the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and local universities on some programmes.
We have developed a new dedicated clinical trials facility at North Tyneside General Hospital which has allowed us to make real strides in increasing the amount of research and clinical trials being offered to people accessing our services.
We have formed a unique partnership with international clinical trials provider Synexus and opened a dedicated research facility at Hexham General Hospital in 2014 The partnership is the first of its kind between a private company and the NHS and potentially showcases a new way of supporting clinical research in the UK.
If clinical research is an area that interests you then there couldn't be a more exciting time to join Northumbria Healthcare.
Feb 5, 2007 - 5:27:41 AM , Reviewed by: Dr. Rashmi Yadav
By Blackwell Publishing Ltd., [RxPG] According to a review of the latest clinical trials, coronary artery bypass surgery performed on a beating heart, without the aid of a heart-lung machine, is a safe option that leads to fewer negative side effects for bypass patients. This review is featured in Journal of Cardiac Surgery.
Esa methodology Custom paper Academic Service
Vapor encroachment screening under the newly-revised astm e 2600-10 the screening methodology be considered in an astm e 1527-05 phase i esa. Esa unclassified - for official use new reliability prediction methodology aimed at space applications briefing meeting with industry luigi bianchi. The eurekahedge systematic alpha (esa) is a custom alpha measure running on fund level across the eurekahedge hedge fund database read the methodology here. Based on esa 2010 methodology edition 2017 periodicity: irregular published on august 2017 article number: 6489031179004 you may contact us at. Methodology is concerned with how to teach and/or study many methodologies have been tried and tested over the years and are still being used esa see main.
The mip scoreboard presents indicators only according to the esa2010 and bpm6 methodology the esa 2010 differs in scope as well as in concepts from its. Featured news dive into our new website learn about our new and improved noaa fisheries website—wwwfisheriesnoaagov read more. chapter iii research methodology this chapter provides a description of the methods and procedure used in the study the readers will be enlightened on how the researchers conducted this study. The esa methodology of teaching the activate phase and so on to the final phase of the esa lesson, which is called the activate phase we also provide graduates with job assistance for as long as you need and all our tefl/tesol courses. Methodology definition, a set or system of methods, principles, and rules for regulating a given discipline, as in the arts or sciences see more.
Esa engage-study and activate are elements which are present in a language classroom to help students to learn effectively engage this is the point in a teaching sequence where teachers try to arouse the students interest, thus involving their emotions. → european space agency validation and experimental verification of esa mems qualification methodology.
Project planning and project methodology educational content products and services esa creates and curates content for a range of high quality solutions and. Esa/p/wp250 department of economic and social affairs population division world population prospects the 2017 revision methodology of the united nations. Following on from the previous video that examined the different teaching methodologies that have been developed over the years, this video takes a more in-d.
Policies and statements related to the employment and support allowance (esa): outcomes of work capability assessment statistics. Life expectancy at birth details on the methodology to follow can be found in life expectancy may be calculated separately for males and females. The esa methodology of teaching - sample esa lesson this video is part of our esa methodology series apply for one of our internationally accredited tefl/tesol courses and also receive job assistance for the duration of your teaching career.
In my previous post (a quick challenge for teflers: pick your potion), i did a small experiment with two different lesson plan appr.
Are you interested in knowing more about esa: a teaching methodology check out one of the thousands of tefl / efl / esl articles produced by ittt's students for many years teachers of english have used the ppp model of presentation. Methodology papers descriptions of the methodologies used to prepare bea's national, industry, regional, and international accounts data are accessible on this page. In july 2016, the us fish and wildlife service (service) announced its final methodology for prioritizing pending endangered species act (esa) status reviews, the scientifically rigorous process the agency uses to determine whether a species warrants federal protection the new approach will allow. Efl teaching methods: while efl teaching methodology is not rocket science, it is an important skill to master if you wish your students to succeed here. Us department of commerce esa's stem list contains 50 specific occupation following the methodology of our earlier. Become a better esl teacher with this comprehensive and intensive module in the theory and methodology 250-hour tesol diploma – methodology esa. Ppp tefl teaching methodology once familiar with the ppp methodology, are able to use tbl and esa more effectively than new trainees that are only exposed to.
Methodology and quality statement for the dwp esa work capability assessment, mandatory reconsiderations and appeals statistical release 3 1. Esa/p/wp242 department of economic and social affairs population division world population prospects the 2015 revision methodology of the united nations. Tag: ppp methodology i recently read a blog written specifically about what is wrong with ppp methodology and, sadly "esa" – means engage. The esa methodology of teaching - boomerang esa lesson the next example is going to be that of a boomerang lesson and remember the structure is like this.
United Kingdom 2020: Nicola Exton / NHS |
United Kingdom 2020: Nicola Exton / NHS
Delegate: Nicola Exton
Short Bio: Nicola's interest in sleep medicine was sparked when first appointed as a sleep nurse in the largest sleep centre in Scotland, Edinburgh. During this time, her skills and knowledge of the speciality where enhanced. She has underpinned her practice and clinical knowledge in sleep medicine by graduating from Oxford University.
She is now working as sleep apnoea nurse specialist within an NHS hospital where she is involved in developing the sleep service. As a service she assesses, diagnoses and treats patients with Obstructive Sleep Apnoea throughout the county of Cumbria.
Nicola has a passion to provide a quality service to her patients and feels that by becoming a delegate will enable her to showcase the developing service and highlight the importance of sleep medicine to her colleagues and the wider population.
Activity: World Sleep Day Awareness Event
This year, as part of world sleep day 2020 the sleep service based within the Cumberland Infirmary, Carlisle will be hosting a sleep awareness event. This will be located in the main atrium of the hospital. It is aimed at both staff and the public to heighten awareness and understanding of healthy sleep as well as the developing service that we provide.
The aim of the event is to provide current statistical data and informative advice relating to a range of sleep conditions and their impact on health and well-being. A supporting charity has provided information leaflets to share with the public to reinforce the importance of healthy sleep and how this can promote 'Better Sleep, Better Life, Better Planet' which is the key message of Wold Sleep Day 2020.
The service has secured sleep related products from a local bed manufacturer including a bed, pillows and dressing gowns which will be given away to entice engagement in this event. Support from the trusts equipment provider has been sourced to enable demonstrations of CPAP therapy to be given throughout the event.
U.S. Army Special Forces Operators Reluctant to Seek Treatment for Posttraumatic Stres... ( COLORADO SPRINGS Colo. Nov. 11 /- Acc...)
...COLORADO SPRINGS Colo. Nov. 11 /- According to a Univer...(Photo: a href'http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20091111/LA09207'...The 18-month study which included 68 U.S. Army Special Forces Operato...Even though 100 percent of respondents were aware that therapy was ava...
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo., Nov. 11 /PRNewswire/ -- According to a University of the Rockies study, more than half (54.4 percent) of U.S. Army Special Forces Operators exposed to combat would not seek treatment while serving in the Army, even if they were experiencing Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) symptoms or psychological distress.
(Photo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20091111/LA09207)
The 18-month study, which included 68 U.S. Army Special Forces Operators who had been deployed to combat since Operation Iraqi Freedom began in 2003, was conducted by Jessica M. Espinoza, PsyD., who earned her doctorate degree in Clinical Psychology from the university. University of the Rockies is a graduate university specializing in master's and doctorate degrees in psychology.
Of those negative consequences, the stigma attached to soldiers with PTSD was the biggest deterrent to seeking treatment, followed by the fear of being thought of as weak, the fear of being removed from an A-team, the fear of being removed from Special Forces, the fear of being ostracized, the fear of being thought of as a coward, the fear of being discharged from the U.S. Army, the fear of personal distress and the loss of security clearances and job opportunities. The study supports that, of those with PTSD symptoms, only about half will seek treatment due to the stigma attached to PTSD in the military.
866.621.0124 x2513 - shari.rodriguez@bridgepointeducation.com
Debbie Mitchell, Mullen Public Relations
602.222.4343 - dmitchell@mullenpr.com
1. Relocation Specialists Beyond the Box Team With Nurse to Help Facilitate Senior Moves
3. The New Healthcare Reform Bill Passed by The Congress Prompted The New Claim Specialist Certification Class from ERISAclaim.com
4. Health Integrated Announces Turnkey Model of Care Program for Special Needs Health Plans
5. NovaRx Corporation Announces FDA Approval of Protocol Amendment to Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) for Phase III Lucanix(R) Study in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
6. OMG Announces Special Event: Terminology Services Information Day
7. GCI ConnectMD Links Swedish Medical Center Neuroscience Stroke Specialists and Patients Throughout Washington State to Swedish's Joint Commission Certified Primary Stroke Center
9. Las Vegas Plastic Surgery Center (imagepluslasvegas.com) Specializes in Non-Surgical Cosmetic Procedures
10. Function Drinks President & Co-Founder, Dr. Alex Hughes, Joins the Faculty of Cornells Hospital for Special Surgery
11. ERISAclaim.com Announced the Nation's First Certification Program for the ERISA Claim Appeal Specialist for Healthcare Providers and Managed-Care Payers
If cancer comes back — Canteen Connect
Sometimes, sadly, cancer can return. This is called recurrence or relapse. It means the return of a sign, symptom or tumour after you've been in remission (cancer-free).
Dealing with a relapse can be just as hard as, or harder than, dealing with your original cancer.
When cancer comes back, it doesn't always show up in the same part of the body – for example, if you had colon cancer, it may recur in the liver. The cancer is still called colon cancer.
The different types of recurrence are:
Local: which means that the cancer is in the same place as the original cancer or is very close to it.
Regional: when tumours grow in lymph nodes or tissues near the place of the original cancer.
Distant: if the cancer has spread (metastasised) to organs or tissues far from the place of the original cancer.
A recurrent cancer normally starts with cancer cells that the first treatment didn't fully remove or destroy. This doesn't mean that the treatment you received was wrong. And it doesn't mean that you did anything wrong. It just means that a small number of cancer cells survived the treatment. It is also possible to develop a completely new cancer that has nothing to do with your original cancer.
Not again! Normal reactions to relapse
It's normal to feel angry and think 'How can this be happening to me again? Haven't I been through enough??'.
Other common reactions at relapse are shock, sadness and fear – perhaps the same kind of emotions you had when you were first diagnosed. Read more about dealing with them here.
Having to go through treatment again (often more intense), feeling out of control of your body and your life, and worrying about what the outcome will be this time may make you upset and scared.
Just like the first time, you need to get all the information you need about your relapse and treatment options so you can decide what's right for you.
Talk about how you feel with a trusted friend or family member or someone in your treatment team. You can also talk to a counsellor here on CanTeen Connect.
Chat with others here on CanTeen Connect about the challenges of relapse
Write down your fears, hopes and aspirations for the future in a journal or on a blog.
Staying positive. You have something now that you didn't have before – experience. You've lived through cancer once. There is no reason why you can't do it again.
While most young people do survive cancer, the sad truth is that sometimes cancer can't be cured. Find out more and get support.
Use the Cancer? app to help you ask the cancer questions you need answered
We have released a new app to support you through a cancer diagnosis! If you have ever been worried about what questions to ask or remembering all the answers, this app can help. Features of the Cancer? app include: Read question lists developed by in...
This page has information about treatment costs and health insurance issues, financial help that may be available to people affected by cancer, and schemes that help you with the costs of transport and accommodation if you have to travel to have your ...
Akero's upbeat NASH data bolsters its stock along with 89bio's | 2020-07-01 | BioWorld
Home » Akero's upbeat NASH data bolsters its stock along with 89bio's
Both companies' stock soared July 1, with Akero (NASDAQ:AKRO) closing 33.9% upward as shares finished the day at $33.37 each. 89bio stock (NASDAQ:ETNB), had a better showing as it closed at $28.17 per share, an increase of 41.3% on the day.
Analyst Brian Williams, at RBC Capital Markets, wrote that Akero's new data "should read through positively" for 89bio, since the two are similar drugs at a similar stage of development. He said that he expects both companies to enter phase IIb/III studies at the same time in 2021.
Andrew Cheng, president and CEO, Akero
In South San Francisco-based Akero's phase IIa study of efruxifermin, formerly known as AKR-001, the analysis of the secondary and exploratory endpoints showed 48% of patients had fibrosis improvement of at least one stage improvement without worsening in the activity score measurement, while 28% had at least a two-stage fibrosis improvement. Also, 48% of the patients achieved NASH resolution with no worsening of fibrosis.
Data from the ongoing, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 80 adults showed improvements in treating several NASH co-morbidities. All the dosage groups, each receiving subcutaneous, weekly 28-, 50- and 70-mg doses of efruxifermin or placebo, had a mean weight loss during the 16-week study. The 70-mg dose had a statistically significant body weight loss of about eight pounds at week 16.
The study also revealed significant reductions in HbA1c in the 50- and 70-mg dose groups of 0.4 and 0.5, plus improved dyslipidemia that included significant increases in HDL cholesterol and significant triglyceride decreases in all the dosage groups.
The Akero study's primary efficacy endpoint is absolute change from baseline in hepatic fat fraction measured by magnetic resonance imaging-proton density fat fraction at week 12. The secondary measures include change from baseline at 12 weeks, the number of patients with a decrease of ≥2 points in the nonalcoholic fatty liver disease activity score at 24 weeks, and safety and tolerability measures.
In Wednesday morning's conference call to investors, Akero's president and CEO, Andrew Cheng, noted that 28- and 50-mg dosage groups appeared to be the likely candidates for the longer-term phase IIb and phase III studies, though he added that no firm decisions have yet been made. Cheng also said the new data showed that efruxifermin could be a "foundational monotherapy" for treating NASH.
H.C. Wainwright and Co.'s Ed Arce praised the new data as "a real breakthrough in NASH" while noting the patient numbers were "rather small" and need to be confirmed in a larger study powered for statistical significance. The study "handily exceeded" his expectations.
Eric Joseph, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, effused similarly by writing Wednesday that he is "notably impressed by the rate and magnitude of fibrosis" and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease activity score improvement over a brief treatment period.
"Further, we believe depth of fibrosis response increasingly brings the F4/cirrhotic opportunity into view for efruxifermin," he added.
Meanwhile, 89bio expects top-line results from its BIO89-100 phase Ib/IIa NASH proof-of-concept study in the second half of 2020. In April, the company closed enrollment in the double-blind, multiple ascending-dose-ranging trial of 871 patients randomized to receive weekly or every other week subcutaneous doses or placebo for 12 weeks. The study focuses on patients with NASH or with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease who are at high risk of developing NASH.
The trial will assess BIO89-100's safety, tolerability and PK properties along with the absolute change from baseline in hepatic fat fraction and proton density fat fraction.
BIO89-100, the company's lead candidate, is a recombinant human FGF21 analogue that 89bio also plans to develop for treating severe hypertriglyceridemia.
KEYWORDS 89bio Inc. Akero Therapeutics Inc. AKR-001 BIO89-100 efruxifermin NASH nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
Investigating Factors for Consideration in Decision-Making Frameworks for Household Water Treatment in Southeast Asia & the Pacific | Engineering For Change
contributor: Briana Jones
PARTNER COLLABORATORS: Dr. Jeremy Smith, Australian National University; George Goddard, Engineers Without Borders-Australia
Sustainable Development Goal Target 6.1 calls for universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water. However, with 2030 fast approaching, an estimated 785 million people still lack access to clean and safe water. Rural areas within Southeast Asia and the Pacific are particularly vulnerable due to lack of support for implementations of point of consumption (PoC), water security measures.
Household water treatment (HWT) is an effective measure for improving the safety of water at PoC, if centralized water security measures fail. However, HWT is often not a priority for local governments or large NGOs, who may be more focused on community and municipality level interventions. Thus, HWT interventions are often taken up by smaller NGOs passionate about promotion safe water in communities. HWT technology selection and implementation is a complex area to address, as a number of factors need to be considered within the process. Selection of appropriate technology is often aided or justified by decision-making frameworks, of which have unique contextual categories for consideration. The need for support for the decision-making process has resulted in the development of numerous tools within the Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene, (WaSH) sector. However, of these tools for selection of "most appropriate technology/approach/system", there does not exist a singular decision-making framework for selection of household water treatment technology. The reason for this may be that HWT is not a priority in most contexts, it is a stop-gap, most countries are more focused on wider spread solutions of which do not have the complexity of individual considerations.
Technologies may successfully address the water quality concerns and water needs of a user, however, it may not be appropriate to the context. Appropriateness of technology to context is a significant factor to address in determining the sustainability of a solution. The Centre for Appropriate Technology (CfAT), echoes this sentiment by stating, "a piece of technology or infrastructure has no value without utility to those in the community. It is what we can do with it, rather than the thing itself that is of value. Therefore, the engagement, education and training surrounding the installation or construction of something in a community will determine its success or otherwise." Therefore, the ability of solutions to meet the unique needs of the users is subject to external factors beyond the technical capabilities of the technology4. Understanding of these factors and their implications allows for informed selection of technologies most appropriate to context. In collaboration with Engineers Without Borders (EWB)-Australia and the Australian National University, this research aims to investigate the parameters and conditions that should be considered for the selection of household technologies for treatment of water in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, in an ongoing effort to inform decision-making practitioners.
To gain understanding of the factors and considerations in HWT technology selection and implementation, we investigated practices in countries in Southeast Asia and the Pacific. Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Timor-Leste, and Papua New Guinea were selected as they align to where the research collaboration partner, Engineers Without Borders (EWB)-Australia works. Desktop research, and interviews with field experts within the sector and regions were conducted to gain experienced-based requirements of decision-making support tools and current state of HWT. Ten individuals from various organizations provided field insight into HWT within the select countries. Experts included five country-specific experts, three global WaSH advisors, two HWT field experts, two WaSH experts, and one HWT decision tree developer (for their privacy, all interviewees are anonymized in this report). Interviews with experts provided insight into technology procurement, provision, and sustainability of solutions. These data assist in identifying key factors for consideration in selection of HWT options.
Decision Framework for Household Water Treatment
This research was completed as part of the 2020 E4C Fellowship program. Learn more about the Fellows who worked on this research collaboration by connecting with them on LinkedIn: Briana Jones and Carolina Rojas.
These are public toots tagged with #Huren_bremen. You can interact with them if you have an account anywhere in the fediverse.

Fingerprint Dive into the research topics of 'Simulation of thin liquid jets with threads'. Together they form a unique fingerprint.

Back to TopCauses . Asthma is caused by inflammation in the airways. When an asthma attack Only your doctor can tell you if you or your child has asthma. This section describes how your doctor makes the Diagnosing asthma generally includes a medical history, physical exam and lung tests. Asthma. Explore Asthma. What Is Causes Who Is at Risk Exercise-induced bronchospasm is often a neglected diagnosis, and the underlying asthma may be and Prevention Program. Expert Panel Report 3: Guidelines for the Diagnosis and. Management of Asthma. Full Report Asthma is a chronic condition with symptoms of cough, wheezing, chest tightness , and/or difficulty
Irritants, emotional stress, fatigue, exposure to noxious fumes, and Exercise may also provoke an asthma attack. In patients with exercise-induced asthma, bronchospasm may follow He is the only board certified specialist in allergy & asthma that is a Fellow of the Academy, College, & certified asthma cians to recommend for or against breastfeeding specif- ically for the prevention of asthma (level III). Chronic respiratory diseases Asthma is a chronic disease characterized by recurrent attacks of breathlessness and Advice on tecniques and medicines for managing your asthma. 20 hours ago Read about asthma symptoms, medication, inhalers, management and triggers that cause an attack. Asthma definition at Dictionary.com, a free online dictionary with pronunciation, synonyms and These drugs are considered an alternative for long-term control of asthma, but inhaled corticosteroids Results: The 5-year mortality rate in people with asthma was 24.3%, compared to 16.3% in control . Given our study question, we excluded from our analysis the group with COPD. Additionally, suboptimal asthma control has a significant burden on the healthcare system. For these reasons, correct
causes of asthma asthma education asthma allergies las vegas causes of asthma asthma child list of asthma medicine severe asthma attack symptoms causes of asthma exercise causes of asthma virus diagnosing asthma pregnancy european respiratory society asthma guidelines Because asthma causes resistance, or obstruction, to exhaled air, it is called an obstructive lung...
managing pediatric asthma at school asthma causes eczema children's asthma swine flu managing pediatric asthma at school asthma bronchiale therapie buch managing pediatric asthma at school managing pediatric asthma at school asthma guidelines from gina asthma allergy pulmonary associates pc managing pediatric asthma at school asthma treatment quick relief Asthma management at schools is important...
