Eleven Outrageous Thoughts To your Mornington Chiropractor. – Tips To Improve our Nutrition with Wolontariat-integracja
Eleven Outrageous Thoughts To your Mornington Chiropractor.
The Causes A Chiropractor Will Benefit You
Life is an ample amount of an issue without including back problems. Almost all in our movements involve the back, and problems in this field could cause a lot of aggravation. The following tips can help you learn about chiropractics.
Today, medical doctors often team up with alternative practitioners. Thus, you ought to ensure to possess insurance that covers stuff like massage, chiropractic and acupuncture. These are great additions to classical medical treatment.
Try paying attention to sleeping on your backside to aid with back problems. Put pillows below your head and shoulders. Place rolled-up towels underneath your neck and knees to keep your body's main three curves stabilized. Ensure your mattress is comfortable.
Be sure you arise properly in the morning. Before getting up, stretch just a little and rise slowly. Swing your legs around for the floor when you support yourself on your arms. This reduces spinal injuries.
You can always ask your physician for any recommendation for any local chiropractor. You possibly will not need to have a referral for the chiropractor, but your doctor probably knows someone personally that one could trust.
In order to pick a good chiropractor to assist you with back issues, select the right one right away. Despite the fact that there are many quality chiropractors, a few of them aren't that good. There are some of them that make issues worse. Carefully research any chiropractor you are interested in seeingfunny post
Check a chiropractor's references before you decide to schedule anything. Despite the fact that most chiropractors genuinely wish to assist you to, there are some who attempt to sell more treatments for you than you really need. Search online for reviews and see about getting references from doctors in the health care field if required.
Is your blood pressure levels high? Medical studies have shown which a manipulation of your first vertebrae with your neck is as effective as two blood pressure levels medicines taken simultaneously. Manipulating the vertebrae helps regulate blood pressure.
Carrying your wallet inside the back pocket is truly a pretty bad idea. A lot of men place their wallets with their back pockets with no knowledge of it may hurt the back.
It can cause pressure with your organs and back. Move your wallet towards the front pockets to help relieve any pressure.
Go to your doctor to obtain a referral to a good chiropractor. You need your doctor's assessment for that problem. This will assist them determine the very best course of treatment for you. It may turn out that chiropractic care is not really the ideal alternative. Your doctor could possibly have other suggestions.
Make sure you find out about the particular varieties of ailments your potential chiropractor is an expert in. A chiropractor is overstepping his bounds if he attempts to treat conditions aside from musculoskeletal issues. You can rely those to limit themselves to the areas.
Obtaining the best chiropractic care is essential. With out a healthy back, it might leave even strongest person incapacitated. You can prevent this issue! What you've read here can help you avoid problems in the future and remedy those you possess now..
acne Advice aging beauty Blogging chiropractic care cooking cosmetic surgery dental care eye care fitness Guide hair care Health Health (General) Ideas insurance - health massage Nutrition personal development stress Tips weight loss
Heart Failure in Horses - Symptoms, Causes, Diagnosis, Treatment, Recovery, Management, Cost
Most common symptomsCollapse / Coughing / Shallow Rapid Breathing / Swelling / Weakness / Weight Loss
A clinical condition, heart failure is a secondary occurrence resulting from significant, overpowering heart disease. Heart failure is a condition where there is clogging or atypical collection of fluid, a decrease in blood flow to the body, and your horse has very low blood pressure. In most cases, heart failure is due to chronic illness that has led to significant issues causing the heart to be unable to pump enough blood. Heart failure is considered rare in horses.
A result of significant heart disease, heart failure will occur should the heart not be able to keep up standard venous and capillary pressures, cardiac output, and the system's blood pressure.
Heart Failure Average Cost
From 416 quotes ranging from $10,000 - $25,000
Symptoms of Heart Failure in Horses
Should your horse be experiencing heart failure, the following symptoms may be seen:
Heart murmur and rapid heart rate
Throbbing of the jugular veins
Swelling along the surface of the abdomen of your horse
Heart failure is divided into four classifications:
The heart muscle's ability to contract is reduced. If the reduction is severe, regular blood flow is unable to be kept up. This can happen as a result of trauma, infection, drugs, poisons, electric shock, heat stroke or tumors.
Obstruction to cardiac inflow
This leads to blood flow decreasing possibly caused by the heart being compressed, perhaps due to:
Fluid in the sac that surrounds the heart
A problem in the widening of the chambers of the heart between two contractions that causes a still ventricle and decreased ventricular filling
Anomalies to the heart's structure
This can happen due to long term increases in stress impacting the heart wall when contracting, causing blood flow from the heart to be blocked or an increase in blood pressure.
This can occur due to any disease that multiplies the amount of blood in the ventricles(s) which leads to a greater amount of blood flow and can cause congestive heart failure. This includes valve disease and left-to-right shunts.
Causes of Heart Failure in Horses
Heart failure is, in most cases, a result of a chronic disease that leads to a significant reduction in the heart's contractions, significant regurgitation or shunting or significant diastolic dysfunction.
Diagnosis of Heart Failure in Horses
While not a distinct disease, heart failure is considered to be a syndrome where significant dysfunction resulting from one of the many types of heart disease leads to the cardiovascular system being unable to circulate blood to the extent necessary. Certain workings impacted by heart disease can lead to cardiovascular system failure; however, heart failure is not a specific diagnosis. Often, the heart of your horse would be found to be enlarged upon undergoing an echocardiogram; the clinical signs that are seen the most in heart failure are a direct result of swelling or effusion.
Your horse may have heart disease without it leading to heart failure, though heart failure can only happen in your horse if he has heart disease.
When considering treatment for heart failure, your veterinarian will look to improve the operation of the heart muscle, regulate arrhythmias and blood pressure, enhance blood flow, and decrease the volume of blood that fills the heart prior to contraction. Should these not be regulated, further damage to the heart and blood vessels may occur. Treatment will also seek to decrease the volume of fluid that is present in the lungs, abdomen, and chest cavity of your horse.
A variety of medications are available when looking to treat heart failure. Your veterinarian will consider the cause and extent of your horse's heart failure when looking at which medication, dose, and how often it will be administered.
Diuretics are typically prescribed in order to decrease excess fluid
Medications that help the heart muscle contract, like digitalis and digoxin (from the category of drugs called positive inotropes) may be recommended
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and vasodilators work to broaden blood vessels, helping to decrease blood pressure
Beta-adrenergic blocking drugs (beta-blockers) as well as calcium channel blockers may be of use
In some cases, surgical measures may be recommended to remove fluid buildup
Recovery of Heart Failure in Horses
Should your horse be experiencing heart failure, you will want to work closely with your veterinarian; it is important to administer all medications as directed and attend follow up appointments as discussed. Medications may not be effective if not given at appropriate timeframes and not following your veterinarian's instructions can lead to further problems for your horse.
Global Burn Injury Treatment Market Projected to Boost at 2,451.30Mn And Growing at A CAGR of 4.99% By 3031 | Taiwan News | 2022-01-12 05:46:01
Global Burn Injury Treatment Market Projected to Boost at 2,451.30Mn And Growing at A CAGR of 4.99% By 3031
The global Global Burn Injury Treatment Market is expected to be worth around 2,451.30Mn by 2031, growing at a CAGR of 4.99% during the forecast period 2021 to 2031
A New Report on the Global Burn Injury Treatment Market was recently published by Marketresearch.biz. A diplomatic approach with the help of a particular software used to assist the highly complicated problems of a huge business organization is business software. These Global Burn Injury Treatment Market are designed to integrate and can be deployed over a variety of networks. This Global Burn Injury Treatment Market is highly complex, scalable, component-based, mission-critical, and distributed meeting strict requirements for security and management. The Global Burn Injury Treatment Market end-users are moving towards adopting cloud-based models and hybrid deployment models instead of the traditional premise-based deployments with a view to increasing cost efficiencies.
Request Preview of Report Before Purchasing: https://Marketresearch.biz/report/burn-injury-treatment-Market/request-sample
Data transparency achieved with the Global Burn Injury Treatment Market is resulting in high adoptions by the Government driving high growths for this Market, whereas reasons such as the complex architectural model of the Global Burn Injury Treatment Market act as deterrents to the growth of this Market. Availability of more economical integration services will bring more opportunities to the Market. The report aims to provide an overview of the Market with detailed Market segmentation by integration type, deployment model, product, end-user, and geography. The Global Burn Injury Treatment Market is expected to witness rapid growth during the forecast period.
Acelity L.P., Inc., Smith & Nephew & Nephew plc, Mölnlycke Health Care AB, ConvaTec, Inc., Coloplast Group, Integra LifeSciences Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., Essity Aktiebolag (publ)., Acelity L.P., Inc., B. Braun Melsungen AG, 3M Healthcare.
The Global Burn Injury Treatment Market research report offers a comprehensive overview of the Market and all the important aspects related to it. The report offers a microscopic view of the present and future Market demands. The report includes several important that considered being crucial in the study of every industry. These factors include dynamic Market structure, profitability, potential customer base, key players' product offerings, technical innovation, information on communication and sales, optimization of the value chain, challenges and barriers, risk, prospects, climate, competitive landscape, growth strategy, etc. The scope of the report spreads from Market outlines to relative pricing between major players, cost, and profit of the specified Market regions.
The statistical data is backed up by statistical tools. The statistics are represented in graphical format for a clear understanding of facts and figures. The report also takes into account the management strategies in the evaluation of the Market performance to demonstrate the potential possibilities and difficulties of the Market in each region. The report also includes the recent agreements including consolidation and acquisition, partnership or joint venture, and latest developments of the manufacturers to sustain in the competition of the Global Burn Injury Treatment Market.
You can ask questions about the study or express your concerns about it here: https://Marketresearch.biz/report/burn-injury-treatment-Market/#inquiry
Key Segments Covered in Global Global Burn Injury Treatment Market
Click here for the full INDEX, including data, facts, figures, tables and more:https://Marketresearch.biz/report/burn-injury-treatment-Market/#toc
World Thalassemia Day 2018: 8 facts about this genetic disorder that will shock you - Read Health Related Blogs, Articles & News on Health News at TheHealthSite.com
Shaloo Tiwari | Updated: May 8, 2018 11:27 am
India is suffering from the burden of Thalassemia, a genetic disorder, characterised by abnormal formation of haemoglobin which further causes improper transport of oxygen and destruction of red blood cells. Thalassemia causes people to have fewer red blood cells and suffer from anaemia.
This genetic disorder carries some worrisome statistics for patients of India as very recently according to an alarming report by the World Health Organisation (WHO), about 90% of thalassemic people from the western countries lead quite a normal life whereas almost half of the thalassemic patients in India die before they reach adulthood.
About 3.9 % of India's population is a carrier for thalassemia. More than 10,000 thalassemic children born every year in India.
Rund, D., & Rachmilewitz, E. (2005). β-Thalassemia. New England Journal of Medicine, 353(11), 1135-1146.
We live in a digital age, where our mobile device is attached to us most of the time.
But for many small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) health and safety processes haven't caught up with reality: paper forms, Excel templates and printed out policy documents are still commonplace.
We've developed a mobile safety software platform that helps H&S Consultants to change this for their small business clients, and we partner with consultants so they can roll it out to customers.
As a Health and Safety Consultant working with SMEs you have a unique opportunity to bring their H&S processes up to date with technology. Here are six compelling reasons that should convince you to make the jump with us.
1. Gain an advantage over competitors
Modernising your offer to customers means you can set yourself apart from other H&S Consultants. You are competing with them to win the business of customers – and in a world where most managers have digital transformation on their mind, you want to be able to offer a digital package with seamless data integration – not a 1980s offer of printed paper forms in folders. Think from your clients' perspective! Our network of consultants partners across the UK, USA, Australia and New Zealand tell us that having SaferMe as part of their pitch helps them win new clients.
2. Improve your clients' engagement and user experience
There are good reasons clients are seeking digital options. In the case of health and safety software it offers three clear benefits: it makes it easier and more efficient to report on safety both in the field and in the office; it drives further employee engagement with safety; and it provides the digital storage and documentation of actions they need to prove they comply with the law. SaferMe makes health and safety both mobile and easy for end users.
3. Real-time insights into clients' safety issues
SaferMe isn't just about making your customers' user experience better. Your administration portal allows you to manage each client and track their reporting activity across all their health and safety forms. Are they completing regular checks? Are there specific recurring issues happening? With SaferMe you will already know all of this when you arrive for your inspections or meeting – enabling you to provide even more tailored service.
4. Support compliance with ISO 45001
ISO 45001 offers a framework for high quality health & safety practices. Some of the key requirements in achieving ISO 45001 accreditation – such as communication of safety information, availability of safety data and policies, and engaging staff with health and safety are best supported with mobile safety technology like SaferMe. Partnering with us gives you a chance to offer this to clients.
5. SaferMe works offline – ideal for rural industries
Location of work is no longer a reason not to use a modern mobile health and safety solution. SaferMe works offline so you can file your important reports and inspections on the go and they will upload automatically when you come online again. You can even download hazard data before you head into an offline area – so you will know what risks you are facing when you get there.
6. It's affordable – even for one-person consultancies
We have designed our H&S Consultant Partnerships to work and to scale for our partners – even the smallest of businesses. We have competitors in the mobile H&S software market – but their pricing doesn't allow you to affordably scale to your clients' end users. Sure, you can afford one or two users to conduct audits – but if you really want to engage their workers and move health and safety culture forward then you need a solution that allows you to do this at a low cost. The answer is SaferMe.
Leave us your details below and we'll give you a free demo and free trial of SaferMe so you can judge for yourself.
Browse our online library of reports, journal articles, fact sheets, issues briefs, webinars, and other publications.
Insights
February 18, 2021
Three Ways the Biden Administration Can Improve Medicaid to Assist CSHCN, Families
Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are linchpins of the system of care, providing insurance coverage for almost half of the nation's children with special health care needs (CSHCN). Edwin Park and Elisabeth Wright Burak, two Georgetown University experts on children's health care financing, propose three ways that the Biden Administration could modify Medicaid to better serve CSHCN and their families.
Journal Articles
December 21, 2020
Mental Health Needs during COVID-19: Responses in Pediatric Health Care
Recent studies suggest that both parental and children’s mental health has worsened since the onset of the pandemic. These changes are most pronounced in families facing more hardship, and children already at high risk for mental health concerns are even more vulnerable as a result of the pandemic. Learn how children’s hospitals have responded in varied ways to these concerns and obtain resources for nurses to share with families.
Insights
December 17, 2020
Juno Duenas: Thirty-plus Years on the Frontline of Family Advocacy
Juno Duenas, parent of a daughter with severe disabilities, has been a staunch leader in family advocacy for more than 30 years. As she retires from her position as executive director of Support for Families of Children with Disabilities, she reflects on her decades of championing the family perspective, and what lies ahead for her.
Event and Webinar Recaps
October 27, 2020
Supporting Children and Youth with Special Health Care Needs During COVID-19
A series of webinars that explore strategies for state Medicaid agencies to implement during the pandemic, from coverage requirements to expanded access to services.
Journal Articles
October 23, 2020
Oregon’s Approach to Leveraging System-level Data to Guide a Social Determinants of Health-informed Approach to Children’s Healthcare
A novel methodology combining medical complexity (using the Pediatric Medical Complexity Algorithm) and social complexity (using available family social factors known to impact a child’s health and healthcare use) was used to create a new health complexity model at both the population-level and individual-level. Findings from the article demonstrate that a large number of Medicaid/CHIP-insured children could benefit from targeted care coordination and differential resource allocation that aligns with their health complexity.
Fact Sheets
October 22, 2020
Fact Sheet: Findings on Family Engagement from California Research Bureau
The California Research Bureau (CRB) investigated the extent to which the state's child-serving departments and agencies incorporate meaningful input from caregivers and youth in policymaking. The CRB research shows that California state government includes some bright spots of meaningful family engagement, but they are sporadic and not common practice throughout all child-serving agencies.
Research & Reports
October 20, 2020
National Care Coordination Standards for Children and Youth with Special Health Care Needs
The National Care Coordination Standards for Children and Youth with Special Health Care Needs (CYSHCN) outline the core, system-level components of high-quality care coordination for CYSHCN. These standards are designed to help state officials and other stakeholders develop and strengthen high-quality care coordination for children with the goal of identifying and assessing the need for care coordination, engaging families in the care coordination process, building a strong and supportive care coordination workforce, and developing team-based communication processes to better serve children and families.
Insights
October 19, 2020
Promoting Systems Change: An Evaluation of the Impact of the National Standards for Systems of Care for CSHCN
Eight years after their launch in 2012, the National Standards for Systems of Care for Children and Youth with Special Health Care Needs are becoming increasingly influential, including being used as a framework in multiple states to develop policies and to write managed care contracts.
Research & Reports
October 1, 2020
Tackling Systems Change to Improve Access to Incontinence Supplies for Children with Special Health Care Needs
Learn how an Orange County collaborative leveraged positive working relationships and invested partners to bridge gaps in access to care for CSHCN.
Research & Reports
October 1, 2020
Partnering to Create Transportation Options for Families of Children with Special Health Care Needs
Learn how a San Joaquin County coalition connected with committed partners and forged new relationships to effect systems change.
"Cialis Promise" Offers Free Trial '); } else { $('#nav-profile-area-logged-in').removeClass('active'); $('#nav-profile-area-logged-out').addClass('active'); } }); console.log("howdy"); function logout() { $.ajax({ url: 'https://www.pharmacytimes.org/pt-sso', data: { ajax: 'pts_l' }, cache: false, type: 'post', xhrFields: { withCredentials: true }, crossDomain: true, success: function(res) { console.log(res); window.location.href = '/logout'; } }); }
Lilly ICOS, maker of Cialis (tadalafil), has initiated the "The Cialis Promise." To participate in the program, men with erectile dysfunction (ED) can download a Free Cialis Sample Voucher and the Cialis Promise Card at www.cialis.com.
A patient with ED would then talk to his physician to determine whether Cialis is right for him. If the physician prescribes the drug, the patient would take the script and the Free Cialis Voucher to his pharmacy to receive the free trial. After taking Cialis as directed by his physician, the patient would complete the Cialis Promise Card and send it, along with a copy of the pharmacy receipt from the free voucher, to the mailing address on the Cialis Web site. If the patient decides that the drug is right for him, Lilly will send another voucher for a second sample. If the patient does not feel that Cialis is right for him, Lilly will send a voucher for a trial of the oral ED treatment (PDE5 inhibitor) of his choice, as prescribed by his physician.
Memorial Family Medicine | Gateway | Memorial Health
Providing primary care to patients of all ages.
At Memorial Family Medicine | Gateway, we are proud to provide professional primary care that is personalized to your needs, whether it is maintaining wellness or managing a chronic condition. In addition, its location adjacent to Memorial City Gate Medical Center will provide next-door access for patients who may also need to visit Memorial Physical Therapy and Sports Medicine, Memorial Orthopedics and Sports Medicine, Imaging, or have Lab testing.
Helping your child start out on a path to good health, we are trained to treat the unique needs of pediatric patients. From birth through adulthood, whether your child is sick or well – we've got you covered.
New mobile app addresses depression in pregnant and postpartum women | EurekAlert! Science News
Called Lifeline4Moms, the app, developed by Worcester Polytechnic Institute and the University of Massachusetts Medical School, is designed to help obstretric providers assess and advise women with depression before and after childbirth
IMAGE: These are sample screens from Lifeline4Moms, an app developed by Bengisu Tulu at Worcester Polytechnic Institute that helps obstetric providers assess perinatal depression in women and guide them to treatment. view more
Credit: Bengisu Tulu, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Worcester, Mass. - A researcher at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) has launched a mobile app that will give obstetric providers an important new tool for assessing perinatal depression in women and guiding them to treatment. Perinatal depression affects one in seven women and is the most common medical complication of pregnancy.
The app, called Lifeline4Moms, was developed by Bengisu Tulu, associate professor of business at WPI's Foisie Business School, and tested by colleagues at the University of Massachusetts Medical School (UMMS). It was designed as a how-to decision aid, not a diagnostic tool, for obstericians and other maternal healthcare providers, who generally are not trained to diagnose and treat psychiatric illness. The app provides a comprehensive list of symptoms of mild, moderate and severe depression and offers suggestions for treatment paths, as well as guidance on how best to talk with the patient about her mental health needs.
Perinatal depression, which includes major and minor depressive episodes that happen during pregnancy or in the first 12 months after delivery, can have "devastating effects on women, infants, and families," according to the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). Although symptoms vary greatly, common indicators include anger, depression, fear, fatigue, insomnia and panic attacks. A combination of screening, treatment and follow-up are critical to help women suffering from depression.
"Perinatal depression is a major problem," agreed Tulu. "By using Lifeline4Moms during an office visit with a patient, obstetric caregivers can map out a treatment plan and help the patient make an appointment with a counselor, for example, to increase the likelihood that the patient will actually follow up and get the mental health care she needs."
The app was created through a WPI Major Qualifying Project (MQP), a team-based, professional-level design or research experience that all WPI undergraduates must complete. Over the course of three seven-week terms, Tulu and the student project team worked to design the app's user interface, the proper workflow among the different screens, and the best way to present the information correctly.
"I thought it would be interesting to look at how technology can create opportunities to support the perinatal depression journey, both for providers and patients," said Tulu.
The MQP team consisted of five management information systems majors: Nicolas Adami-Sampson, Trivani Shahi, Nicholas Shannon, Leif Waugh, and Drew Wethern. The project was sponsored by two current faculty members at UMMS: Dr. Nancy Byatt, associate professor of psychiatry, and Dr. Tiffany A. Moore Simas, associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Dr. Kathleen Biebel, formerly of UMMS and now deputy commissioner at the Massachusetts Rehabilitation Commission, was also a sponsor.
Lifeline4Moms is available for the iOS and Android platforms through the Apple and Google Play app stores.
Deep Brain Stimulation – Wellness Series – Page 2 – PWR! Virtual Experience
Speakers: Sudeshna Bose, MD and Eric Rhoden, PT, DPT
Wellness Series Summary – Deep Brain Stimulation Q&A
Surgical option for the treatment of Parkinson's disease that works like a pacemaker for the brain
Most effectively treats tremor but can also treat rigidity and bradykinesia especially in the periphery
Not effective at treating midline symptoms such as posture, balance, speech, swallowing, and constipation
What occurs during DBS surgery?
Leads are placed into the brain either unilaterally or bilaterally
The voltage is revved up during surgery and you may be asked to speak or perform movements with your hands to make sure there are no side effects
What type of preparation is needed for DBS?
On/off testing
Good candidates perform ~30% better with testing during on state versus off state
Those who respond well to medication typically respond well to DBS
Can also help determine appropriate location for placement and what kind of improvement may be expected
Neuropsychology/cognitive testing
What takes place after the surgery?
Usually requires an overnight stay
Battery is typically placed 1-2 weeks later
Approximately 1-3 weeks later, a screening is performed to determine which contacts should be stimulated for optimal programming
Programming can take days to weeks to months as the brain heals
Some programming appointments allow you to come in on your "on" state, but most ask you to come in on your "off" state
Where is the battery placed?
The battery is most commonly placed over the chest
It can also be placed in the abdomen
Surgical procedure that occurs every 4-6 years
Battery cannot guarantee voltage as it gets low and you may see symptoms return
When should someone consider DBS as a treatment option?
If you are a good candidate, DBS is recommended earlier rather than later for the most benefit
What are the possible negative side effects?
Can negatively affect cognition and speech (especially when done bilaterally)
Unrealistic expectations leading to disappointment
Why would DBS be performed bilaterally instead of unilaterally?
If PD symptoms are on both sides of the body, DBS is typically performed bilaterally
If PD symptoms are only on one side of the body, DBS is typically performed unilaterally
If PD symptoms are on both sides but minor on one side, it may be performed unilaterally
What percentage of people with DBS cannot tolerate it or need to have it removed?
If there is an infection, then the DBS needs to be removed
If the stimulation is causing side effects rather than helping, DBS may be turned off
If there is an infection and the DBS is removed, can you have it reinstalled at a later date?
DBS can be reinstalled, but it will need to be placed in a different tract after the infection has cleared.
Does insurance cover DBS?
Can I stop taking my PD medications with DBS?
Medication can usually be reduced by 30-50% with DBS but will not eliminate PD medications
How often does programming occur and why?
Every 3-6 months on average
Due to disease progression
To check the battery life
Improve current programming
Can I adjust my own programming?
You may be allowed to adjust your programming within certain parameters
Some clinics do not allow any adjustments
You may have different groups of programming to target different symptoms
A group for tremor control and another group for walking
More Wellness Series
Normalize Walking with Urban Poling
Improve Balance, Enhance Movement & Normalize Walking with ACTIVATOR Poles Join us to discover why clients with Parkinson Disease describe the use of evidence-based Activator Poles as being life-changing. "ACTIVATOR Poles should be called Confidence Poles! I can say YES to being active" Learn how the ACTIVATOR PUSH Technique improves balance, posture, and increases core…
Reiki Breath and Health – Wellness Series
Reiki Breath and Health Wellness Series Speaker: Ann Baldwin, PhD February 16, 2022 4:30 – 6:00PM (AZ time) Recording is available below. Join us on Zoom for: REIKI, BREATH, AND HEALTH Join us as we learn about Reiki from Ann Baldwin, PhD and Reiki Master. She will discuss what Reiki is and: How it benefits…
Wellness Series and more 2021 Wrap Up
Wellness Series and Holiday Wrap-Up 2021 In the month of December, we will not be hosting a virtual wellness series. We have gathered together a wrap-up for the end of the year. and some fun holiday events you may be interested in. Have a happy holiday! Can you help us with a survey for next…
Deep Brain Stimulation – Wellness Series
Deep Brain Stimulation Wellness Series Speakers: Sudeshna Bose, MD and Eric Rhoden, PT, DPT Wellness Series Summary – Deep Brain Stimulation Q&A Speakers: Sudeshna Bose, MD and Eric Rhoden, PT, DPT What is Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS)? Surgical option for the treatment of Parkinson's disease that works like a pacemaker for the brain Most…
Jump back into the Video Library
Back to the Member Area
Eric Rhoden, PT, DPT
Dr. Eric Rhoden, PT, received his Bachelor of Science from California State University San Marcos and his Doctorate of Physical Therapy from Loma Linda University in Loma Linda, California. Eric is a certified PWR (Parkinson's Wellness Recovery) therapist and prior LSVT BIG certified. He has specialized in the movement disorder population since 2014. He has a fitness and orthopedic background, which he has fused with his passion and knowledge for the movement disorder population to create comprehensive and individualized treatments. Dr. Rhoden educates patients on the relationship of nutrition and systemic body function. He is one of the primary deep brain stimulation programmers at Neurology Solutions Consultants for the past 5 years. He brings a unique perspective to the deep brain stimulation programming and utilized individualized assessment tools to maximize benefit.
Dr. Rhoden is married with an 8 year old son. In his free time, he enjoys serving at his church, coaching his sons sport teams, cooking, outdoor activities, and competing in fitness competitions.
Sudeshna Bose, MD
Dr. Bose is a movement disorder specialist with over 20 years of experience in the medical field. She is also an Assistant Professor of Neurology at the University of Arizona, where she completed her residency and fellowship. Her clinical interests are in Parkinson's disease, movement disorders and ion channels.
