Fire Fighter Fatality Investigation Report F2001-11 | NIOSH | CDC
Driver/Operator Suffers a Cardiac Arrest During a Wildland Fire Exercise - Georgia
F2001-11 Date Released: September 27, 2001
On November 16, 2000, a 49-year-old male Driver/Operator (D/O) participated in a wildland fire exercise as part of the United States Forest Service Wildland Fire Fighter Ared card@ certification. After cleaning debris from the plowline, the D/O collapsed. Despite cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and advanced life support (ALS) performed on the scene by crew members and paramedics, and by hospital personnel at the emergency department (ED), the victim died. The death certificate, completed by the Medical Examiner, listed Aatherosclerotic cardiovascular disease@ as the immediate cause of death. The autopsy report, completed by the Medical Examiner, listed "heart rhythm disturbance (arrhythmia)" as the cause of death and Aatherosclerotic cardiovascular disease@ as the contributing factor.
The following recommendations address some general health and safety issues identified during this investigation. This list includes some preventive measures that have been recommended by other agencies to reduce the risk of on-the-job heart attacks and sudden cardiac arrest among fire fighters. These selected recommendations have not been evaluated by NIOSH, but represent published research, consensus votes of technical committees of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) or fire service labor/management groups. Issues relevant to this Fire Department include
On November 16, 2000, a 49-year-old male Driver/Operator died after suffering a cardiac arrest while performing fire fighting activities at a wildland fire exercise. On January 18, 2001, NIOSH contacted the affected Fire Department to initiate the investigation. On March 21, 2001, a Safety and Occupational Health Specialist and an Epidemiologist from the NIOSH Fire Fighter Fatality Investigation Team traveled to Georgia to conduct an on-site investigation of the incident.
During the investigation, NIOSH personnel interviewed the following:
The victim=s family
Fire Department physical examination records maintained by the Preventive Medicine clinic
Victim's medical records maintained by his private physician
Incident. On November 16, 2000, the victim completed his 24-hour shift at 0800 hours. He and two other crew members from the involved Fire Department were scheduled to participate in a wildland fire exercise as part of the US Forest Service Ared card@ certification process. They were joined by 13 personnel from neighboring fire departments that formed the Georgia Mutual Aid Group (GMAG), in addition to local emergency medical personnel. At 0830 hours, a prebriefing was held to make assignments and to survey the area to be burned. Over 20 personnel were on the scene; they were divided into two squads. An instructor, Liaison, Safety, Medical, and Engine Support positions completed the roster.
The burn area was level ground, comprised of grass, and measured approximately 200 by 100 feet. The plow lines (area cleared of all vegetation by a tractor and plow) were approximately 200 feet long, and the hand line (area cleared of all vegetation by shovels and rakes) was approximately 100 feet long. The victim was assigned as Squad 1 Leader. At 0945 hours, both squads dug a hand line approximately 100 feet long, which took approximately 2 hours. Crew members were wearing forestry gear (Nomex coat and pants, leather boots, wildland helmet, and leather gloves) weighing approximately 10 lbs. During this time, the victim did not report any symptoms suggestive of heart problems. At approximately 1130 hours, the victim returned to his station for a break, and, after approximately 15 minutes, returned to the exercise site.
On the scene, the fire was set, but the grass would not burn. The squads= skills at digging hand lines were assessed, and the hand line was abandoned. Both squads were then assigned to clean debris from the plow line. During this phase, at 1153 hours, the victim collapsed. He had a seizure that lasted approximately 1 minute, and then he stopped breathing. His squad carried him to the corner of a nearby parking lot while the IC notified Dispatch of a man down, and the Safety Officer notified the ambulance from the neighboring city. (This ambulance service has a primary emergency medical response agreement with this military installation).
Initial assessment of the victim by crew members revealed that he was unresponsive, not breathing, and pulseless. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) (chest compressions and assisted ventilations via bag-valve-mask) was begun. Engine 22 and Rescue 2 were dispatched at 1155 hours and arrived on the scene at 1157 hours. The victim was found to be unresponsive, not breathing, and pulseless, and CPR was in progress. Oxygen (100%) was administered, an automated external defibrillator (AED) was attached to the victim, and he was placed on a backboard. Three electrocardioversions (shocks) were delivered with no change in patient status. The ambulance arrived, and the victim was loaded into the ambulance while advanced life support (ALS) measures (intubation, IV, and resuscitation medications) were initiated. Another defibrillation was administered, and a normal sinus rhythm was obtained for approximately 30 seconds, but the victim's heart then stopped beating (asystole). The ambulance departed the scene enroute to the hospital at 1230 hours and CPR and ALS continued while enroute.
Once the victim was inside the hospital's emergency department (ED), a cardiac monitor revealed ventricular fibrillation. Six additional shocks were administered, but no pulse was regained. The victim was pronounced dead by the attending physician at 1250 hours, and resuscitation efforts were stopped.
Medical Findings. The death certificate, completed by the Medical Examiner, listed "atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease" as the immediate cause of death.
70 % stenosis, left main coronary artery
70-90 % stenosis, multi-focal, left anterior descending coronary artery
complete occlusion, circumflex coronary artery
Vascular congestion, all internal organs
Medical records indicated that the victim had seven risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD): male gender, advanced age (greater than 45 years old), smoking, family history of CAD, hypertension, high cholesterol, and lack of regular physical activity. The victim was not prescribed antihypertensive or cholesterol-lowering medications. On April 17, 2000, a routine occupational physical examination revealed a change in his cholesterol and blood pressure. (His blood pressure went from 137/83 mm/Hg in 1998 to 157/63 mm/Hg, and his cholesterol level went from 190 mg/dl in 1998 to 259 mg/dl). A chest X-ray revealed the heart and great vessels were within normal limits. He was subsequently evaluated by his personal physician and returned to duty.
The victim had not expressed any signs or symptoms of chest pain or discomfort to his family, coworkers, or health care providers. On November 15, the day before the victim's sudden death, he reported for work at 0800 hours. Throughout the day, he performed equipment checks on his pumper (Engine 11), after which he attended a meeting and training. At 1425 hours, Engine 11 responded to a motor vehicle accident (car struck a deer). The victim and his crew members checked the driver of the vehicle, who refused further treatment. At 1451 hours, Engine 11 responded to a smell of gas in a building. The victim remained with the Engine as the building was checked by the crew members. No hazardous condition was found and the Engine returned to quarters. No other responses occurred during his shift. However, the victim related to his coworkers that he had remained awake most of the night due to both occupational and nonoccupational stress.
At the time of the NIOSH investigation, the Fire Department, situated on two local military installations, consisted of 30 uniformed career personnel. The Department served a total population of 10,000 residents on the two military installations in a total geographic area of 3 square miles. There are two fire stations (one located at each of the two military installations, which are approximately 15 miles apart). Fire fighters, including the victim, work one of two shifts from 0800-0800 hours, and work 24 hours on duty, 24 hours off duty, for six tours and are then off duty for 3 days.
In 1999, the Department responded to 1,274 calls: 421 false alarms, 304 other fires, 240 rescue calls, 142 hazardous condition/standby calls, 72 other calls, 66 trouble alarms, 11 prescribed burns, 8 gas leaks, 3 vehicle fires, 3 mutual aid (off-installation) calls, 2 electrical fires, 2 refuse fires, and 1 grass fire. The station to which the victim was assigned responded to 707 calls: 300 other fires, 162 rescue calls, 116 false alarms, 89 hazardous condition/standby calls, 11 prescribed burns, 10 trouble alarms, 8 gas leaks, 3 vehicle fires, 3 mutual aid (off-installation) calls, 2 electrical fires, 2 refuse fires, and 1 grass fire.
Training. The Fire Department requires all new fire fighters to pass a preemployment physical examination (discussed below). The new fire fighter must be precertified to the level required by the vacant position. Subsequent training is conducted on the shift. Fire fighters certified in hazardous materials (Hazmat), CPR, and EMT are recertified annually. The victim was certified as a Fire Fighter II, EMT, Hazmat, and Driver/Operator, and he had 17 years of fire fighting experience. He was currently serving as a Sergeant and a Driver/Operator.
Blood tests: complete blood count (CBC), metabolic profile, lipid profile, and liver function battery
Periodic Evaluations. Periodic medical evaluations are required annually by this Department. Components of this are the same as the preplacement evaluation, except a chest X-ray is not included. These evaluations are performed by the installation physician, and the medical clearance decision for each examination is forwarded to the Fire Department. If an employee is injured at work or ill, the employee is evaluated and must be cleared for Areturn to work@ by the installation physician. Input from the employee=s private physician is considered at this point. As described earlier, the victim=s last Fire Department medical examination was in April, 2000. Due to his increased blood pressure and cholesterol, he was referred to his private physician. After this evaluation, his physician recommended that he be returned to full duty.
The installation has exercise (strength and/or aerobic) equipment which can be used by fire fighters while on duty. However, the Fire Department does not have a mandatory exercise/fitness program. Wellness programs (smoking cessation, weight control, high blood pressure, diabetes, or cholesterol) are also offered by the installation.
In the United States, coronary artery disease (atherosclerosis) is the most common risk factor for cardiac arrest and sudden cardiac death.1 Risk factors for its development include age over 45, male gender, family history of coronary artery disease, smoking, high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, obesity, physical inactivity, and diabetes.2 The victim had seven of these risk factors.
The narrowing of the coronary arteries by atherosclerotic plaques occurs over many years, typically decades.3 However, the growth of these plaques probably occurs in a nonlinear, often abrupt fashion.4 Heart attacks typically occur with the sudden development of complete blockage (occlusion) in one or more coronary arteries that have not developed a collateral blood supply.5 This sudden blockage is primarily due to blood clots (thrombosis) forming on top of atherosclerotic plaques. The victim=s autopsy report identified complete occlusion of the circumflex artery. However, no thrombus was identified.
Fire fighting is widely acknowledged to be one of the most physically demanding and hazardous of all civilian occupations.8 Fire fighting activities are strenuous and often require fire fighters to work at near maximal heart rates for long periods. The increase in heart rate has been shown to begin with responding to the initial alarm and persist through the course of fire suppression activities.9-11 Epidemiologic studies have found that heavy physical exertion sometimes immediately precedes and triggers the onset of acute heart attacks.12-16 The victim had assisted in digging a hand line and then with clearing debris from the plow line; this is considered "moderate to heavy work," requiring 5-7 metabolic equivalents (METS).13,17-19
Psychologic and physiologic stress have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease: gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, and emotional disorders; workplace injury; and impaired immune function.20,21 The victim related to crew members that he was experiencing a large amount of occupational and nonoccupational stress. The day prior to his collapse, the victim worked a 24-hour shift and had reportedly stayed awake late into the night due to these stress factors.
The Department requires a preemployment/preplacement medical examination for all new hires and annual medical evaluations. The annual medical evaluations/examination program differs in two ways from National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 1582, Standard on Medical Requirements for Fire Fighters and Information for Fire Department Physicians. First, while NFPA recommends annual medical evaluations, they recommend extensive medical examinations on a periodic basis according to the age of the fire fighter (less than 30: every 3 years; 30-39: every 2 years; over 40 years: every year).22 The second difference with NFPA 1582 is that NFPA 1582 recommends fire fighters over the age of 35 with risk factors for CAD undergo an EST.22
The EST can be used to screen individuals for obstructive CAD. Unfortunately, it has problems with both false negatives (inadequate sensitivity) and false positives (inadequate specificity), particularly for asymptomatic individuals (individuals without symptoms suggestive of angina), young men, and women.23,24 Despite these problems, NFPA 1582 nevertheless recommends EST for fire fighters without risk factors for CAD beginning at age 40.22 Other expert groups do not recommend EST for asymptomatic individuals without risk factors for CAD.25-27
When these asymptomatic individuals have risk factors for CAD, recommendations vary by organization. NFPA recommends biannual EST for fire fighters with CAD risk factors beginning at age 35.22 The medical certification for the commercial drivers license (CDL) issued by the Department of Transportation (DOT) recommends EST for drivers over the age of 45 with more than two CAD risk factors.25 Since the victim was a Driver/Operator for the Fire Department, this regulation would seem to have relevance, but miliary installations and municipal fire departments are exempt from the DOT regulations.28 In addition, the DOT medical advisory criteria are just that, advisory. The American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) identifies four groups for EST, although they note that the Ausefulness/efficacy is less well established by evidence/opinion.@26
Group 1: Persons with multiple risk factors. Five risk factors for CAD are defined: hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol greater than 240 mg/dL), hypertension (systolic greater than 140 mm Hg or diastolic greater than 90 mm Hg), smoking, diabetes, and family history of premature CAD (cardiac event in first-degree relative less than 60 years old).
Finally, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) does not recommend EST for asymptomatic individuals, even those with risk factors for CAD; rather, they recommend the diagnosis and treatment of modifiable risk factors (hypertension, high cholesterol, smoking, and diabetes).27 The USPSTF indicates that evidence is insufficient to recommend screening middle age and older men or women in the general population; however, Ascreening individuals in certain occupations (pilots, truck drivers, etc.) can be recommended on other grounds, including the possible benefits to public safety.27
It is possible that an EST on the victim would have identified his CAD and, if treatment were initiated, might have prevented his sudden cardiac death.
The following recommendations address health and safety issues identified during this investigation. This list includes some preventive measures that have been recommended by other agencies to reduce the risk of on-the-job cardiac arrest among fire fighters. These recommendations have not been evaluated by NIOSH but represent published research or consensus votes of Technical Committees of the National Fire Protection Association or labor/management groups within the fire service.
NFPA 1582, Standard on Medical Requirements for Fire Fighters and Information for Fire Department Physicians, and the International Association of Fire Fighters/International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFF/IAFC) wellness/fitness initiative both recommend at least biannual EST for fire fighters.22,29 They recommend that these tests begin at age 35 for those with CAD risk factors and at age 40 for those without CAD risk factors. The EST could be conducted by the fire fighter=s personal physician (at Fire Department expense) or the installation physician. If the fire fighter=s personal physician conducts the test, the results must be communicated to the installation physician, who should be responsible for decisions regarding medical clearance for fire fighting duties.
Recommendation #2: Clear Fire fighters for duty by a physician knowledgeable about the physical demands of fire fighting and the various components of NFPA 1582.
Physicians providing input regarding medical clearance for fire fighting duties should be knowledgeable about the physical demands of fire fighting and familiar with the consensus guidelines published by NFPA 1582, Standard on Medical Requirements for Fire Fighters and Information for Fire Department Physicians. To ensure private physicians are aware of these guidelines, we recommend that the installation Preventive Medicine Clinic provide the private physicians with a copy of NFPA 1582. In addition, we recommend the installation Preventive Medicine Clinic not automatically accept the opinion of the employee=s private physician regarding return to work. This decision requires knowledge not only of the employee's medical condition but also the employee's job duties. Frequently, private physicians are not familiar with an employee's job duties or guidance documents such as NFPA 1582. Thus, the final decision regarding medical clearance for return to work lies with the installation physician with input from many sources, including the employee=s private physician.
NFPA 1500, Standard on Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health Program, requires a wellness program that provides health promotion activities for preventing health problems and enhancing overall well-being.30 The International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF) and the International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) joined in a comprehensive Fire Service Joint Labor Management Wellness/Fitness Initiative to improve fire fighter quality of life and maintain physical and mental capabilities of fire fighters. Ten fire departments across the United States joined this effort to pool information about their physical fitness programs and to create a practical fire service program. They produced a manual and a video detailing elements of such a program.29 The Wellness/Fitness Initiative provides guidance regarding wellness program content, to include physical examination and evaluation, fitness, and behavioral health. Stress management and prevention is a key component of behavioral health. Stress management should address such issues as job stress, family relations, financial concerns, and personal concerns.21,29 Wellness programs have been shown to be cost effective, typically by reducing the number of work-related injuries and lost work days.31-33 A similar cost savings has been reported by the wellness program at the Phoenix Fire Department, where a 12-year commitment has resulted in a significant reduction in their disability pension costs.34
1. Fauci AS, Braunwald E, Isselbacher KJ, et al. [1998]. Harrison=s principles of internal medicine. 14th Ed. McGraw-Hill: New York, pp. 222-225.
2. American Heart Association (AHA)[1998]. AHA scientific position, risk factors for coronary artery disease, Dallas, TX.
3. Fauci AS, Braunwald E, Isselbacher KJ, et al. [1998]. Harrison=s principles of internal medicine. 14th Ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, p. 1348.
4. Shah PK[1997]. Plaque disruption and coronary thrombosis: new insight into pathogenesis and prevention. Clin Cardiol 20 (11 Suppl2): II-38-44.
6. Kondo NI, Muller JE[1995]. Triggering of acute myocardial infarction. J Cardiovasc Risk 2(6):499-504.
15. Tofler GH, Muller JE, Stone PH, et al. [1992] Modifiers of timing and possible triggers of acute myocardial infarction in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction Phase II (TIMI II) Study Group. J Am Coll Cardiol 20:1049-55.
17. United States Department of Agriculture [1997]. Fitness and work capacity. US Forest Service: Washington, DC, p. 47.
19. Ainsworth BE, Haskell WL, Leon AS, et al. [1993]. Compendium of physical activities: classification of energy costs of human physical activities. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 25:71-80.
20. Dutton LM, Smolensky MH, Leach CS, et al. [1978]. Stress levels of ambulance paramedics and fire fighters. J Occ Med 20(2); 111-115.
21. United States Department of Health and Human Services [1999]. Stress at work. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 99-101.
23. Michaelides AP, Psomadaki ZD, Dilaveris PE, et al [1999]. Improved detection of coronary artery disease by exercise electrocardiography with the use of right precordial leads. New Eng J Med 340:340-345.
24. Darrow MD [1999]. Ordering and understanding the exercise stress test. American Family Physician. January 15, 1999.
25. 42 CFR 391.41. Code of Federal Regulations. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration: Medical Advisory Criteria for Evaluation under 49 CFR Part 391.41. Washington, DC: National Archives and Records Administration, Office of the Federal Register. Available from the DOT web site at: http://www.occenvmed.net/dot/cardioconf.htm
26. Gibbons RJ, Balady GJ, Beasley JW, Bricker JT, Duvernoy WFC, Froelicher VF, Mark DB, Marwick TH, McCallister BD, Thompson PD, Winters WL Jr, Yanowitz FG.[1997]. ACC/AHA guidelines for exercise testing: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Committee on Exercise Testing). J Am Coll Cardiol. 30:260-315.
27. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force [1996]. Guide to clinical prevention services, 2nd ed. Williams & Wilkins: Baltimore, MD , pp. 3-15.
28. 49 CFR 391.41. Code of Federal Regulations. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration: Subpart E — Physical Qualifications and Examinations. Washington, DC: National Archives and Records Administration, Office of the Federal Register.
29. International Association of Fire Fighters [2000]. The fire service joint labor management wellness/fitness initiative. International Association of Fire Fighters, Department of Occupational Health and Safety: Washington, DC.
30. National Fire Protection Association [1997]. NFPA 1500, standard on fire department occupational safety and health program. NFPA: Quincy, MA.
31. National Institute of Consulting Services, 1996.
32. Maniscalco P, Lane R, Welke M, Mitchell J, Husting L [1999]. Decreased rate of back injuries through a wellness program for offshore petroleum employees. J Occup Environ Med 41:813-820.
33. Stein AD, Shakour SK, Zuidema RA [2000]. Financial incentives, participation in employer sponsored health promotion, and changes in employee health and productivity: HealthPlus health quotient program. JOEM 42:1148-1155.
34. Unpublished data. City Auditor, City of Phoenix, AZ. Disability retirement program evaluation. Jan. 28, 1997.
This investigation was conducted by and the report written by Kristen Sexson, MPH, Epidemiologist, and Tommy N. Baldwin, MS, Safety and Occupational Health Specialist. Ms. Sexson and Mr. Baldwin are with the NIOSH Fire Fighter Fatality Investigation and Prevention Program, Cardiovascular Disease Component, located in Cincinnati, OH.
Jan 2, 2014 - 3:19:20 PM
(HealthNewsDigest.com) - Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center investigators have genetically engineered a new mouse that mimics a common form of leukemia in humans. Studying the model could lead to new understanding of the disease, they say.
Mutations in FLT3 are found in various regions of the gene, and the Hopkins scientists designed the mouse to better understand the workings of the two most common ones in AML. They are: ITD mutations, which cause a very aggressive form of the disease, and D835Y mutations, which cause a less aggressive form of the disease. The new mouse specifically expresses D835Y mutations. Mice bred to express ITD mutations were previously developed by the Hopkins team.
In work published online Nov. 18 in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Small and his colleagues reported that FLT3 mutation types (either D835Y or ITD) are directly related to the aggressiveness of disease. In laboratory studies, the investigators found that mice with D835Y mutations, like people, develop much less aggressive disease than those with ITD mutations, both in disease severity and survival. D835Y mice lived an average of 1.5 times longer than those with ITD mutations - an average of 678 days versus 430 days. Those with the D835Y mutations also maintained a higher white blood-cell count and were not nearly as depleted in blood stem cells as those with the ITD mutations. The D835Y mutant mice also developed a broader spectrum of blood cancers, including lymphomas.
10 Best Well being And Health Blogs For A Wholesome 2019 - AvatarNailspa
Most cancers is a bunch of illnesses involving abnormal cell development with the potential to…
Most cancers is a bunch of illnesses involving abnormal cell development with the potential to invade or unfold to other parts of the body. One other tablet would defend smokers, folks with hypertension and diabetics from strokes, the second-largest killer in rich international locations supply: WHO If you happen to assume individuals are inherently pleasure seekers, you'd count on them to eat no matter they needed, train less and smoke extra in a world stuffed with magical medical bullets.
You comply with not use the Companies to supply materials help or resources (or to hide or disguise the character, location, supply, or ownership of fabric assist or sources) to any group(s) designated by the United States government as a international terrorist group pursuant to part 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Within the United States, the Nationwide Alliance on Mental Illness estimate that nearly 1 in 5 adults experience mental well being issues annually.
Individuals with the illness can ease their symptoms, however there is no such thing as a specific remedy, so prevention by way of the yellow fever vaccine is vital. Organizations have a duty to support individuals with psychological problems in both persevering with or returning to work. Discover of cancellation, suspension or limitation of the Providers or your account. Conclusion: Sound health not only means protecting a health physique however it additionally features a healthy mental situation.
Typically, a nutritious diet consists of taking a proper and wholesome meals which incorporates eating inexperienced and contemporary greens, fruits, having milk, eggs, minerals, proteins and nutritional vitamins important for a human's way of life. A thrombotic stroke happens when a blood clot kinds in one of the arteries supplying blood to the mind. Conclusion: Well being is an important thing that an individual ought to handle. Main a healthy way of life leads to happiness, success and achievements.
In the U.S. and far of the developed world, mental disorders are one of the leading causes of disability. In a recent examine, a majority of young folks affiliate mental sickness with excessive sadness or violent tendencies fifty nine Now that youngsters have gotten increasingly open to technology and the media itself, future generations will then continue to pair psychological illness with adverse thoughts.
One in four patients visiting a well being service has at least one psychological, neurological or behavioural disorder however most of these issues are neither diagnosed nor handled. The common, reasonably energetic woman between the ages of 26-50 needs to eat about 2,000 energy per day to take care of her weight and 1,500 calories per day to lose 1 pound (zero.forty five kg) of weight per week.
People with untreated FAP have a considerably increased risk of developing colon or rectal cancer before age 40. As medical science has advanced, many illnesses with totally unknown causes have had some aspects of their sources explained and subsequently shed their idiopathic status. A current WHO-led research estimates that depression and nervousness problems value the worldwide financial system US$ 1 trillion annually in misplaced productiveness.
Pediatric Orthopedics: A Guide for the Primary Care Physician | Aug 01, 1995 | JAMA Pediatrics | JAMA Network
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 1995;149(8):933. doi:10.1001/archpedi.1995.02170210107023. Text Size: A A A
Pediatric Orthopedics: A Guide for the Primary Care Physician contains a wealth of information with regard to orthopedic conditions and disease processes seen by the primary care practitioner. The book is divided into sections, including "The Orthopedic Examination," "Extremity Pain/Limp," "Child Abuse," Developmental Orthopedics," "Motor Delay," "Congenital Skeletal Defects," "Abnormal Skeletal Growth," "Sports Injuries," "Spinal Disease," "Trauma," and "Arthritic States."The descriptive material is good. There are hundreds of excellent illustrations, photographic, radiologic, and schematic. However, only one of these illustrations is cross-referenced in the text. I searched but could not find another. The value of the monograph is reduced by this, since most readers will want to study text along with pictorial representations that are not always on the same page as the text.Hand in hand with this, legends contain more material than is necessary for identification. If referenced appropriately, most of this material, including some of
Return to: Pediatric Orthopedics: A Guide for the Primary Care Physician
Pomerance HH. Pediatric Orthopedics: A Guide for the Primary Care Physician. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 1995;149(8):933. doi:10.1001/archpedi.1995.02170210107023. Download citation file: RIS (Zotero)
Health checks, including screening for cervical cancer, are important for women in their 20’s and 30’s. Lifestyle issues such as weight management and pre-conception should also be addressed.
Breast cancer rate increases in women in their 40’s and annual screening is recommended. Diabetes and hypertensionare of concern, as well as pre- menopausal, aging and hormonal issues.
The risk of heart disease, colorectal cancer and osteoporosis increases. Screen for heart disease. Colonoscopy, bone density assessment and tests for age-related eye disease are recommended.
Continue with annual check-ups and keep an active lifestyle to reduce the likelihood of dementia and depression. Ask about vaccinations for influenza, shingles and pneumococcal disease.
Health screening is advised, especially if you have a family history of diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease. Lifestyle concerns include prevention of sexually transmitted diseases.
Screen for major illnesses such as heart disease, diabetes and lung cancer. Note that many diseases have been shown to be linked to lack of exercise, poor diet and weight gain.
Ideas in Action is a public forum to present discussion of issues that affect Florida’s economy, public policy, and concerns that touch the lives of many Floridians. The opinions expressed in this publication are solely those of the author(s), and do not necessarily reflect those held by the members, staff, or distinguished Board of Trustees of Florida TaxWatch.
Limited health care resources combined with an increased demand for quality care in Florida has led to essential innovations in our current health care delivery system. Telemedicine is one such innovation that Tallahassee Memorial HealthCare has implemented to expand access to care and extend the reach and impact of health care providers.
The Tallahassee Memorial Telemedicine Program uses secure videoconferencing to allow physicians, nurses, and other healthcare professionals to connect with patients remotely, rather than face-to-face. These visual connections combined with the use of peripherals such as high definition cameras and Bluetooth stethoscopes, allow for providers to effectively examine patients from a remote location. The Tallahassee Memorial Telemedicine Network currently consists of over 100 providers from across the region and includes primary care providers, specialists, and rural health partners. With the push of a button these contacts can have instant visual connection to facilitate effective, efficient service delivery.
The use of Telemedicine does not comprise quality of care provided, or change the way patients are cared for. What it does is change the communication method. The remote connections are particularly important for rural communities in the Big Bend Region and to patients with limited resources who cannot get to the care that they need. Telemedicine alleviates many of the transportation and geographic challenges by allowing patients to receive the care they need close to home.
Tallahassee Memorial is in its third year of implementation of the Telemedicine program and has already experienced significant benefits to all stakeholders including patients and their families, health care providers, and insurance carriers.
For patients, the most critical benefit is the ability to receive the right care at the right time. The use of Telemedicine technology removes geographic, transportation, and resource barriers. Patients can access care closer to home, in partnership with their primary care physician, with less time missed from work, school, or other commitments. Telemedicine allows patients to receive preventative care, rather than waiting for a health episode that may result in hospitalization. Thanks to a small grant from the Department of Health, TMH is currently providing Telepsychiatry services to Doctors Memorial in Perry and Weems East Clinic in Apalachicola through telemedicine. Patients can receive needed emergency or outpatient psychiatric services through telemedicine without traveling to Tallahassee.
The use of Telemedicine allows providers to be efficient and effective with their time, while also expanding their reach to a much broader patient population. The ability to coordinate care more closely with primary care providers, allows for specialists to increase patient outcomes and quality of care. TMH residency program faculty are using telemedicine to facilitate instant patient consults rather than waiting on a consulting physician to have to physically be where the patient is.
If fully implemented with the opportunity for reimbursement, private insurance companies, as well as Medicaid and Medicare would benefit from the cost efficiencies and timeliness of care provided through Telemedicine. Treating patients earlier reduces costs by eliminating emergency room visits and hospitalizations. The ability to connect providers with patients remotely also decreases costs associated with patient transfers. Telemedicine allows increased preventative care which reduces health costs associated with health episodes requiring a higher level of care and treatment. The challenge in Florida right now is there is no mandated reimbursement, so entities like TMH are reliant on grants for telemedicine funding. Through Low Income Pool Grant funding, TMH is operates a pilot program which includes telemonitoring of high risk patients at home by medical personnel through equipment that reports vitals such as weight, blood pressure, blood sugars, etc. so that interventions can be provided in a timely manner and so that patients are supported in proactively managing their own health. This monitoring reduces readmissions to the hospital and visits to the Emergency Department which saves time and money and improves outcomes for patients. A group of 25 high-risk TMH patients were monitored for 60 days and their hospital use decreased by 83%.
There are pilot projects across Florida that are using Telemedicine in a limited capacity, but there is not yet a fully integrated component of the State’s healthcare system primarily because there is no comprehensive Telemedicine legislation that defines Telemedicine or related requirements such as state licensure for providers, liability, and reimbursement. Telemedicine legislation was introduced during the past three legislative sessions, but it did not pass. The promise of improved patient care and reduced cost are too important to wait another session.
Blog - Clinetic Blog - Clinetic
Are you struggling from previous whiplash?
Did you know that each year, more than 2 million Americans experience whiplash? Whiplash is a neck injury due to forceful, rapid back and forth movement of the neck, like…
Continue Reading Are you struggling from previous whiplash?
Massage Therapy Benefits for Rheumatoid Arthritis
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS (RA) causes joint pain as inflammation attacks cartilage and bone, which has the potential to create damage. Reduces pain and improves functionRegular massage and self-massage can lead to…
Continue Reading Massage Therapy Benefits for Rheumatoid Arthritis
BENEFITS OF CHIA SEEDS Easy to eatHigh in fiberGood source of proteinGreat omega-3 to omega-6 fatty acids ratio BENEFITS OF CHIA SEEDS: Easy to eat: chia seeds are small, portable…
Continue Reading BENEFITS OF CHIA SEEDS
Staying physically active at home
How to Staying physically active at home? Sit less!Make stairs your new best friendMaintain strength using your own bodyweightDance the COVID-19 blues away! Here are some ways to stay physically…
Continue Reading Staying physically active at home
Hay fever is a type of environmental allergy
Your immune system produces substances called antibodies, which identify harmful substances in your body for "neutralization". Allergy symptoms occur when antibodies are released in response to benign substances (e,g., pollen,…
Continue Reading Hay fever is a type of environmental allergy
Pediatric Massage Therapy for Children
What is Pediatric Massage Therapy for Children? It is proven to increase dopamine (the feel-good hormone) and decrease cortisol (the stress hormone). This helps regulate anxiety and stress levels that…
Continue Reading Pediatric Massage Therapy for Children
A Naturopathic way to treat Endometriosis
Endometriosis is a disorder involving the endometrium, the tissue that lines the uterus. The endometrium is the tissue that, throughout the menstrual cycle thickens, breaks down and bleeds. In endometriosis,…
Continue Reading A Naturopathic way to treat Endometriosis
Naturopathic medicine treatment for Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
What is Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)? Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common condition characterized by constipation, diarrhea, gas and bloating and abdominal cramping. cause of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)…
Continue Reading Naturopathic medicine treatment for Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
Want to treat your neck pain?
Do you want to treat your neck pain? Neck pain can come from numerous causes that involve any of the tissues in the neck, joints, bones, ligaments, nerves or muscles.…
Continue Reading Want to treat your neck pain?
Benefits of Massage Therapy for Seniors • Sciatica pain relief• Increased circulation, mobility, and sleep• Relief from muscular tension, soreness, and fatigue• Reduced stress, anxiety, and pain through increased relaxation•…
Continue Reading Benefits of Massage Therapy for Seniors
15 Lesmill Rd, Unit 7, Toronto, ON M3B 2T3
Acupuncture Acupuncture canada Benefits of Massage Therapy benefits of visiting a Naturopath canada Acupuncture canada osteopathy Chiropractic clinetic clinetic canada clineticinc clinetic toronto depression Health manual osteopathic Massage massage life massage room Massage Therapist Massage Therapy Massage Therapy Canada massage therapy life Massage Therapy toronto naturopatchic naturopathic naturopathic medicine Naturopathy naturopathy canada Naturopathy offer Naturopathy toronto naturopathy torronto Osteoarthritis osteopathic osteopathic approach osteopathic canada osteopathictreatment Osteopathy osteopathy canada osteopathy clinic Osteopathy toronto osteopathy treatment psychotherapy registered massage therapist registered massage therapy treatment Why Naturopathy?
Warfarin is used in pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) treatment and has a narrow therapeutic index, drug and food interactions require routine monitoring and dose adjustment. Thus, warfarin treatment follow-up is difficult; therefore, direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) are increasingly used due to minimum monitoring, low drug interactions, and wide therapeutic ranges.1 Three large phase studies evaluated the effectiveness of DOACs and revealed that these drugs are at least as effective as warfarin in terms of antithrombotic efficacy and are associated with less major and/or minor bleeding events.2-8 The European Society of Cardiology and the European Respiratory Society guideline have recommended DOACs as the first treatment option for acute pulmonary embolism in eligible patients.9 The following terms of use are stated in the Communiqué on Health Practices in our country:
1. In cases where the target International Normalized Ratio (INR) value cannot be kept between 2 and 3 with warfarin in at least three of the last five measurements made at least 1 week apart after using warfarin for at least 2 months
2. Regardless of the condition of warfarin use, DOAC can be used in patients with recurrent idiopathic PTE, active cancer, homozygous thrombophilia with previous venous thromboembolism, or are immobile (provided that the reason is stated in the report).10The advantages of DOACs, such as simplified acute and long-term therapies in PTE treatment, improving patient outcomes, and increasing patient compliance, make them an attractive alternative to traditional therapy. However, the use of DOACs in patients with PTE having high-risk features or cancer and frail populations remains controversial.11 Thus, our study aimed to evaluate the frequency of DOAC usage in our country, the preferred patient groups, and the reasons for use.
The prospective cross-sectional survey study is based on the analysis of the national data on patients with PTE. The study was approved by the Ethical Committee of İstanbul Training and Research Hospital (2019/2004). Afterward, questionnaire forms were sent to the study centers. The clinical data (history, current treatment, treatment duration, etc.) of patients with PTE and who applied to the physician for follow-up between October 15, 2019, and March 15, 2020, were recorded by the centers. All patients aged 18 years or over who received anticoagulant therapy with PTE confirmed by computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CT-PA) or ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) scintigraphy were included in the study. Researchers were asked to ensure that patient records were consecutive. Patients who were just diagnosed and whose treatment was started for the first time were excluded from the study. Patients, who were already taking anticoagulant therapy, were included in the study at the first admission during the study period and were excluded from the study at the next follow-up visits.
Descriptive statistics, measures of central distribution and tendency, frequencies, and percentages were used to present the data analysis. The Statistical Package for Social Sciences version 22.0 for Windows software (IBM SPSS Statistics Data Editor) was used for data analyses. Descriptive data were represented as the number of participants and frequency. Continuous variables were represented as mean and standard deviation, and the Shapiro–Wilk test was used to determine the normality distribution of variables.
Based on the novel oral anticoagulants preference rates in previous studies, the required sample size was calculated as 797 for the study to have a power of 0.80 and a 1% margin of error. Upon adding 5% to account for the probable drop, a total sample size of 837 resulted.
Thirty-three researchers, all of whom were pulmonologists, participated in our study from 25 centers. They were working in 11 State Universities, 4 Training and Research Hospitals, 4 Chest Diseases Branch Hospitals, 4 State Hospitals, and 3 Private Universities. Data of 836 patients with acute PTE were collected. Most patient data were recorded from tertiary branch hospitals. Distribution rates of patients according to centers are given in Figure 1.
The mean age of patients was 61.6 ± 15.8 years, of whom 438 (52.4%) were males. Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) was sed in 226 (27%) patients, warfarin in 289 (34.5%), and DOAC in 320 (38.5%). Only 1 (0.1%) patient had a vena cava filter. Among 320 patients using DOAC, the most preferred was rivaroxaban (n = 294, 91.9%), whereas 18 patients (5.6%) with apixaban, 5 (1.6%) with dabigatran, and 3 (0.9%) with edoxaban. Of the patients who used DOAC, 133 (41.6%) did not achieve the targeted INR level with warfarin treatment, 101 (31.6%) had logistical (rural life, etc.) problems in warfarin monitoring, 74 (23.1%) had their preference, 62 (19.4%) with immobilization, 62 (19.4%) with recurrent embolism, 43 (13.4%) with a thrombophilic genetic mutation, 30 (9.4%) with cancer, and 31 (9.7%) with accompanying atrial fibrillation (AF)/arrhythmia (Table 1).Considering the distribution of physicians in starting DOAC treatment, 158 (49.4%) personally filled out the form, 134 (41.9%) by another physician in the same hospital, 10 (3.1%) by another state hospital, 9 (2.8%) by physicians of another training and research hospital, 6 (1.9%) by another university hospital physicians, and 3 (0.9%) by other private hospital physicians (Figure 2).
The median duration of DOAC use was 6 months (min: 1 and max: 58). Before DOAC, 244 (76%) patients had used another anticoagulant (LMWH or warfarin), with the median duration of use of these anticoagulants being 30 days (min: 1 and max: 6205). In 76 (24%) patients, DOAC was initiated at the time of diagnosis. Another antiaggregant drug is used by 30 (13.3%) of 226 patients using LMWH, 29 (10%) of 289 patients using warfarin, and 27 (8.5%) of 320 patients using DOAC.
Considering the frequency of DOAC preference according to the patients' comorbidity, 33 (22.6%) of 146 patients with cancer were using DOAC. The preference for DOAC was higher in patients with hypertension and hyperlipidemia compared to other anticoagulants. The rates of anticoagulants preferred according to comorbidities are presented in Figure 3. The comparison of patients with and without cancer in DOAC treatment duration revealed no statistically significant difference between the two groups (median 6 months [min: 1 and max: 48]; median 6 months [min: 1 and max: 210]; P = 0.565, respectively). DOAC was used by 41 (12.8%) patients who were 80 years old or older. The most common comorbidity was hypertension (n = 132, 41.25%). No patients were with creatinine clearance of <30 ml/min, whereas 12 patients have 30–50 ml/min (3.7%). Bleeding was reported in 13 (4%) of 320 patients using DOAC, of which 8 (2.5%) were minor and 5 (1.5%) were major bleeding that require urgent admission. No history of accompanying malignancy was found in patients with bleeding, and all patients were younger than 80 years old. No statistically significant difference was found between the ages of patients with and without bleeding (56.5 ± 15.7 and 62.36 ± 16.3, respectively, P = 0.21). Bleeding was seen in 11 (4.5%) of 244 patients who received bridging treatment, whereas 2 (2.6%) of 76 patients who did not receive bridging treatment (P = 0.469).
This study investigated the use of DOACs in patients who received anticoagulant treatment with a proven PTE diagnosis in Turkey and revealed that DOACs were prescribed for treatment in almost half of the patients. DOACs were preferred as a bridging treatment rather than the initial treatment for various reasons, mainly because of the failure to provide the required INR dose with warfarin. In this cross-sectional real-life data, bleeding rates were observed similar to the literature.12-14Studies that showed the effectiveness and safety of DOACs recommended it as the first choice for anticoagulation therapy in the appropriate patient in the European Society of Cardiology (ESC)/European Respiratory Society guideline for PTE management. Real-life data regarding the prescription frequency of DOACs have started to be presented in some countries nowadays.12-14 To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study from Turkey that focused on PTE treatment. The evaluation of all patients with PTE in this study revealed that DOACs were prescribed at a rate of 38.5% for treatment. Studies related to DOAC usage from our country are mostly conducted in patients with AF. The study that examined the Turkey data of the Global Anticoagulant Registry in the Field-AF revealed that the rate of DOAC initiation was 42.5% in the whole cohort.15 The RAMSES study reported a 37% rate of using DOAC in patients with AF. The results of both studies were similar to ours. The RAMSES study stated that the use of DOACs started to increase compared to previous studies due to the launching of drugs in our country and its recommendation as an alternative treatment for warfarins in the ESC 2012 guideline. The most commonly used DOAC in their study was dabigatran (18%), followed by rivaroxaban (15%) and apixaban (4%).16 Usage rates were in line with the dates when drugs were reimbursed by the Ministry of Health (May 2013 for dabigatran, October 2013 for rivaroxaban, and July 2014 for apixaban) in our country. Dabigatran was reported as the most commonly used DOAC in a study conducted in our country that included all patient groups, including a limited number of patients with PTE.17 Our study, unlike all these studies, revealed that rivaroxaban was the most preferred DOAC because of its ease of use in a single dose and inexpensive with similar efficacy. Additionally, while other studies were conducted with the participation of cardiologists, this study was conducted by pulmonologists. The differences between the physician groups suggested that in-branch training, correspondence, and webinars may be effective in the choice.
Our study revealed that 76% of patients were administered bridging therapy after another anticoagulant before DOAC treatment. The study of Jara-Palomares et al. revealed that 71% of patients had switched to rivaroxaban after previous treatment with heparin or warfarin.13 Another study revealed that 52.4% of patients were using another anticoagulant before changing their treatment to rivaroxaban. This study revealed that the average duration of use of other anticoagulants before rivaroxaban was 28 days and was similar to our study.14 Additionally, the most common reasons for switching to rivaroxaban were logistical difficulties for warfarin monitoring, inability to stabilize INR levels, and patient preference. Our study revealed the same reasons for initiating DOAC treatment.14 The bleeding rates associated with DOAC in our study were similar to those in these two studies.13,14 No relationship was observed between bleeding and patient age, additional antiaggregant use, and cancer history. Studies revealed that the bleeding rates could be affected by bridging therapy. However, in these studies the rates of patients who underwent bridging therapy were high. Unlike these two studies, our study revealed no statistically significant difference in bleeding rates between those with and without bridging therapy. Generally, considering the average age of our patients using DOAC and the use of additional antiaggregant and creatinine clearance values, the low bleeding rates may have been due to careful patient selection in the possibility of bleeding.
Our study has some limitations. The snapshot of the patient characteristics was evaluated since it was a cross-sectional study, thus we could not give information about the course of PTE, such as chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension or embolism under DOAC treatment. Additionally, the focus was on investigating the frequency of DOAC usage and the reasons for their preference, thus patient characteristics that used other anticoagulants were not evaluated in detail. Therefore, sufficient data could not be obtained to compare the characteristics of the two groups.
DOACs are used in PTE treatment in our country with considerable frequency. Bleeding frequency associated with DOAC was consistent with the literature. Bleeding was not observed with age, bridging therapy, and the presence of cancer. According to the literature, the low rate of bleeding was mostly associated with the selection of patients with low-risk bleeding and a low rate of antiaggregant usage. Our study draws attention to the increased use of DOAC in our country. This awareness is thought to guide future studies in investigating the effectiveness of these drugs in daily life in preventing embolic complications and comparing them with other anticoagulants.
Ethics Committee Approval: Ethics committee approval was received from the Ethics Committee of Istanbul Education and Research Hospital (date: 27/09/2019, approval number: 2004).
Author Contributions: Concept and Design – E.T., N.T.; Supervision – G.K., A.B., A.Ş., N.A., N.D.K.; Data Collection and/or Processing – A.Ş., A.B., N.A., N.A.Y., G.K., N.Ç., A.T., B.Z.Y., H.S.Ş., N.Ö., E.Ö., F.U., T.Ç., D.Esendağlı, İ.H., N.D.K., U.T., B.K., S.A., M.K., F.Ş., D.Ergun, E.Y.U., T.K., İ.G., J.Ç.E., D.D., F.Ö., M.D., S.A., E.Y., D.S.U., B.S.; Analysis and/or Interpretation – E.T., N.T., B.Z.Y.; Literature Search – E.T., N.T., D.D.; Writing – E.T.; Critical Review – N.T., N.D.K.
Conway SE, Hwang AY, Ponte CD, Gums JG. Laboratory and Clinical Monitoring of Direct Acting Oral Anticoagulants: What Clinicians Need to Know. Pharmacotherapy. 2017;37:236-248.
Einstein Investigators, Bauersachs R, Berkowitz SD, et al. Oral rivaroxaban for symptomatic venous thromboembolism. New Engl J Med. 2010;363:2499-2510.
Einstein-PE Investigators, Buller HR, Prins MH, et al. Oral rivaroxaban for the treatment of symptomatic pulmonary embolism. New Engl J Med. 2012;366:1287-1297.
Hokusai VTE Investigators, Buller HR, Decousus H, et al. Edoxaban versus warfarin for the treatment of symptomatic venous thromboembolism. New Engl J Med. 2013;369:1406-1415.
Schulman S, Kearon C, Kakkar AK, et al. Dabigatran versus warfarin in the treatment of acute venous thromboembolism. New Engl J Med. 2009;361:2342-2352.
Prins MH, Lensing AW, Bauersachs R, et al. Oral rivaroxaban versus standard therapy for the treatment of symptomatic venous thromboembolism: a pooled analysis of the EINSTEIN-DVT and PE randomized studies. Thrombosis Journal. 2013;11:21.
Konstantinides SV, Meyer G, Becattini C, et al. The Task Force for the diagnosis and management of acute pulmonary embolism of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). 2019 ESC Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of acute pulmonary embolism developed in collaboration with the European Respiratory Society (ERS): The Task Force for the diagnosis and management of acute pulmonary embolism of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Eur Respir J. 2019;54:1901647.
(24.03.2013 Resmî Gazete Sayısı: 28597.)
Eldredge JB, Spyropoulos AC. Direct oral anticoagulants in the treatment of pulmonary embolism. Curr Med Res Opin. 2018;34:131-140.
Chopard R, Andarelli JN, Humbert S, et al. Prescription patterns of direct oral anticoagulants in pulmonary embolism: A prospective multicenter French registry. Thromb Res. 2019;174:27-33.
Jara-Palomares L, Sanchez-Oro-Gomez R, Elias-Hernandez T, et al. Rivaroxaban for the treatment of venous thromboembolism. A 'real-life' perspective in 103 patients. Thromb Res. 2014;34:617-621.
Imberti D, Barillari G; eXperience VTE Italian Group. Real-Life Management of Venous Thromboembolism With Rivaroxaban: Results From EXperience VTE, an Italian Epidemiological Survey. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2018;24:241-247.
Sayın B, Okutucu S, Yılmaz MB, et al. Antithrombotic treatment patterns and stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation in TURKEY: inferences from GARFIELD-AF registry. Anatol J Cardiol. 2019;21:272-280.
Başaran O, Beton O, Doğan V, et al. ReAl-life Multicenter Survey Evaluating Stroke prevention strategies in non-valvular atrial fibrillation (RAMSES study). Anatol J Cardiol. 2016;16:734-741.
Altay S, Yıldırımtürk Ö, Çakmak HA, et al. New oral anticoagulants-TURKey (NOAC-TURK): Multicenter cross-sectional study. Anatol J Cardiol. 2017;17:353-361.
Nephritis test combo 9 urine test strips interpretation Product Parameters
2019-10-15 · The disease causes elevated blood and urine levels of the pancreatic digestive enzymes amylase and lipase. Caerulein-Induced Pancreatitis is a useful mouse model for screening therapeutic or prophylactic treatments. We have validated and optimized this inflammation model for assessment of test compound efficacy.
Pancreatitis and Nephritis | Two New Inflammatory Disease ...
【The interpretation of test results】 The purple bands, which appear at the quality-control control lines, is used as the internal control standards of the test paper strip. The purple bands appear gradation phenomenon at the testing line, when testing different specimens, and this is due to high and low concentrations of surface antigen.
2021-6-25 · Lupus nephritis is a serious problem. Its symptoms, though, are not always dramatic. For many, the first noticeable symptom is swelling of …
2021-6-22 · The concentration of creatinine is directly proportional to the color intensity of the test pad. View additional product details and instructions for micro albumin urine reagent strips. (pdf format) NOTE: The 2-1 combo strips ar for in vitro diagnostic use. Do not touch test areas.
Reagent Strips for Semi-Quantitative Determination of Albumin and Creatinine in Urine Page 1 of 2 INTENDED USE Teco Diagnostics' Microalbumin 2-1 Combo Strips (URS-2M) are used for semi-quantitative determination of albumin and creatinine in urine. Affixed to each firm plastic strip are two reagent areas that test for albumin and creatinine ...
Micro albumin Creatinine Reagent Urine Test Strips (25 ...
Microalbumin 2-1 Combo Strips (URS-2M) Visual Test Only ...
2018-1-12 · Alcohol Saliva Test Alcohol Urine Test Troponin I H-FABP Typhoid (IgG/IgM) Chlamydia NGH Syphilis TP-HBsAg HIV-TP Other New Rapid Tests (Alcohol, Cardiac) Wondfo Biotech 01 01 03 05 07 09 11 HBsAg Hepatitis B Surface Antigen Test HBsAb Hepatitis B Surface Antibody Test HBcAb Hepatitis B Core Antibody Test Hepatitis B Virus Combo Test(5 items)
Kidney Health - CATIE
2021-6-22 · A test to check for protein in the urine – Normally, protein is not found in a person's urine. With kidney damage, the kidneys may fail to separate blood proteins, such as albumin, from the waste they are filtering. Initially, only small amounts of albumin leak into the urine (a condition known as microalbuminuria). When
Family Health Screening Test Liver, Kidney, UTI, Diabetes ...
2021-6-12 · This Product: Family Health Screening Test Liver, Kidney, UTI, Diabetes & more - 6 Testing Strips - £ 3.89 Bowel Cancer Screening Kit Colon Testing Kits One Step 1 Test Pack - …
Rapid hCG test, HCG rapid diagnostic test - All medical ...
The QuickVue hCG Combo Test is a sensitive immunoassay that detects human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG) in serum or urine for the early detection of pregnancy. Compare this product Remove from comparison tool. See the other products. Quidel. rapid pregnancy test Stick hCG Simple hCG. hCG urine immunochromatographic.
Barclay's Miami Global Healthcare Conference – March 2020
2020-3-12 · Gazyva for Lupus Nephritis A serious condition with high unmet medical need CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report –2002 8 Lupus nephritis 500k patients1 globally with lupus nephritis • Proliferative lupus nephritis (LN) is characterized by: - Protein and blood in the urine, progressive loss of kidney function - Progressive loss of ...
Combo with A&P CH19 Urinary system test and 1 other ...
Combo with A&P CH19 Urinary system test and 1 other. STUDY. PLAY. ... triggered by RAAS process, promotes sodium and water reabsorption in nephron, reduces urine volume. Atrial Natriuretic Hormone. promotes loss of sodium and water into kidney tubules, increases urine volume ... Nephritis. inflammatory or infectious conditions of renal tissue.
Urinalysis Article - StatPearls
2021-5-9 · Introduction. Around 6,000 years ago, laboratory medicine began with the analysis of human urine as uroscopy, which later became termed urinalysis.The word 'uroscopy' derives from two Greek words: 'ouron,' which means urine and 'skopeoa,' which means to 'behold, contemplate, examine, inspect'.Ancient physicians spoke of urine as a window to the body's inner workings …
Microalbumin Test and Albumin in Urine: Normal Level and ...
Pyelonephritis Note and Scarring Notes | Koncpt
2020-8-27 · Pyelonephritis Note and Scarring Notes. Pyelonephritis Note: Chronic Pyelonephritis will cause #Scarring Notes only from Bailey & Love @ koncptnext.in
POC.527.03 hCG Rapid Test for urine by Cardinal Health-LBH ...
2017-10-9 · beyond expiration, discard test and get a new box of pregnancy kits. 4. Remove the Cardinal Health hCG rapid pregnancy Test from the pouch and place on a clean, dry, level surface. 5. Using the disposable pipettes supplied, in the pouch, add 3 full drops of urine to the round sample well on the test cassette. Do not pick up the cassette.
Microalbumin 2-1 combo Strip is designed to give semi-quantitative results for Microalbumin and Creatinine in random urine and also determine the albumin to creatinine ratio in random urine. For Professional Use Only . SUMMARY AND EXPLANATION OF THE TEST Microalbumin 2-1 combo Strip is a plastic strip to which two test pads are affixed
2021-3-2 · Urine Test Types & Procedure. There are two main types of urine creatinine tests: Random (spot) urine test, which is when you collect a urine sample at a random time in the day and bring it to the lab for analysis; 24h creatinine test, which involves storing your urine into a special container over a full 24-hour period before bringing it to the lab; 24h creatinine is preferred to …
Urine Creatinine Test Normal Range + Low & High Levels ...
Fertility Hormone Levels and Sperm Parameters -
2017-8-30 · Reaction pH • pH is the scale for measuring acidity or alkalinity • On standing, urine becomes alkaline due to formation of ammonia from urea and loss of CO2. Hence, freshly voided urine specimen is required. • Methods: • Normal pH is 4.6 to 8.0 1. Reagent strip method 2. Litmus paper test 3. pH meter. 39.
2021-5-5 · Glucose Test Strips 11.70.01.02 Cholesterol Test Strips 11.70.01.03 HDL Test Strips 11.70.01.04 Lactate Test Strips 11.70.01.05 Triglyceride Test Strips 11.70.01.06 Urea Test Strips 11.70.01.07 Monoclonal Antibodies for Cell Surface Antigens 13.05.01 13.05.01.01 Antibodies for B and T-cell subtyping 13.05.01.02 Antibodies for HLA class II ...
2021-5-13 · top 10 largest fashion women watches luxury brand watches role x list and get free shipping
Urinary Tract Infection - Deranged Physiology
2018-11-13 · The combo of infection + obstruction results in severe, rapid kidney damage (obstructive pyonephrosis) and is an important cause of Gram-negative septicaemia. Prevention: 2L/day fluid intake !! MOST IMPORTANT !! keep that urine cycling- flow rate will keep bacteria out voiding at 2-3 hour intervals with double micturition if reflux present
medical hbv test kit, medical hbv test kit Suppliers and ...
medical hbv test kit, Wholesale Various High Quality medical hbv test kit Products from Global Sodium Tripolyphosphate Suppliers and medical hbv test kit Factory,Importer,Exporter at Okchem.com. Please note that all emails sent by OKCHEM are from ***@okchem.com, [email protected] okchemvip.com, or [email protected]
UROLOGY NEPHROLOGY - Nephritic + Nephrotic
Zoom, add text labels, undo, and paste copied items by right clicking the background. Long-press on an item to remove items, change color, auto-arrange, cross-link, copy, and more. Long-press on the background to add labels, undo, and paste. Type : while editing or use the button along the top of the item editor.
PPT – Acute Interstitial Nephritis – Overview of Causes ...
Acute Interstitial Nephritis is a common kidney disorder that causes swelling or inflammation in the kidney. Acute Interstitial Nephritis is often linked with certain infections, drug therapies or it may be caused by some unknown agent. – A free PowerPoint PPT presentation (displayed as a Flash slide show) on PowerShow.com - id: 8906f8-ZDgyN
top 10 largest parameters test strips brands and get free ...
Color chart contrast how to use urinary test strips Application
Peace of mind after-sales rapid test kits Costco Application
Non-invasive where to buy urine test strips Factory price
Dry storage urine test strips Rexall Product Features
Multi-purpose rapid test kit sample Product Parameters
Non-invasive urine test strips for protein type
urine test strips alcohol Factory price Application
Peace of mind after-sales urine test strips chart checks for diseas
Moisture-proof urine test strips pharmacy NZ package
Nephritis test urine test strips interpretation
urine test strips explained Product Parameters manufacture
Highly sensitive how long does mephedrone stay in your urine Application
Sitemap | Color chart contrast urine test strips yeast infection checks for disease | Dry storage the ph of urine test strips checks for disease | how to read rapid test kit Application manufacture
Study Budget Tool streamlines research study setup | Clinical and Translational Science Institute - University of Minnesota
CTSI's Study Budget Tool is now available for use. The tool allows investigators and study teams working in Fairview and M Physicians facilities to propose various study scenarios in order to estimate their potential cost.
Streamlining study startup
The Study Budget Tool, developed by Health Sciences Technology, is designed for researchers and study team members who are interested in estimating the costs of study visits. The tool streamlines study budgeting by allowing researchers to estimate costs using different study parameters. It also allows researchers to determine if a study is financially feasible before spending resources on study start-up.
Researchers can adjust factors including the number of participants or visits, study arms, and study procedures to estimate study costs. They are also able to develop multiple scenarios for the same study to make comparisons between them. The available clinical procedures are associated with the order code used in Epic, the electronic health record system, and the procedure prices are drawn directly from OnCore's research chargemaster for accurate pricing and seamless integration of estimates into practice.
Once researchers have determined the visit schedule they want to move forward with, they can export the budget framework to easily share it with their accountant for inclusion in the grant application budget or export the visit calendar and include it with the study protocol as a part of the OnCore calendar request.
Accessing the Study Budget Tool
Investigators and study teams who plan to use the Fairview or M Physician facilities are able to access the Study Budget Tool using their x500 login credentials. The Study Budget Tool is one of several CTSI researcher resources created to streamline study design.
