How Good Cholesterol Turns Bad: New Evidence
by Sheela Philomena on February 24, 2012 at 8:24 AM Cholesterol News
A recent study provides evidence to explain how cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) mediates the conversation of cholesterol from 'good' HDLs to 'bad' LDLs.
The images and structural analyses support the hypothesis that cholesterol is transferred from high density lipoproteins (HDLs) to low density lipoproteins (LDLs) via a tunnel running through the center of the CETP molecule.
The results of this study have been reported in the journal Nature Chemical Biology.
<< Antipsychotic Drugs Increase Death Risk in Elderly Dementia...
Protecting Adolescent Teen Brain from Cocaine Effects >>
Study: Websites Advertising Cholesterol-Lowering Drugs of Poor Quality
Internet sites selling prescription statins directly to consumers are widespread, according to a new study published in the journal Pharmacoepidemiology &L Drug Safety .
Takeaway takes its toll: CCQ backs call for revised dietary target - Cancer Council Queensland
Home / News / Takeaway takes its toll: CCQ backs call for revised dietary target
Cancer Council Queensland is backing a call for the government to commit to an improvement in fast food dietary guidelines following the release of a Medical Journal of Australia study today.
The study* collected sodium data for over 300 Australian fast-food franchises over a period of four years and identified room for improvement.
Cancer Council Queensland spokesperson Kim Ryan said there was a need for a coordinated effort to improve the healthiness of foods in many large corporations.
"We know that up to one-third of all cancers are preventable with a combination of simple lifestyle changes – eating healthily and ensuring you stick to recommended portion sizes, along with following physical activity guidelines," Ms Ryan said.
"This study shows that we can be doing more to improve the quality of fast-foods to enhance the health of Australians. While there was some reduction in sodium content over the four year study period – it was insignificant.
"Cancer Council Queensland is calling for the government's Food and Health Dialogue to target fast food in a bid to deliver further falls in salt content in the short term."
The study identified salt reduction as one of the most cost-effective options for improving public health in Australia.
"It's vital that our government targets fast food in a bid to curb alarming overweight and obesity rates," Ms Ryan said.
"Over the past 16 years, we have seen obesity rates in this state double.
"If we are eating more unhealthy foods and moving less, we're likely to gain weight and increase our risk of a range of chronic diseases – including some cancers."
Cancer Council Queensland is committed to working with the Health Minister and Queensland Health to engage Queenslanders in healthy living programs, and welcomes funding for new public health initiatives.
"We want to see people reduce their risk of cancer, live healthier and boost their quality of life, and we acknowledge a multifaceted approach is needed to achieve this," Ms Ryan said.
More information about Cancer Council Queensland is available at www.cancerqld.org.au or via the Cancer Council Helpline 13 11 20.
Home > Type 1 Diabetes > Humalog (Insulin Lispro) Side Effects
Humalog (Insulin Lispro) Side Effects
Humalog is a diabetic medication which is administered through injections and it is the brand name version of insulin Lispro. Humalog Mix 75/25 and Mix 50/50 contain the following mixtures of insulin:
The drug is fast-acting insulin also known as meal time insulin and is taken immediately before a meal or after a meal; to be precise, This insulin is taken 15 minutes prior eating or right after a meal. This means it works quickly (15minues after taking it) than the other types of insulin. When you eat, blood glucose levels rise; this is when the pancreas produces more insulin to aid in offsetting and balancing the rising blood sugar levels. Nonetheless, if you have diabetes, the body does not release enough insulin naturally. The goal of Humalog is to take over the role of the natural insulin to keep the blood glucose levels within the recommended range after consuming a meal by:
Helping some tissues in your body to preserve glucose in their cells
Preventing the liver from releasing more glucose
Hindering the breakdown of proteins and fats
Helping to control the overall production as well as breakdown of sugar in your body
If the medical care provider prescribes this rapid-acting insulin, you will require a long-acting as well to aid in managing the blood sugar level during the night and between meals. Taking the combination of rapid-acting insulin and long-acting insulin can be beneficial in controlling glucose levels throughout the day. While on the medication, a patient will experience its side effects.
Alongside its wanted effects, some side effects of Humalog can be triggered by insulin lispro (it's the active substance contained in the Humalog Kwikpen). A side effect is an undesired response brought by a medication when taken in normal dose. The negative effects can be minor or severe, temporal or permanent. If anxious about the unwanted effects, discuss with the doctor the risk and the benefits of the drug, if the benefits outweigh the risks, it's worth taking the medicine. Bear in mind the medical care provider is aware of the negative effects and will advise accordingly in case they occur. People are different and so are the negative effects. Some patients may not experience the negative effects of Humalog Kwikpen, yet others will encounter a number of them.
Examples of the minor or mild side effects are:
Tender swollen glands on the neck
Itching, swelling, redness at the injected area
The good thing with the above less severe side effects of insulin Humalog is that they will clear without any medical attention. You will only face them for a number of days or a few weeks, as the body becomes used to the medication, they will go away. However, if the negative effects interfere with your daily activities by being bothersome or irritating, don't hesitate to contact the health care professional. Additionally, the physician may give tips on how to manage the negative effects before they clear.
The severe negative effects of this insulin need medical intervention since they can result in serious complications if not handled. If you experience any of the following serious or major unwanted effects, contact the physician immediately:
It occurs if the amount of blood glucose drops to a level that is extremely low to sustain the normal functioning of the body. In most patients, it's defined as blood glucose level below 70 mg/dl. A low blood glucose level is especially common if taking insulin such as Humalog and can result in short-term and long-term complications. Left untreated, it can cause a coma or even death. To curb hypoglycemia and its fatal unwanted effects, it's vital to monitor the blood sugar levels and treat it as soon as possible.
Below are telltale signs of dropping glucose levels:
Low Potassium (Hypokalemia) Levels
It refers to extremely low potassium levels than normal in the blood. Potassium is a chemical which is important for the proper functioning of the muscle cells, especially the heart muscle cells and nerves. The normal blood potassium level is between 3.6 to 5.2 millimoles per liter (mmol/L). An extremely low potassium level is below 2.5 mmol/L and is fatal, thus medical attention should be sought with immediate effect.
The symptoms of low potassium levels may include:
If you have existing allergies, it's advisable to inform the doctor. Furthermore, a serious allergic reaction may occur while on Humalog because of the active ingredient. The reaction may be moderate or severe, whichever the case, it's crucial to notify the health practitioner if faced with the following signs and symptoms of an allergic reaction:
Itching skin rash all over the body
Feeling like one may pass out
The physician may prescribe another medication if negative effects don't clear on their own or they turn out to be severe. The above is not a complete list of possible unwanted effects. If you detect unwanted effects not listed above, refer to the pharmacist or the doctor.
Our concierge medical practice is designed to provide a personal approach to healthcare to a very limited number of patients. These services will allow Dr. Linda Pao to address your specific health needs in a more personal and comprehensive way.
As a board certified physician, Dr Linda Pao, MD believes every patient has a choice. By providing patients with a tiered, medical service care option allows patients to make an educated decision as to the type of medical attention they may need.
Dr. Linda Pao understands the challenges in the medical community to obtain the quality medical care patients desire. Often times without a proactive health care navigator such as Dr. Linda Pao and her clinical team, many patients may become frustrated by the increasingly complex and impersonal health care system.
As your personal neurologist and health care advocate in the Jupiter, FL area, Dr. Linda Pao is genuinely interested in your overall well-being and will not only provide you the best care possible, but also coordinate your medical care with other excellent specialists throughout South Florida. Our neurological practice has designed a three tier approach so to help you decide as to the best type of care you may need tailored to your lifestyle.
As a Custom Concierge patient of Linda Pao, M.D. you will receive a number of benefits as indicated below.
Unlike traditional appointments, preferred members receive a comprehensive report and extensive one on one time with Linda Pao, M.D. The results of this including explanations of findings and recommendations individualized to insure your future good health.
Should hospitalization be required, Linda Pao, M.D. will work closely with your primary care physician or hospitalist. Linda Pao, M.D. will advocate with other medical personnel on your behalf helping you navigate through the healthcare system.
Whether you are in a memory care community, assisted living or short term skilled nursing and rehab center, Linda Pao, M.D. will be involved with your care on a case by case basis. This may include periodic site visits and case conferences with other care providers. She will be available to your family to address your concerns and provide counseling.
Our clinical team is committed to being your healthcare partner. Our goal is to help you navigate the health care system and help you understand chronic illness and treatment options. Your health care journey is our number one priority.
The wellness program will be developed for concierge patients to optimize their long term health and wellbeing. It addresses the full range of physical, emotional, mental, social, spiritual and environmental influences that affect a person’s health. It will take into consideration the patient’s unique conditions, needs and circumstances. It will employ the most appropriate interventions from an array of scientific disciplines to health illness and help people regain and maintain optimum health.
Linda Pao, M.D. and her clinical team will work with other healthcare partners to provide optimal health for your lifestyle. You will also receive one on one counseling and supportive services when deemed appropriate to help you understand your medical needs and preventative measures to maximize and sustain a quality life.
Annual fee includes an initial consultation with a Nutritionist, Physical Therapist, and Psychotherapist
The Elite Concierge Services option provides an additional level of services to the Client, includes all of the Custom Services and the Premiere Services, plus the following:
You will find that your concierge experience with Dr. Linda Pao is very unique, providing same day or next day appointments, direct 24/7 contact, and individual health plans.
Whether you are in need of a same day sick appointment or an extensive one on one office visit, the clinical team of Linda Pao, M.D., PA will certainly do our best to reasonably accommodate your request. It is best to schedule office visits during normal business hours when we have a full staff available to complement your needs.
Disinformation - GetWisdom.com
Is it true that HSV-1 infection of the brain can cause Alzheimer's disease, and that the symptoms can be reversed by eliminating the virus using the protocol devised by a doctor reachable via the Internet?
Is the photo described as "Israeli students" working with detonators on the 91st floor of the World Trade Center before Sept. 9, 2001, authentic and accurately described?
Can you tell us if there are such things as the Yaldaboath entity, with toplet plasma bombs, and plasma primary anomaly?
Closed Karen Gore asked 2 years ago • Disinformation
Is it true, as relayed by my client, that the Romanov family were not murdered, but rather escaped to England?
"New Head of Physiotherapy at Notre Dame" by Michelle Ebbs
Home > MEDIA_RELEASE > 498
New Head of Physiotherapy at Notre Dame
Summer 28-1-2005
The University of Notre Dame Australia is pleased to announce the appointment of Professor Peter Hamer as the Head of the School of Physiotherapy.
Professor Hamer has been a practising physiotherapist in Auckland, New Zealand, Brisbane and Perth. He was previously a lecturer in Clinical Anatomy and Biomechanics at The University of Western Australia and also held academic positions with Curtin University of Technology and Auckland University of Technology.
Professor Hamer completed his PHD investigating the relationship between the mechanics that cause and or prevent exercise induced muscle damage and the cellular and tissue level responses that accompany these processes. He has an interest in this area for both normal skeletal muscle as well as skeletal muscle affected by disease and pathological processes. This interested extends from Professor Hamer's interest in the incidence, causation and biomechanics of injury and disease of the musculoskeletal system.
Professor Hamer is a member of the Australian Physiotherapy Association, the International Society of Biomechanics, the Australian Association for Exercise & Sports Science and Sports Medicine Australia. He has served on the National Board of Sports Medicine Australia and is currently the President of the WA Branch. He attained status as a Fellow of The Australian Sports Medicine Federation in 1988 and was awarded the Australian Sports Medal in the year 2000 as part of the Australian Honours system in recognition of his contribution to Sports Medicine within Australia and in particular Western Australia.
Results 1951 to 1260 of 1260 Prev --
6 RN: Registered Nurse - Labor and Delivery (L&D) San Antonio, TX, USA QCI Healthcare is currently looking for an experienced L&D RN to work an assignment at Baptist Medical Center in San Antonio, TX. Job Summary: Labor and Delivery Registered Nurse (L&D RN) You will be ...... Apply Now>>
11 Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist - (CRNA) Locum Tenens El Paso, TX, USA About the Company Staff Care, an AMN Healthcare company, is the nation's leader in locum tenens staffing. We provide flexible, temporary employment options for physicians, clinicians, and other ...... Apply Now>>
12 RN-ICU - Travel Nursing: ICU Travel Nursing Position available in New Braunfels, TX Laredo, TX, USA RN's provide effective communication to patient/family, team members, and other healthcare professionals for all critical care patients. * Customized benefits package with the pay and insurance ...... Apply Now>>
13 RN/Home Health Fort Worth, TX, USA Fort Worth , TX Coastal Healthcare Resources, Inc. is looking for qualified candidates for an assignment in Fort Worth , TX . This assignment requires a minimum of 2 years of recent experience... Apply Now>>
14 RN/RN - Home Health, Fort Worth, TX Fort Worth, TX, USA Pulse Healthcare is currently seeking Travel Nurses for multiple positions in locations throughout the United States! Start Date: 19-Jun-18 Duration: 91 days City: Fort Worth State: TX Degree: LVN ...... Apply Now>>
17 Travel RN - Registered Nurse: ER Longview, TX, USA What makes Go Healthcare Staffing Different? From the first conversation with your Go Recruiter to your last day of your assignment, you can tell we are a different travel nurse company. Simply put ...... Apply Now>>
18 LRS Healthcare is seeking for RN/RN-ED - Emergency Department Longview, TX, USA For well over a decade, LRS Healthcare has been an industry leader in Nursing staffing. In partnering with many of the nation's largest and most prestigious healthcare facilities, as well as small ...... Apply Now>>
19 MNA Healthcare Neurology, Telemetry Med / Surg, Telemetry Nurse RN position in , TX TX, USA MNA Healthcare is currently selecting a(n) Neurology, Telemetry Med / Surg, Telemetry Nurse RN for a 13-week assignment at our Top Rated Facility in , TX. This opportunity is offering a competitive ...... Apply Now>>
20 Registered Nurse - Rehab Job in Abilene, TX Abilene, TX, USA Join the ranks of our rapidly growing team of healthcare professionals, and become that difference! Do you remember why you became a RN, at GIFTED? We do... Apply Now>>
21 Registered Nurse - Tele Job in Abilene, TX Abilene, TX, USA Telemetry RNs consult with health care team members to assess, plan, implement and evaluate patient care plans * Tele RNs often utilize machines that measure a patient's heart rate, blood pressure ...... Apply Now>>
23 Travel Registered Nurse - Med Surg Arlington, TX, USA Supplemental Health Care is partnering with our hospital client in Arlington, TX to provide a travel Med Surg Registered Nurse for a long term contract. The ideal RN will have med surg experience... Apply Now>>
24 Travel OR RN - Operating Room Registered Nurse El Paso, TX, USA Supplemental Health Care is an industry-leading healthcare placement agency partnering with a hospital in El Paso, Texas to provide an experienced Operating Room RN traveler. This Registered Nurse is ...... Apply Now>>
25 Emergency Room Travel RN: Longview, TX Longview, TX, USA Tailored Healthcare Staffing is seeking a qualifiedEmergency Room Travel RN for the following assignment: * Estimated Start Date: ASAP * Location: Longview, TX * Shift: Days * Hours Per Week: 36... Apply Now>>
26 Emergency Room Travel RN: San Angelo, TX San Angelo, TX, USA Tailored Healthcare Staffing is seeking a qualifiedEmergency Room Travel RN for the following assignment: * Estimated Start Date: 5/19/2018 * Location: San Angelo, TX * Shift: See "Job Details... Apply Now>>
28 Travel RN, TX , ASAP Carlsbad, TX, USA Are you ready to travel to your next assignment? Vital Healthcare Staffing is seeking a LTC nurse for a travel assignment in Carlsbad, TX ASAP! . With our caring team of experienced professionals ...... Apply Now>>
32 Registered Nurse | RN | TEL (Contract) Abilene, USA Outstanding benefits with YOU in mind! • Favorite is the Exclusive Provider at Many Facilities Across the US • Direct Deposit and Weekly Pay • First Day Health Insurance • 401(k) Retirement ...... Apply Now>>
33 Registered Nurse | RN | CM (Contract) Houston, USA Outstanding benefits with YOU in mind! • Favorite is the Exclusive Provider at Many Facilities Across the US • Direct Deposit and Weekly Pay • First Day Health Insurance • 401(k) Retirement ...... Apply Now>>
35 Operating Room Nurse - RN ... care unit, imaging, pharmacy and lab services... Apply Now>>
37 Field Registered Nurse The Woodlands, TX, USA Two years experience as a Registered Nurse in a clinical care setting preferred, home health preferred. Skills: Nursing skills as defined as generally accepted standards of practice. Good ...... Apply Now>>
38 Nurse-LPN-LVN - Healthcare Pearland, TX, USA Brookdale Healthcare Services is looking for a Hospice LPN to provide services in the Pearland area. Join a dynamic team of health care providers focused on support and comfort for all our patients... Apply Now>>
39 Clinical Sales Liaison Kindred Hospital Texoma / Mount Pleasant Dallas, United States Kindred Healthcare, ranked as one of Fortune magazineâs Most Admired Healthcare Companies for seven years, is the nationâs largest provider of post-acute care, enabling us to meet the health and ...... Apply Now>>
GUIDE TO CLUBFOOT - PhysioFlow
Welcome to Physioflow Physical Therapy's resource about Clubfoot.
Clubfoot is a congenital condition that affects newborn infants. The medical term for clubfoot is Congenital Talipes Equinovarus. This condition has been described in medical literature since the ancient Egyptians. Congenital means that the condition is present at birth and occurred during fetal development. The condition is not rare and the incidence varies widely among different races. In the Caucasian population, about one in a thousand infants are born with a clubfoot. In Japan, the numbers are one in two thousand and in some races in the South Pacific it can be as high as seven infants in one thousand who are born with a clubfoot. The condition affects both feet in about half of the infants born with clubfoot. Clubfoot affects twice as many males as females.
The tarsal bones are the seven bones that make up the heel and the midfoot. The metatarsals and the phalanges are connected to the tarsals and form the forefoot. Clubfoot primarily affects three bones: the calcaneus, talus and navicular. The deformity can affect the growth of the entire foot to some degree so other bones may be involved as well.
The clubfoot is unmistakable. The foot is turned under and towards the other foot. The medical terminology for this position is equinus and varus. Equinus means that the toes are pointed down and the ankle flexed forward (sort of like the position of the foot when a ballet dancer is on her toes). Varus means tilted inward. The ankle is in varus position when you try to put the soles of your feet together.
This twisted position of the foot causes several problems in the foot. The ligaments, which are the connecting tissue between the bones, are contracted, or shortened and the joints between the tarsal bones do not move, as they should. The bones themselves are deformed. This results in a very tight stiff foot that cannot be placed flat on the ground for walking. To walk, the child must walk on the outside edge of the foot rather than on the sole of the foot.
One interesting finding is that the calf muscles on the leg with the clubfoot are smaller than normal. If the clubfoot only affects one foot, the calf muscles on this leg will always remain smaller than the opposite side.
During the nine months of pregnancy, the fetus undergoes remarkable changes. In the skeleton, these changes include the separation of each individual bone in the body from one mass of bone material. In some cases, this process is flawed. A clubfoot occurs when this failure of separation occurs in the tarsal bones of the foot.
Until recently, most experts believed that the clubfoot deformity was due to the foot being stuck in the wrong position in the womb. As development progressed, the foot could not grow normally because it was turned under and held in that position. Today, most information suggests that clubfoot is hereditary, meaning that it runs in families. It is not clear what genetic defect causes the problem. It is not known yet whether the defect affects the development of the muscles, blood vessels, or bones of the foot.
The foot is an incredibly complex structure. For the foot to grow and develop correctly, all of the bones of the foot must move normally in relationship to each other. If the movement between two bones is abnormal, or non-existent, that changes how the bones grow after birth. If untreated, over time this leads to further deformity in the foot.
The condition in itself is not painful to the child. The primary problem of a clubfoot is that the foot cannot be placed flat on the ground so that the child can walk on the sole of the foot. In developing countries where there is sometimes no treatment for conditions such as this, adults with a clubfoot walk on the side of their foot. They do not walk normally and this may cause pain. Due to this abnormal force on the side of the foot the foot is extremely deformed with calluses where it contacts the ground. Footwear is very difficult to fit and usually must be custom-made, as normal shoes will not fit. Eventually the abnormality can lead to wear and tear arthritis in the joints of the foot, pain, and decreased ability to walk.
The history and physical examination make the diagnosis of clubfoot. The appearance alone is usually enough to determine that a clubfoot is present. A complete examination of the newborn with a clubfoot is critical since there are other genetic conditions that are associated with clubfeet. Your pediatrician will perform a complete evaluation to make sure there are no other congenital conditions to be concerned with.
A clubfoot can be diagnosed before birth using ultrasound. Many women have routine ultrasound tests to assess the status of the pregnancy. There is currently no treatment available before birth if a clubfoot should be found. Being that clubfoot is associated with other serious congenital and genetic abnormalities, the obstetrician may recommend amniocentesis to look for genetic problems in the fetus if a clubfoot is present. An amniocentesis is a test where a needle is inserted into the uterus and a small amount of fluid removed. This fluid is sent to the lab for analysis. If evidence for serious genetic or congenital anomalies is found, then the option of terminating the pregnancy exists.
X-rays are helpful in determining the severity of the condition. This information may become important later in trying to decide what treatment is best to recommend. Usually, no other imaging studies are needed.
Treatment for clubfoot usually begins at birth. Treatment in the majority of infants will require both non-surgical treatment and surgery. The foot will never be normal, but treatment can provide a very functional foot that can be used for walking without pain.
The most commonly used non-surgical treatment in the newborn and infant is manipulation and casting. This is started as soon as possible. The foot is manipulated to stretch and loosen the tight structures. The foot is then placed in a cast to hold it in a corrected position. This is repeated every one or two weeks until the deformity is corrected or surgery is performed.
As any parent knows, the newborn grows rapidly after birth. The technique of manipulation and casting the foot is used to guide the growth of the foot towards the normal alignment. Without this guidance, the foot will remain deformed and may actually get worse. The greatest chance for correction of deformity occurs early in life when there is so much growth occurring.
There have been many different techniques proposed for the way the foot is manipulated and the way the casts are applied. Treatment of the infant with clubfoot is definitely one of the arts of medicine. Successful treatment requires patience and attention to detail.
The success of treatment of clubfoot by manipulation and casting alone varies greatly. The majority of infants will eventually require surgery but the manipulation and casting begins the process of guiding the foot towards a more normal form. In the infant that eventually needs surgery, the manipulation and casting are still required to obtain as much correction as possible prior to the surgery.
When it is clear that manipulation and casting alone will not result in success, your surgeon will recommend surgery. The main question is when to perform the surgery. The earlier the surgery is performed, the more growth that remains in the foot. The more growth remaining, the more the deformity can be corrected. The downside is that a smaller foot is much harder to effectively operate on and the risk of damage to the nerves, blood vessels, and bones is much higher.
Most surgeons recommend waiting until the foot is about eight centimeters (three inches) long. This usually occurs when the infant is about nine months old. Most surgeons agree that it is ideal to have the surgery over and healed before the infant starts to try and walk. Surgery performed at nine months will usually accomplish this goal.
The surgical procedure to correct clubfoot is tedious and complex, but the goals are always the same. Your surgeon will find and cut all the ligaments that are too tight. When they are cut, they eventually heal back with scar tissue. In the growing infant, this scar tissue will grow back to form new ligaments that are not so tight.
Once the ligaments have been loosened, your surgeon can align the bones of the foot as normal as possible. Metal pins are commonly used to hold the bones in the proper alignment. These metals pins stick out through the skin and are removed three to six weeks after the surgery is completed.
After surgery for clubfoot, a large bandage is applied to the foot. Some type of cast or brace may also be used. The child will probably need to wear some type of brace for several months, and maybe even years after the surgery, but ideally, the treatment should not interfere with the normal developmental milestones. Once the surgery is over, Mother Nature takes over. Weight bearing will help guide the growth in the foot towards a more functional orientation where the sole of the foot can be placed flat on the floor. Physical Therapy at Physioflow Physical Therapy can be very helpful as well in improving the functional use of the foot.
What should be expected from treatment?
Physiotherapy at Physioflow Physical Therapy after surgery for a clubfoot can begin as soon as your child's surgeon recommends it. All treatment, either surgical or non-surgical including Physical Therapy, is designed to give the child a foot that can be placed flat on the floor. Another goal of therapy at Physioflow Physical Therapy is to assist your child's walking biomechanics in order to encourage your child to walk as efficiently as possible. Lastly, our goals also include relieving any pain if present, preventing pain in the future, maintaining the flexibility of your child's muscles and tissues, and preventing any weaknesses around the lower extremities and core from developing.
During your first appointment at Physioflow Physical Therapy your Physical Therapist will discuss your child's foot brace with you and ensure that you are confident putting it on and taking it off. Your doctor will set the specifications of the brace according to your child's needs. Your doctor will inform you which activities are safe while in the brace and which ones should be avoided. Your child must learn that he/she can kick and swing the legs simultaneously with the brace on. If your child is still young, your Physical Therapist can help you learn how to hold and handle your child with their brace on. If your child is old enough, they should be encouraged to be part of the routine of putting the brace on and taking it off. General bracing advice, such as the best types of socks and clothing garments to wear with the brace as well as proper strapping or lacing of the brace will also be discussed.
Your Physical Therapist will also inspect your child's bare feet and note any areas of the brace that may be irritating your child. Generally your child will need to build up a tolerance to wearing the brace and for this reason some areas where pressure is noted by redness may be considered normal. Any areas of redness, however, should be closely monitored and padded for extra comfort and to disperse the pressure if necessary.
Creams or lotions should not be applied to areas where the skin is red (and unbroken) as this can make the friction worse. Areas that have developed blisters will need to be protected to avoid them getting worse or breaking open. Any broken or fragile skin can become a more serious problem and prevent the braces from being worn for a prolonged period of time, which can result in a relapse of the clubfoot position. In some cases a return visit to your doctor or Orthotist for an early adjustment of the brace may be necessary.
The schedule of how long your child will have to wear the brace each day will be set by your child's surgeon. At first the time with the brace on will likely need to be most of the day and night. Generally the wearing time is gradually decreased over time so that your child has some awake time without the brace on. In most cases children will need to wear the brace during all sleep times until eventually sleep time is the only time the child is required to wear the brace. Depending on the age of your child, once the brace is discarded during the day, your Physical Therapist may incorporate taping techniques of the foot to provide gentle foot positioning guidance.
Your Physical Therapist may address any pain issues that your child may be experiencing from the surgical procedure or the deformity itself, depending on the age of your child. Your Physical Therapist may use modalities such as ice, heat or massage to try to relieve any pain. In some cases they may even use ultrasound, again depending on your child's age and the location of their pain.
Maintaining the length of the tissues in your child's foot is the main goal of any stretching exercises we do with your child or ask you to do with them. Your child's age at the time of surgery will largely influence how formal the stretches and strengthening exercises for your child will be. If they are old enough to understand and follow along, your Physical Therapist may encourage specific stretches for the back of the calf and Achilles tendon, as well as for the bottom of the foot. Often, however, children who have had surgery for clubfoot are too young to effectively engage in formal stretches therefore play activities that encourage these types of stretches will be taught. Ensuring that your child spends time squatting, standing with feet flat, standing on their toes, standing on their heels, walking without the brace, and practicing jumping are ways to encourage proper foot movement. Your Physical Therapist will guide you through which of the activities are most important for your child at which time, the proper technique for these activities, and how long they should be performing each activity. While at Physioflow Physical Therapy you will be taught by your therapist how to apply pressure properly to your child's foot or leg during these activities in order to encourage normal foot alignment. If your child is too young to walk or do the higher level activities then your Physical Therapist will teach you age-appropriate play activities that encourage the proper positioning of your child's foot and lower leg. Range of movement exercises that encourage motion of the foot in all directions away from the clubfoot position will be important. Of particular importance are passive Achilles tendon stretches, which will be taught to you and will be encouraged frequently. The Achilles tendon is the thick tendon at the back of the ankle.
Maintaining the length of the Achilles tendon after casting and surgery to lengthen it prepares the foot and ankle to take the body's weight for activities such as walking, squatting, and jumping. It should be noted how important it is to maximize use of the time that your child spends outside of the brace by doing the specified activities that your Physical Therapist prescribes as this will train the muscles to hold your child's new foot position and give the other tissues as much active stretching as possible.
Formal strengthening exercises for older children will be taught which encourage ankle, calf, hip, and core strengthening as well strengthening for the muscles that pull the foot into a position where the sole of the foot is turned up and out (opposite to the clubbed foot position.) As previously mentioned often the child who has had surgery for clubfeet is too young to perform any formal exercises. Playing is once again the best method to encourage strength development in your child's feet, legs and core area.
Your Physical Therapist will encourage fun play activities and games such as assisted frog jumps or hops on one leg in order to strengthen the appropriate muscles. Even helping the young child mimic these types of activities can be very useful to strengthen the legs and feet and encourage proper foot position. Any activity they enjoy which encourages the proper motion is useful! Often singing while doing activities or making a game of the exercises is the best method of incorporating rehabilitation into your young child's world.
For those children that are old enough to ambulate, gait retraining when the brace is off is a crucial part of our rehabilitation at Physioflow Physical Therapy after surgery for clubfeet. By using hands on techniques your therapist will encourage the appropriate motions for your child while they walk and they will teach you how to do the same for when you do the exercises at home. Your Physical Therapist will also work on your child's foot and ankle proprioception (knowing where their foot is in space without them having to look at it) by having them stand or walk on different surfaces such as a soft mat or foam, as well as on different angles. Activities such as hopping or climbing on apparatus will also help to improve their proprioception. Climbing up onto things such as stairs or gym equipment simultaneously helps to build the needed strength in the hip area, which is an important area that assists in controlling the knee and foot position. For children who are not yet walking, holding them in the standing position (with proper foot alignment) on different surfaces as well as on different angles will accomplish the same thing. Most importantly, for all exercises, the goal is to get the foot into a proper weight bearing position and keep it out of the clubbed foot position.
Your therapist will be a useful resource for discussing footwear modifications for your child if needed. They may consult with a Podiatrist to ensure that the most appropriate footwear is prescribed for you child.
As your child grows, rehabilitation will need to be continued but the frequency of sessions should decrease as long as early intervention has started your child on the right path to correcting the alignment of your child's foot, ankle, and lower limb, and as long as you are actively doing the home rehabilitation program. As your child grows and becomes more mature, Physical Therapy at Physioflow Physical Therapy will include more formal types of exercises to encourage proper foot alignment. It is expected that your child will eventually be able to partake in all physical activities that other children their age partake in.
Generally children who have had surgery for clubfeet do extremely well with the Physical Therapy we provide at Physioflow Physical Therapy. Over the course of your child's therapy your therapist will liaise closely with your child's doctor, surgeon, Orthotist, and Podiatrist as well as any other health care professionals that are involved in their care to ensure your child is recovering as quickly and normally as possible.
As with any treatment, complications can result from both conservative and surgical treatment of clubfoot. Failure of manipulation and casting to result in a successful outcome is not a complication. The majority of patients will not be treated successfully with non-surgical treatment alone.
Several complications are possible both during and after surgery. Wound problems may occur after surgery due to abnormal swelling or pressure from the cast. When the foot is markedly deformed, correction of the deformity may stretch the skin so tight that the blood supply is compromised. This may result in a small section of the skin actually dying. This normally heals with time and only rarely does this require a skin graft.
Infection can occur following any type of surgery. A wound infection can occur after clubfoot surgery. This may require additional surgery to drain the infection and antibiotics to treat the infection.
The infant foot is very small. The structures are very difficult to see even using magnifying glasses. Blood vessels and nerves may be damaged or cut during the operation. The bones of the infant foot are mostly made of cartilage. This material can be damaged, resulting in deformities of these bones. This damage usually corrects itself with growth.
Up to half of all patients undergoing clubfoot surgery will require at least one additional surgical procedure later in life.
Facebook AI Research (FAIR) and NYU School of Medicine's Center for Advanced Imaging Innovation and Research (CAI²R) are sharing new open source tools and data as part of fastMRI, a joint research project to spur development of AI systems to speed MRI scans by up to 10x. Today's releases include new AI models and baselines for this task (as described in our paper here). It also includes the first large-scale MRI dataset of its kind, which can serve as a benchmark for future research.
"We are excited that our preliminary work with acceleration factors up to four has shown interchangeability with conventional images. We hope that the release of this landmark dataset, the largest-ever collection of fully sampled MRI raw data, will provide researchers with the tools necessary to achieve even greater acceleration factors," says Michael P. Recht, M.D., Chair and the Louis Marx Professor of Radiology at NYU Langone Health.
One of the challenges facing the new research field of MR reconstruction is consistency, with teams using a variety of different datasets to train their AI systems. By releasing the largest open source database of MR data designed to tackle the problem of MR image reconstruction, NYU School of Medicine, a part of NYU Langone Health, hopes to provide an industry-wide and benchmark-ready dataset. Just as the introduction of the widely used ImageNet dataset advanced the state of computer vision research, the fastMRI dataset could help organize and accelerate work related to MR reconstruction. This initial release includes approximately 1.5 million MR images drawn from 10,000 scans, as well as raw measurement data from nearly 1,600 scans. Like all the data used or released by the fastMRI project, this dataset was gathered as part of a study approved by NYU Langone's Internal Review Board. NYU fully anonymized the dataset, including metadata and image content manually, inspecting each and every Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) image for unexpected protected health information.
The raw measurement data in this dataset sets it apart from previous MR databases and could prove particularly valuable for researchers. It consists of the k-space data that's collected during scanning and typically discarded after it's used to generate images. Instead, by retaining a large amount of raw k-space measurements and sharing them in an open source dataset, NYU School of Medicine is providing researchers with unprecedented access to data for the purposes of training models, validating their performance, and generally simulating how image reconstruction techniques would be used in real-world conditions. The fastMRI dataset also includes undersampled versions of those measurements, with k-space lines retrospectively masked, to simulate partial-data scans.
The k-space data in this dataset is drawn from MR devices with multiple magnetic coils, and it also includes data that simulates measurements from single-coil machines. Though research related to accelerating multi-coil scans is more relevant for clinical practice — they're more precise and more common than single-coil scans — the inclusion of single-coil k-space data measurements offers AI researchers an entry point for applying ML to this imaging task.
For additional information about the fastMRI dataset and to request access, visit fastmri.med.nyu.edu.
In both the single-coil and multi-coil deep learning baselines, our models are based on u-nets, a convolutional network architecture that was developed specifically for image segmentation in biomedical applications and that has a proven track record with image-to-image prediction. Our initial work has indicated that the u-net architecture is particularly responsive to training on a large amount of data, such as the MR reconstruction dataset released by NYU School of Medicine.
To ensure the consistent measurement of progress within this field, FAIR has created a leaderboard for MR reconstruction results. We've added our baseline models to start, and other researchers will add improved results as they begin generating and submitting results to conferences and journals using the fastMRI dataset. More than a competition, this leaderboard will allow the larger community of researchers to evaluate their results against consistent metrics and to see how different approaches compare. For more information about the leaderboard, and to submit results, visit fastMRI.org.
Though its open source database is already larger than previous datasets released for MR reconstruction, NYU School of Medicine plans to release additional images and measurements in the near future, related to brain and liver scans (the current dataset consists of knee scans). In addition, in the future FAIR and NYU School of Medicine plan to launch a reconstruction challenge, with participants producing results within a limited time frame (as opposed to the fastMRI leaderboard, where results will be posted on an ongoing basis). Winners of the challenge will be invited to present and share their work at a conference workshop. We'll announce more details, including challenge timing and conference involvement in the coming months.
How Pharmacists can help you? - WTX News
Use your pharmacist to get the best health service in the UK
Whether you're picking up a pack of plasters or some pain relief for a headache. The British community relies on our local pharmacies and trusts the institution entirely. Yet many people still do not use Pharmacists to their true potential. It is so much more than a dispensary and often Pharmacists can play a vital role in the community.
The nation's independent community pharmacies dispense about 40 percent of all retail prescriptions. These small businesses employ 315,000 people, including some 63,000 pharmacists. As community pillars, they contribute greatly to their local economy and tax base. They also dispense a greater percentage of cost-saving generic drugs than some other pharmacy providers, like mail order.
A pharmacist is trained to help you take your medicines in a safe way and get the most benefit from them. It's his or her job to review your prescription and make sure you get exactly the medication that your health care provider asked for. They also give you and other health care providers (like your doctor and nurse practitioner) information on medications and over-the-counter drugs and crucially help you understand all of your medications.
A pharmacist can not write a prescription for a medication in the UK. Pharmacists are experts in medications and can provide your health care provider and you all the information needed on medications to improve your health. But they are not authorised to provide any medication that the doctor has not prescribed, apart form Over the counter drugs.
How can a pharmacist protect you?
One of the most important things a pharmacist does is to make sure that you take your medication the right way. They also manage the timely delivery of your medicines, repeat prescriptions especially, for this who are need of care.
For those who struggle to make it to the pharmacy on time and the elderly, you can use their local delivery service to get your medication delivered without any hassle. just instruct your doctor and your pharmacist will take of the rest. Many online pharmacies specialise in this and it is often a free service.
The key aspect to all this is obviously, ensuring they make the service simple and easy for all to use. These services are all part of a Pharmacists training and make the difference in your everyday health care.
