A few more months for a six figure sum, the ethics of cancer medications – Hyderus
Risk Perception and Crisis Management
Development and Politics
Knowledge Transfer and Capacity Building
Media Trends Report 2021
n1ckp4rry April 17, 2017
A few more months for a six figure sum, the ethics of cancer medications
Trump to remove critical funds from the CDC?
The Human Development Index, what makes a country great?
Some cancer medications cost too much for too little benefit, suggests a study published last year in the British Medical Journal.
The study indicates that many chemotherapeutic drugs are only shown to increase life expectancy in those with stage IV (metastatic) cancer by a few months. Yet these treatments can incur costs as high as six figures. This applies to medications that have been widely used for many years, as well as a number of recently developed, and often more expensive, chemotherapy drugs.
Studies indicate that the number of deaths due to cancer have declined in the last few decades. However, this is largely due to developments leading to early detection and treatment. Many types of cancer are widely treatable in their early stages. Should a tumour be detected in its early stages it may be removed through surgery entirely. The risk of remission can be reduced through the use of radiotherapy, chemotherapy and, now, immunotherapy. Cancer becomes a much more threatening prospect once it is metastasized.
Metastatic cancer is described as being the stage of cancer in which the
initial tumour is no longer a solid mass. Instead cancerous cells from the initial tumour site break away, travelling through either the bloodstream or the lymph vessels to other locations in the body. In the bloodstream, these tumour cells have access to the entire body. Some may settle in other areas or organs of the body, forming new tumours.
This presents further complications to the treatment, surgery may be an option to remove the initial tumour, but the location of new tumours is highly variable, capable of being almost anywhere in the body, and affecting any organ. Due to the process by which they move from the bloodstream, avoid immune detection and begin replicating again, the tumour cells may not be identical to those in the original tumour, further complicating treatment.
In metastatic cancer chemotherapy is the standard treatment. It is at this point that the chemotherapeutic drugs are utilised. The survival rate for those with metastatic cancer is usually very low, though varies depending on the initial cancer type. In metastatic breast cancer for example, the five year survival rate for stage four (metastatic) breast cancer is as low as 22 percent. By comparison, stage three (pre-metastatic) breast cancer has a survival rate of 72 percent. During the initial stages of cancer, stage two survival rate is 90 percent.
On the other end of the spectrum for survival, stage 4 testicular cancer can show a survival rate as high as 80 percent. Though this can vary widely, and is largely dependent on where the cancer has spread.
Despite the usage of these highly expensive chemotherapeutic drugs the survival rate may still be very low. Those in the advanced stages of cancer are often beyond the scope of medicine to expect a cure, and realistically the focus of treatment shifts to symptom management to extend life or to make the time left more comfortable.
Many of the drugs developed in the last two decades have come under scrutiny by researc
hers. Many "offered patients only marginal benefits, with no evidence that they improve survival or quality of life" says Dr. Vinay Prasad, assistant professor of medicine at the Oregon Health and Sciences University. Dr Prasad has written extensively on the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) approval process. According to Dr Prasad two thirds of recently approved chemotherapeutic drugs have no beneficial effects at all.
The author of the BMJ study, Peter Wise, is equally critical. As a former consultant physician, Peter Wise believes it is inappropriate to advise a patient to be spending a six figure sum on a medication that may marginally extend life expectancy when they will "almost inevitably die" from the cancer. Patients are often said to have "unrealistic expectations" of the chemotherapy. Wise thinks that the patient may make an assumption that a medication this expensive would have a positive outcome.
Some treatments may increase life expectancy further than the average of 2.1 months found for 48 medications approved by the FDA between 2002 and 2014. It was found in a study published in Health Affairs that some medications, at an additional treatment cost of $72,000 USD life expectancy could potentially be prolonged an extra thirteen months. The study however mentions that it cannot be ruled out that the extensions to survival were due to additional treatments provided as well as these chemotherapeutic drugs. Since the use of these drugs wa
s not the only variable, to attribute the survival solely to a drug costing $72,000 is misleading.
The study itself even attributes some of the improvements to more advanced imaging techniques, then dismisses this in favour of the medication.The study may be biased towards approving the expensive medications, as it is noted that a number of treatment methods were used. Some patients also received radiotherapy, though it is not noted whether these patients were the medicated group or the negative control group..
What is certain is that a large number of chemotherapeutic medications are being approved by the FDA, many without any evidence of an improval of survival rates at all. Some add an average of 2.1 months to life expectancy. John Conley, MD, former President of the American Society for Head and Neck Surgery suggests the FDA is lowering the efficacy bar, rolling out consecutive medications with marginal benefits, while doing so driving up the costs of cancer treatment to a concerning level.
Peter Wise suggests that focus should be redirected from premature media hype over the latest in a series of marginally beneficial treatments to prevention and early stage detection, as well as treatments that have been shown to have considerable benefits.
Immunotherapy for example, using drugs which provoke the immune system of the patient to attack tumour cells in the same manner it would attack invading bacteria or a virus. An accurate comparison would be to compare immunotherapy drugs to a vaccine, whereas chemotherapy uses chemicals to reduce growth and replication.
This kind of treatment has shown to have a large degree of success in patients with metastatic cancer, though comes with associated risks. The body may attack healthy cells in the process, this has been documented to cause damage to organs, occasionally resulting in diseases such as diabetes. Immunotherapy drugs are a recent invention, and negative aspects such as this may in the future be limited.
Using several drugs at once has also been shown to be a more successful treatment method, this is referred to as combination therapy. The concept behind the treatment is to avoid drug resistance in the cancer, which often results in a recurrence of the tumour. Often singular cells that survive the initial treatment, and the resultant favourable growth conditions due to absence of competing tumour cells, causes the cancer to return. By using several drugs in combination, this situation may be avoided.
As the BMJ study mentions, the media is often on the lookout for huge breakthroughs, and will find one where none exist. Headlines using buzz words like "groundbreaking" and "miracle" do little to help this when in reality cancer is a long way from being cured. The efficacy bar needs to be raised, and both funding and attention need to be aimed at therapies producing results.
n1ckp4rry
Tags cancer research
Hyderus has its headquarters in Ireland
Y35 A6C5
info@hyderus.com
+353 53 901 1890
Hyderus is announced as Best Specialist Healthcare Communications Consultancy in Europe 2021 https://t.co/mgNoGTZ2KY
RT @bairdscmc: "What annoys me in the pharma industry is mystery, also inability to break down simple information to the masses." said an A…
RT @bairdscmc: "Big pharma will soon begin to make deals with African governments. It's just not clear the nature of those deals but we sha…
Dr. Wendell Moore & Chief Kevin Kalakay Elected to NSF Council of Public Health Consultants | WQP
NSF International press release
Dr. Wendell Moore & Chief Kevin Kalakay Elected to NSF Council of Public Health Consultants
Moore and Kalakay join more than 35 other public health and safety professionals overseeing NSF standards
The NSF International Council of Public Health Consultants (CPHC) has elected Colonel (retired) Wendell Moore, representing the American Academy of Sanitarians and currently serving with the U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs (VA), and Kevin Kalakay, chief mechanical & plumbing inspector for the state of Michigan, to three-year terms.
The NSF CPHC is an independent council responsible for overseeing and ratifying NSF International's consensus national standards.
Colonel (retired) Wendell Moore, M.S., Ed.D
Dr. Moore has more than 30 years of experience developing and executing national and international preventive medicine, public health and safety programs for the U.S. Department of Defense. After a distinguished career in the United States Army, he retired as a colonel in 2012 and currently serves as a senior health analyst with the Office of the Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health Policy and Planning at the U.S. Veterans Health Administration (VHA).
In this role, he provides planning and analytical consultation, including strategic planning and health care planning development activities for Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs) and program offices.
Kevin Kalakay is the Chief Mechanical Inspector for the state of Michigan, overseeing mechanical inspections of construction projects and mechanical installations in the state.
He is responsible for application and enforcement of the Michigan Mechanical and Michigan Residential Codes and the Skilled Trades Regulation Act as well as providing technical and procedural expertise to contractors, building owners, homeowners, architects, engineers, local code officials, legislators and the public. He has extensive experience in code and standard writing, implementation and enforcement.
For more information, interview requests and photos, please contact Thomas Frey, APR, at [email protected] or call +1 734.214.6242.
Dawson / Nethercliffe | ABC of Urology | 2012
Dawson / Nethercliffe
wiley. ISBN 978-0-470-65717-1
Urological conditions are prevalent and account for up to one third of all surgical admissions to hospital. Outside of hospital care urological problems are a common reason for patients needing to see their general practitioner. Urological malignancy is increasingly important within an ageing population. The ABC of Urology provides a comprehensive review of current practice in urology and is a structured and practical guide to the diagnosis, treatment and management of the most common urological conditions. This new third edition has been fully revised and expanded with additional chapters and improved coverage of renal and testis cancer, management of haematuria, laparoscopy, trauma and new urological advances. Prostate, bladder, renal and penile cancers are also covered in detail and new techniques and procedures for safer and effective treatment options are featured. The ABC of Urology is the ideal reference for general practitioners and general practitioner trainees, junior doctors and practice nurses, medical students and all primary health care professionals working to provide the best possible care for patients with urological conditions.
Tania is a Holistic Nutrition Practitioner specializing in women with Long-term health issues and challenges. I enjoy working with individuals to help them achieve their best health. My practice focuses on helping people heal and educating them as well as empowering them to take charge of their own health. My job is to guide you through your own health journey and to support you and give you the information you need to succeed. This includes working towards healing your health conditions and optimizing your health so you feel your absolute best. Prevention plays a huge role in maximizing your health. The belief that we are all biochemically unique is at the center of Tania’s practice. The goal is to find out what works for you and your body. The treatment plan we come up with together is specific to you and to your body’s needs. Tania believes that food is, in fact, medicine and it should be enjoyed to the fullest! ​
How Can I Help You?
I provide education and resources for you to achieve your goals as part of your personalized nutrition counseling plan. We'll look at your diet and lifestyle and make changes as needed to help you feel your best.
​Reviews of Tania's Work
"Tania has a wealth of information about nutrition, and shares it in a friendly, approachable way. She is a great listener and communicator, and creates a supportive and enjoyable environment for her clients and groups". -Kaylinn B.
"Tania is very easy to talk to and connect with. She takes lots of time to listen. The detail she went into about Dietary solutions was in depth yet still understandable and I walked away with all of the info on paper to refer back to as needed. I loved the recipes and creative suggestions offered to keep it simple in my everyday life. Also very encouraging with her positivity and knowledge. I really like the package deals so that you can get so much info in return visits for one price!" -Schey D.
"I worked with Tania to find out if I had more inflammation with gluten in my diet. She did a great analysis of my issues and made some recommendations that I am following. My digestion is much better with probiotics and my joints have improved with fish oil. These are examples of the changes I have made for better quality of life. Thanks, Tania!" -Ann S.
Primary health care starts at the hospital door - Healthcanal.com : Healthcanal.com
12:07am Monday 21 October 2019
According to project lead, Associate Professor Yun-Hee Jeon from Sydney Nursing School, "This project is unique in its approach to instilling the notion that primary health care begins at the hospital door. For acute care nurses this is where they first meet their patients but not where health care ends.
Dr Elizabeth Harford from MLHD who instigated the project said, "Nurses in smaller rural communities are highly regarded by their local communities and are trusted for the advice that they can provide. They also take pride in unique skills, networks and potentials they have as rural nurses and as part of rural communities.
"Primary health care is not well-understood by acute care health professionals. For nurses in acute hospital settings in particular, there tends to be more emphasis on treating the patient's immediate medical condition rather than thinking about how we approach the person receiving the care and their unique ongoing health care needs, which requires multi- and inter-disciplinary collaboration across health and social care sectors," Dr Harford said.
"A greater understanding by health care professionals working in hospitals about the need for comprehensive, coordinated, accessible and equitable health care will assist patients to get the care they need, especially those with chronic illnesses," Yun-Hee Jeon said.
Nurses using the workbook are required to work in pairs or groups to promote collaborative learning and discuss the issues with their patients and their families to understand the context of patients' health care needs.
Born and bred in Wagga Wagga, Professor Jill White, Dean of Sydney Nursing School, said she was "particularly pleased to assist the Murrumbidgee Local Health District provide the best possible care for people and to provide educational opportunities for nurses and midwives in rural areas in an affordable and accessible way.
"Understanding the value of a primary health care approach and an improved interface with community health services will enable nurses to assist patients to make informed choices and actively participate in their plan of care," Professor White said.
1 vial: when reconstituted with 2 mL of sterile water for injection (provided) contains 25 mg/mL of active ingredient.
Melarsomine dihydrochloride is an organic arsenical chemotherapeutic agent. Melarsomine has a molecular weight of 501.34 and is chemically designated as 4 - [(4, 6-diamino-1, 3, 5- triazon-2-yl) amino] phenyl-dithioarsenite of di (2-aminoethyl), dihydrochloride. It is freely soluble in water. When injected intramuscularly, it is rapidly absorbed. The exact mode of action on D. immitis is unknown.
Immiticide Sterile Powder is indicated for the treatment of stabilized Class 11, 22, and 33 heartworm disease caused by immature (4 month-old, stage L5) to mature adult infections of Dirofilaria immitis in dogs.
The following parameters were used to classify the dogs in the clinical field trials for Immiticide. Other parameters may be considered. As a general rule, conservative treatment should be employed since heartworm disease is serious and potentially fatal. If there is evidence of a high worm burden, patients should be categorized as Class 3.
Class 1: Patients in this category are characterized as having asymptomatic to mild heartworm disease. No radiographic signs or signs of anemia are evident. Patients with mild disease may have subjective signs such as a general loss of condition, fatigue on exercise, or occasional cough; however, no objective radiographic or other abnormal laboratory parameters will be present.
Class 2: Patients in this category are characterized as having moderate heartworm disease. Radiographic signs or signs of anemia [Packed Cell Volume (PCV) less than 30% but greater than 20%, or other hematologic parameters below normal] are evident. Mild proteinuria (2+) may be present. Radiographic signs may include right ventricular enlargement, slight pulmonary artery enlargement, or circumscribed perivascular densities plus mixed alveolar/interstitial lesions. Patients may be free of subjective clinical signs or may have a general loss of condition, fatigue on exercise, or occasional cough. If necessary, patients should be stabilized prior to treatment.
Class 3: Patients in this category are characterized as having severe heartworm disease. These patients have a guarded prognosis. Subjective signs of disease may include cardiac cachexia (wasting), constant fatigue, persistent cough, dyspnea, or other signs associated with right heart failure such as ascites and/or jugular pulse. Radiographic signs may include right ventricular enlargement or right ventricular plus right atrial enlargement, severe pulmonary artery enlargement, circumscribed to chronic mixed patterns and diffuse patterns of pulmonary densities or radiographic signs of thromboembolism. Signs of significant anemia (PCV <20% or other hematologic abnormalities) may be present. Proteinuria (> 2+) may be present. Patients may have only moderate clinical signs and significant laboratory or radiographic alterations or they may have significant clinical signs with only moderate laboratory and radiographic signs and be categorized as Class 3. Patients in Class 3 should be stabilized prior to treatment and then administered the alternate dosing regime (See PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION).
Immiticide is contraindicated in dogs with very severe (Class 4) heartworm disease. Patients in this category have Caval Syndrome (D. immitis present in the venae cavae and right atrium).
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children. Avoid human exposure. Wash hands thoroughly after use or wear gloves. Potentially irritating to eyes. Rinse eyes with copious amounts of water if exposed. Consult a physician in cases of accidental exposure by any route (dermal, oral, or by injection).
All dogs with heartworm disease are at risk for post-treatment pulmonary thromboembolism (death of worms which may result in fever, weakness, and coughing), though dogs with severe pulmonary arterial disease have an increased risk and may exhibit more severe signs (dyspnea, hemoptysis, right heart failure and possibly death). Dogs should be restricted from light to heavy exercise post-treatment depending on the severity of their heartworm disease.
Studies in healthy (heartworm negative) dogs indicate that adverse reactions may occur after the second injection in the series even if no problems were encountered with the first injection. All patients should be closely monitored during treatment and for up to 24 hours after the last injection.
Following stabilization, severely ill (Class 3) dogs should be treated according to the alternate dosing regime in an attempt to decrease post-treatment mortality associated with thromboembolism (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Post-treatment mortality due to thromboembolism and/or progression of the underlying disease may occur in 10 to 20% of the Class 3 patients treated with Immiticide (see Mortality). Hospitalization post-treatment and strict exercise restriction are recommended. Other supportive therapies should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If the alternate dosing regime is used, expect increased injection site reactions on the side receiving the second injection since the skeletal muscles at the first injection site may not have fully recovered (healed). If persistent swelling is present at 1 month, the second injections may be delayed for several weeks up to 1 month.
In clinical field trials, dogs 8 years or older experienced more post-treatment depression/lethargy, anorexia/inappetence, and vomiting than younger dogs.
Immiticide has a low margin of safety. A single dose of 7.5 mg/kg (3X the recommended dose) can result in pulmonary inflammation, edema, and death. Daily administration of 2X and 3X the recommended dose for 6 days caused no renal injury; however, daily administration of these doses for 14 days caused renal damage in healthy dogs. Adverse reactions, primarily at the injection sites, were seen at the recommended dose in clinical trials (see ADVERSE REACTIONS).
The safety of Immiticide was studied in 24 healthy beagle dogs. Drug was administered at 0, 2.5, 5.0, and 7.5 mg/kg for 6 consecutive days (0, 1, 2, and 3 times the recommended dosage). Clinical observations included tremors, lethargy, unsteadiness/ataxia, restlessness, panting, shallow and labored respiration, and/or rales. These signs were seen in all groups treated with Immiticide with frequency and intensity increasing with increasing dosage. Death or euthanasia in a moribund state occurred in 3/6 dogs in the 7.5 mg/kg (3X) group. The signs exhibited by these dogs, in addition to the signs described above, included collapse, severe salivation, vomiting, respiratory distress, cyanosis, stupor, and death within 4 hours of the first dose in two dogs and within 20 hours of the second dose in one dog.
Body weights, water consumption, hematology and urine parameters were comparable to controls. Decreased food consumption occurred sporadically in the two high dose groups. Elevations, up to 25-fold, in creatinine kinase (CK) and elevations, up to 7-fold, in aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were observed and related grossly and histologically to muscle damage at the injection sites. Up to 2-fold elevations in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were also noted. Gross and microscopic pathology revealed no organ-related toxicity other than edema and acute inflammation in the lungs and pleural effusion in the 3 dogs that died at the 7.5 mg/kg dose. Injection site irritation was observed in the skeletal muscles at all dose levels. At 5.0 mg/kg an injection site abscess was observed in one dog.
A separate study was conducted to examine the intensity and duration of injection site reactions. The dogs were dosed at 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg (1X and 2X the recommended dose) twice 24 hours apart. This treatment series was repeated 4 months later. One group received the second treatment series after 1 month to mimic the alternate dosing regime. Swelling, which occurred within 7 days of injection and persisted from 1 to 72 days (average 30 days), was the most common clinical observation. A small, firm nodule in the lumbar region of one dog in the 1X group appeared during the first month of the study and persisted for 41 days. Pain at or following injection was not observed in this study. Elevations of the same magnitude as in the previous study and again related to muscle damage were observed in CK and AST within 8 hours of injection. The values approached pretest levels by 72 hours and were within the normal range established by control animals by 1 month post-injection.
Gross and microscopic evidence of injection site irritation (cellular infiltrate, fibrosis, necrosis, and hemorrhage) was still evident in the muscles 1 month post-injection in dogs at both dose levels. By 3 months post-injection, resolution (healing) was evident microscopically in the skeletal muscles at the 2.5 mg/kg dose level. One dog treated at the 2X dose had extension of treatment-related injection site inflammation into deeper tissues (i.e., abdominal cavity) as evidenced by an adhesion between the spleen and mesentery.
Injection Sites: At the recommended dosage in clinical field trials, significant irritation was observed at the intramuscular injection sites, accompanied by pain, swelling, tenderness, and reluctance to move. Approximately 30% of treated dogs experienced some kind of reaction at the injection site(s). Though injection site reactions were generally mild to moderate in severity and recovery occurred in 1 week to 1 month, severe reactions did occur (< 1.0 %), so care should be taken to avoid superficial or subcutaneous injection and leakage. Firm nodules can persist indefinitely.
Coughing/gagging, depression/lethargy, anorexia/inappetence, fever, lung congestion, and vomiting were the most common reactions observed in dogs treated with Immiticide. Hypersalivation and panting occurred rarely in clinical trials (1.9% and 1.6%, respectively); however, these signs may occur within 30 minutes of injection and may be severe. One dog vomited after each injection of Immiticide, despite pretreatment with anti-emetics. All adverse reactions resolved with time or treatment with the exception of a limited number of injection site reactions (persistent nodules, (See Table: Average Onset Time and Duration (with Ranges) of the Most Common Reactions in Clinical Trials) and a low number of post-treatment deaths (See Mortality).
The following table enumerates adverse events that occurred in 1.5% or more of dogs with Class 1, 2, and 3 heartworm disease treated with Immiticide in clinical field trials. Comparison is made with the same adverse events reported in dogs treated with placebo. Some of the following clinical observations/adverse reactions seen in dogs treated with Immiticide may be directly attributable to the drug or they may be secondary to worm death and/or the underlying heartworm disease process.
Clinical observations/adverse reactions occurring in less than 1.5% of the dogs treated with Immiticide include: abdominal hemorrhage, abdominal pain, bloody stool/diarrhea, colitis, gingivitis, pancreatitis, anemia, DIC, hemoglobinemia, icterus (mucous membranes), discolored urine, hematuria, inappropriate urination, low specific gravity, polyuria, pyuria, bronchitis, miscellaneous respiratory problem, pneumonia, tachypnea, tracheobronchitis, wheezing, alopecia, hair color and coat character change, miscellaneous skin problem, ataxia, disorientation, fatigue/tires easily, miscellaneous eye problem, weight loss, convulsion/seizure, leukocytosis, polydipsia, and restlessness.
The following table is provided to show the average onset time post-treatment for the most common reactions and the average duration of each event, as calculated from the 311 dogs treated with Immiticide in the clinical field trials.
Death is a possible sequelae of heartworm disease in dogs with or without treatment, especially in the Class 3 dogs. The following table shows the percentage of dogs that died in clinical trials with Immiticide® and the causes of death, if known.
Mortality in Dogs with Class 1, 2, and 3 Heartworm Disease Treated with Immiticide in Clinical Field Trials
In one small (n=15), uncontrolled field study in severely ill (Class 3) dogs, 5 dogs died following treatment. Pulmonary thromboembolism was the cause of one death. The remaining dogs were not necropsied. All 5 dogs were in right heart failure at the time of treatment. Clinical signs seen in this study which were not seen in the larger studies include atrial fibrillation, collapse, hypothermia, and weakness.
In addition to the aforementioned adverse reactions reported in pre-approval clinical studies, there have also been rare reports of paresis and paralysis in dogs following administration of Immiticide. To report a suspected adverse reaction, contact Merial at 1-888-637-4251, option 3.
Three dogs were inadvertently overdosed with Immiticide in the clinical field trials when the dose was calculated on a mg/lb basis rather than a mg/kg basis (2X overdosage). Within 30 minutes of injection, one dog showed excessive salivation, panting, restlessness, and fever with all signs resolving within 4 hours. Vomiting and diarrhea were seen in the second dog within 24 hours of injection. The dog vomited once and the diarrhea resolved within 24 hours. The third dog showed no systemic reaction to the overdosage. Clinical observations in healthy beagle dogs after receiving up to 3X the recommended dose included tremors, lethargy, unsteadiness/ataxia, restlessness, panting, shallow and labored respiration, rales, severe salivation, and vomiting which progressed to respiratory distress, collapse, cyanosis, stupor, and death (See SAFETY).
BAL in Oil Ampules (Dimercaprol Injection, USP) [Akorn, San Clemente, California, at 1-800-223-9851] is reported in the literature to be an antidote for arsenic toxicity and was shown in one study to reduce the signs of toxicity associated with overdosage of Immiticide. The efficacy of Immiticide may be reduced with co-administration of BAL.
Results of the laboratory and clinical field trials demonstrate that treatment with Immiticide results in reduction and/or clearance of D. immitis infection in dogs with Class 1, 2, and 3 heartworm disease. Evaluations for efficacy were determined by post-mortem worm counts in the laboratory studies and detection of antigen in the blood and subjective clinical assessments in the clinical trials. Physical exams, assessments of clinical variables, class of heartworm disease, radiographic examinations, as well as complete blood counts, serum chemistry profiles, and urinalysis were evaluated in the field trials.
In placebo-controlled laboratory studies, Immiticide, administered at 2.5 mg/kg twice, 24 hours apart, was 90.7% effective against transplanted adult heartworms and 90.8% effective against induced infections of 4 month old (L5) immature heartworms. To evaluate the effectiveness of the alternate dosing regimen, dogs with transplanted heartworms were treated with either 2.5 mg/kg once or 2.5 mg/kg once followed 1 month later with 2.5 mg/kg administered twice 24 hours apart. A single injection of Immiticide at 2.5 mg/kg reduced male worms 87.7% and female worms 16.9% (total 51.7%). When the full regime was used 100% of male worms and 98% of female worms were killed (total 99%). Dogs with natural D. immitis infections were treated with Immiticide at 2.5 mg/kg twice, 24 hours apart. This dose was repeated 4 months later. Antigen tests performed at month 4 showed a 90% conversion from antigen positive to negative status. Worm counts at month 9 showed a 98.7% reduction in worm numbers as compared to placebo controls.
In two well-controlled field studies, 169 client-owned dogs, 1 to 12 years old and weighing 3.0 to 59.0 kg, with Class 1 or stabilized Class 2 heartworm disease were treated with the recommended dose of Immiticide. In-office blood antigen tests were used pretreatment to diagnose the D. immitis infection and 4 months after drug administration to assess treatment response. At month 4, 76.2 to 81% of the dogs had converted from antigen positive to antigen negative status. The conversion rate ranged from 89.7 to 98.2% after two treatment series. In an open-label study in 102 dogs, 1 to 18 years old and weighing 4.4 to 40.8 kg, with Class 1 or stabilized Class 2 heartworm disease, the conversion rate was 84% 4 months after one series of treatments. When a second series was given at month 4, the conversion rate was 94%.
An open-label clinical field study was conducted in 44 dogs, 1.5 to 14 years old and weighing 3.2 to 50.0 kg, with stabilized, Class 3 heartworm disease. Dogs received the alternate dosing regime (2.5 mg/kg once followed 1 month later by 2.5 mg/kg twice 24 hours apart). The conversion rate was 89.2% 4 months after the final treatment. In a small, uncontrolled field trial (n=10) in Class 3 dogs the conversion rate was 100% 4 months after treatment.
Immiticide should be administered ONLY by deep intramuscular injection in the epaxial (lumbar) muscles in the third through fifth lumbar region (see graphic). DO NOT ADMINISTER AT ANY OTHER SITE. Avoid superficial injection or leakage. Use a 23 gauge 1 inch needle for dogs equal to or less than 10 kg (22 lb) in weight. Use a 22 gauge 11/2 inch needle for dogs greater than 10 kg (22 lb). Use alternating sides with each administration. If repeated administrations are warranted avoid injecting at the same lumbar location. Record the location of the first injection(s) in the patient's medical record for future reference.
It is vital to classify the severity of heartworm disease to apply the appropriate dosage regime for Immiticide (See INDICATIONS).
If necessary, dogs should be stabilized prior to treatment. Immiticide should be administered intramuscularly in the lumbar (L3 - L5) muscles at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg twice, 24 hours apart (See Dosing Table). Four months following treatment, a second treatment series (2.5 mg/kg twice, 24 hours apart) can be elected taking into consideration the response to the first Immiticide treatment and the condition, age, and use of the dog. Worms that were too young to be killed by the first treatment series, i.e., < 4 months, may be killed by a second treatment series.
Dogs with severe (Class 3) heartworm disease should be stabilized prior to treatment and then dosed intramuscularly in the lumbar (L3 - L5) muscles with a single injection of 2.5 mg/kg then approximately 1 month later with 2.5 mg/kg administered twice 24 hours apart (See Dosing Table).
Care must be taken to administer the proper dose. Accurately weigh the dog and calculate the volume to be injected based on the dose of 2.5 mg/kg (1.1 mg/lb). This is equivalent to 0.1 mL/kg (0.045 mL/lb). The following table should be used as a guide to ensure that the proper volume has been calculated.
Immiticide should be aseptically reconstituted only with 2.0 mL of sterile water for injection (provided as 2.0 mL sterile water for injection USP). This provides 2.5 mg melarsomine dihydrochloride per 0.1 mL of injectable solution. Two 50 mg vials will be required for dogs weighing > 20 kg and 40 kg and 3 vials will be required for dogs > 40 kg and 60 kg. Use immediately. Reconstituted solution may be used within 24 hours if refrigerated and kept from light.
A baseline can be established pre-treatment by using commercially available in-office heartworm antigen test kits prior to treatment. Treatment response can be assessed best by heartworm antigen testing applied 4 months after treatment. A successful treatment is determined to be conversion from an antigen positive to an antigen negative status. In dogs with signs of heartworm disease, gradual improvement should be observed as the long-term effects of the heartworm infection resolve. Some dogs may have chronic effects that will not totally resolve.
During the course of clinical field trials, Immiticide was administered concurrently with anti-inflammatories, antibiotics, insecticides, heartworm prophylactics, and various other drugs commonly used to stabilize and support dogs with heartworm disease with no adverse drug interactions noted.
If the dog is not currently receiving commercially available heartworm preventatives, they may be administered consistent with label recommendations and re-exposure risk.
Store upright at room temperature. After reconstitution, solutions should be stored under refrigeration and kept from light in the original packaging for 24 hours. Do not freeze reconstituted solution.
To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Penicillin V Potassium tablets and other antibacterial drugs, Penicillin V Potassium tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria.
The potassium salt of penicillin V has the distinct advantage over penicillin G in resistance to inactivation by gastric acid. It may be given with meals; however, blood levels are slightly higher when the drug is given on an empty stomach. Average blood levels are two to five times higher than the levels following the same dose of oral penicillin G and also show much less individual variation.
Once absorbed, penicillin V is about 80% bound to serum protein. Tissue levels are highest in the kidneys, with lesser amounts in the liver, skin, and intestines. Small amounts are found in all other body tissues and the cerebrospinal fluid. The drug is excreted as rapidly as it is absorbed in individuals with normal kidney function; however, recovery of the drug from the urine indicates that only about 25% of the dose given is absorbed. In neonates, young infants, and individuals with impaired kidney function, excretion is considerably delayed.
Penicillin V Potassium Tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of mild to moderately severe infections due to penicillin G-sensitive microorganisms. Therapy should be guided by bacteriological studies (including sensitivity tests) and by clinical response.
For the prevention of recurrence following rheumatic fever and/or chorea: Prophylaxis with oral penicillin on a continuing basis has proven effective in preventing recurrence of these conditions.
Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted, penicillin V has been suggested by the American Heart Association and the American Dental Association for use as an oral regimen for prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis in patients who have congenital heart disease or rheumatic or other acquired valvular heart disease when they undergo dental procedures and surgical procedures of the upper respiratory tract1. Oral penicillin should not be used in those patients at particularly high risk for endocarditis (e.g., those with prosthetic heart valves or surgically constructed systemic pulmonary shunts).
Penicillin V should not be used as adjunctive prophylaxis for genitourinary instrumentation or surgery, lower-intestinal tract surgery, sigmoidoscopy, and childbirth. Since it may happen that alpha hemolytic streptococci relatively resistant to penicillin may be found when patients are receiving continuous oral penicillin for secondary prevention of rheumatic fever, prophylactic agents other than penicillin may be chosen for these patients and prescribed in addition to their continuous rheumatic fever prophylactic regimen.
To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Penicillin V Potassium Tablets, USP and other antibacterial drugs, Penicillin V Potassium Tablets, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy.
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including penicillin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile.
Penicillin tablets should be used with caution in individuals with histories of significant allergies and/or asthma.
Prescribing Penicillin V Potassium tablets in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria.
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Penicillin V Potassium tablets should only be used to treat bacterial infections. They do not treat viral infections (e.g., the common cold). When Penicillin V Potassium tablets are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection, patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy, the medication should be taken exactly as directed. Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may: (1) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment, and (2) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Penicillin V Potassium tablets or other antibacterial drugs in the future.
The dosage of Penicillin V Potassium tablets should be determined according to the sensitivity of the causative microorganisms and the severity of infection, and adjusted to the clinical response of the patient.
Mild to moderately severe - of the upper respiratory tract and including scarlet fever and erysipelas: 125 to 250 mg (200,000 to 400,000 units) every 6 to 8 hours for 10 days.
Mild to moderately severe - of the respiratory tract, including otitis media: 250 to 500 mg (400,000 to 800,000 units) every 6 hours until the patient has been afebrile for at least 2 days.
Penicillin V Potassium Tablets, USP 250 mg (400,000 units) are white round film coated tablets bisected from one side and engraved with “W” on the upper side of the bisect and with “111” on the lower side.
Penicillin V Potassium Tablets, USP 500 mg (800,000 units) are white modified capsule shaped film coated tablets bisected from both sides and engraved with “W” on one side of the bisect and “112” on the other side.
Keep tightly closed. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container, as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure.
You have indicated the following: you are younger than 55 years old, you have joint pain other than in the hip, there is no pain when pressing over the hip area, and symptoms did not begin suddenly.
Located in Wroclaw City Center, this apartment is within a 10-minute walk of Rynek and Wroclaw University. Wroclaw Cathedral and Raclawice Panorama are also within 1 mile (2 km).
e-book Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer
Get PDF Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer
Free download. Book file PDF easily for everyone and every device. You can download and read online Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer file PDF Book only if you are registered here. And also you can download or read online all Book PDF file that related with Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer book. Happy reading Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer Bookeveryone. Download file Free Book PDF Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer at Complete PDF Library. This Book have some digital formats such us :paperbook, ebook, kindle, epub, fb2 and another formats. Here is The CompletePDF Book Library. It's free to register here to get Book file PDF Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer Pocket Guide.
Coordonnateurs : Leong Stanley P. L., Kitagawa Yuko, Kitajima Masaki!
Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer?
Metric Handbook - Planning and Design Data.
Link Either by signing into your account or linking your membership details before your order is placed. Description Table of Contents Product Details Click on the cover image above to read some pages of this book! Industry Reviews From the reviews: "This is a current comprehensive book on sentinel lymphadenectomy All Rights Reserved. More Books in Oncology See All. In Stock.
When Breath Becomes Air What makes life worth living in the face of death. Anticancer A New Way of Life. The Cancer-Fighting Kitchen 2nd Edition. Dermoscopy The Essentials : 2nd Edition. Coaching Psychology Manual. Dacie and Lewis Practical Haematology. Pharmacotherapy A Pathophysiologic Approach : 10th Edition.
Stanley P L Leong Yuko Kitagawa Masaki Kitajima - AbeBooks;
Popular Searches nursing textbooks for sale used nursing books for sale nursing care plan example pharmacology and the nursing process nursing health assessment books. View Wishlist. Our Awards Booktopia's Charities.
Geographies of Womens Health: Place, Diversity and Difference (Routledge International Studies of Women and Place).
More Books by Stanley P. L. Leong, Yuko Kitagawa & Masaki Kitajima.
Visual Thought: The Depictive Space of Perception!
Sentinel lymphadenectomy for staging and treatment of solid tumors is now standard of care in many settings. In this text, distinguished investigators review the technical aspects and clinical considerations related to this procedure.
Steven T. Rosen, M. Series Editor. More Books by Stanley P.
Early diagnosis makes it useful as a clinical staging procedure, and opens up new opportunities to study micrometastasis and its evolution within the SLNs. New molecular and genetic tools may be used to dissect the mechanisms of lymphatic and hemotogenous routes of metastasis. If such mechanisms can be understood, new therapeutic advances may be developed to prevent the process of micrometastasis.
Selective Sentinel Lymphadenectomy for Human Solid Cancer - Springer
Steven T. Rosen, M. See All Customer Reviews. Shop Books. Add to Wishlist.
tyruvyvizo.cf talks about Sentinel lymph node biopsy
USD Sign in to Purchase Instantly. Overview Lymph node LN status is the most important prognostic indicator for the clinical outcome of patients in human solid cancer. Series Editor. Product Details Table of Contents.
Stanley P L Leong Yuko Kitagawa Masaki Kitajima
(eds) Selective sentinel lymphadenectomy for human solid cancer. Is sentinel lymph node mapping in colorectal cancer a future prognostic.
Autoantibodies to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 in patients with connective tissue diseases. - PubMed - NCBI
1 selected item: 20470389
Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(3):R85. doi: 10.1186/ar3012. Epub 2010 May 14.
Takahashi Y1, Haga S, Ishizaka Y, Mimori A.
Division of Rheumatic Diseases, Research Institute, International Medical Center of Japan, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8655, Japan.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2, a homolog of ACE, converts angiotensin (Ang) II into Ang(1-7), and the vasoprotective effects of Ang(1-7) have been documented. We explored the hypothesis that serum autoantibodies to ACE2 predispose patients with connective tissue diseases to constrictive vasculopathy, pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), or persistent digital ischemia.
Serum was examined from 42 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), scleroderma, or mixed connective tissue disease. Eighteen vasculopathy patients with PAH (five cases) and/or persistent digital ischemia (16 cases) were compared with 24 patients without these vasculopathies (control patients) for serum reactivity to purified recombinant human ACE2, using an ELISA.
The sera from 17 of the 18 (94%) vasculopathy patients had ELISA scores above the baseline level determined using control sera from 28 healthy subjects, and the mean ELISA score in the vasculopathy patients was significantly higher than that in the control patients (P<0.0005). The relative activity of serum ACE2, which was defined using a reference serum, correlated inversely with the ELISA scores for serum anti-ACE2 antibodies in the 18 vasculopathy patients (R2=0.6872). The IgG fraction from vasculopathy patients, but not from healthy subjects, inhibited ACE2 activities in vitro. Consistent with this, immunosuppressive therapy given to one SLE patient with digital necrosis markedly decreased the anti-ACE2 antibody titer and restored serum ACE2 activity.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 autoantibodies: further evidence for a role of the renin-angiotensin system in inflammation. [Arthritis Res Ther. 2010]
10.1186/ar3012
Summarized results of ELISA for detecting serum anti-angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 antibodies. The ELISA scores of the vasculopathy patients (n = 18) are significantly higher than those of patients without vasculopathy (n = 24) and those of healthy subjects (n = 28). Bars indicate the median. P < 0.01.
Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(3):R85-R85.
Inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 activity by IgG purified from patient serum. (a) Purified IgG from the sera of healthy volunteers (H1 to H3) and patients with vasculopathy (P1, P5, and P6) was detected by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining. The molecular weights of the heavy (50 kDa) and light (25 kDa) chains of IgG are shown. (b) The inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2 activity by 5 μg purified IgG was examined in triplicate assays. As a control, ACE2 activity in standard rACE2 was measured in the absence of IgG. As shown, ACE2 activity was significantly reduced when the recombinant enzyme was co-incubated with IgG from the patients. P < 0.01. RFU, relative fluorescence unit.
Inverse correlation between the presence of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 autoantibodies and activity in vasculopathy patients. The relative (%) activity of serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2 compared with the reference value and ELISA score of the same sera were plotted in (a) 26 healthy subjects, (b) 16 patients without vasculopathy, and (c) 18 vasculopathy patients, respectively, and Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated. The relative ACE2 activities were determined based on a reference serum (mixed sera from healthy subjects). (d) Western blot analysis to detect ACE2 protein in serum. Immunoprecipitation followed by immunoblotting was performed on sera of healthy subjects (H1 to H3) and vasculopathy patients (P1 to P5). ACE2 was detected as a major band about 90 kDa in size (see also Additional file ).
Anti-angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 antibodies and activity in a systemic lupus erythematosus patient. Anti-angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2 antibodies and ACE activity in a systemic lupus erythematosus patient (SLE) before and after therapy. (a) The ELISA score and (b) the ACE2 activity of Patient 1 (P1) recovered significantly after therapy.
Betterhelp Promo Code Free Trial – Lets Talk – Menstrual Monday
Betterhelp Promo Code Free Trial – Lets Talk
This article will explain the background of and techniques utilized in 2 major kinds of psychiatric therapy: behavior therapy and psychoanalysis. Betterhelp Promo Code Free Trial…
Behavior modification, likewise called behavioral adjustment, uses individuals's actions worldwide as the access point for resolving a variety of issues– not only behavioral issues but likewise problems including thoughts and feelings. Behavioral psychologists presume that issue habits are brought on by interactions in between individuals and their environments. Issues take place when a person's environment rewards destructive behaviors; over time, these habits end up being habits.
Behavior modification is used to deal with such dangerous routines as smoking cigarettes, compound use, consuming conditions, sleeping disorders, and the failure to handle stress efficiently. Behavior therapy can also be utilized to treat bigger psychological disorders, including obsessive-compulsive disorder, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety, anxiety, and personality conditions.
For instance, to help a client with obsessive-compulsive disorder, a behavioral therapist may teach that individual, gradually, to tolerate a reasonable amount of dirt in their environment or to avoid constantly cleaning their hands. This strategy is called exposure therapy..
Behavior therapy can also be utilized to enhance positive habits, such as company, participation in sports, and border forming. Betterhelp Promo Code Free Trial
Behavior therapy can be traced to the research study of Russian psychologist Ivan Pavlov, which was published in the 1920s and 1930s. In a well-known experiment, Pavlov classically conditioned dogs to salivate when he rang a bell because the pets learned to associate the presence of food with the noise of the bell.
Behavior therapy is also related to the work of US psychologist B.F. Skinner, who studied operant conditioning in the 1930s. Operant conditioning suggests finding out habits through punishments and rewards. While dealing with clients in a psychiatric hospital, Skinner discovered that habits could be "formed" (gradually changed) when positive behaviors were followed by unfavorable behaviors and desirable effects were followed by undesired repercussions.
Behavior modification was later on developed as a treatment approach when the work of psychologists such as Aaron Beck and Albert Ellis led to Cognitive Behavioral Therapy ( CBT). CBT is based upon the theory that individuals's thoughts identify both their feelings and their behaviors. When therapists assist individuals change their thoughts, they can help them change their lives.
Behavior modification is based on the belief that we are influenced by and learn from our environment. Behavioral therapists assist clients change unhealthy habits by focusing on observable actions, rather than on what is taking place in the mind. Behavior therapy also concentrates on concrete changes in today instead of on insight into the past.
I went through a duration of severe separation anxiety when my parents initially got divorced, then ended up being afraid of whatever (rollercoasters, frightening motion pictures, bees, motion picture theaters, you call it). I was mostly able to deal with it, however in 7th grade, my stress and anxiety unexpectedly got so much worse.
I became obsessive about checking the locks on windows and doors, the stove, and established an illogical worry of getting food poisoning. It got to the point where I simply desired to sleep all the time due to the fact that.
What is mental health protection? When it pertains to counseling, individuals usually question just how much it costs with or without a health insurance and how to spend for it. Health care systems and markets can be complicated, however individuals seek psychological health treatment every day, and we're here to walk you through the many psychological health benefits available.
Can BetterHelp prescribe medication? Betterhelp Promo Code Free Trial
There are lots of methods to pay for mental health treatment. What is covered by health insurance coverage and what isn't can be confusing at? The Mental Health Parity Act is a component of the Affordable Care Act that requires big medical insurance service providers and health insurance to offer equal protection for mental illness (consisting of substance abuse coverage and treatment). Contact your insurance provider for additional information..
There are no fast and easy responses to the concern of whether your health insurance plan will cover your therapy sessions or mental health services. The law does not mandate little medical insurance companies with fewer than fifty employees to have health insurance cover the cost of treatment. A therapist's office can also assist with these questions and you can always contact your health insurance benefits department or insurance provider to confirm what level of mental health protection you have.
Many companies that aren't governed by the Affordable Care Act or the Mental Health Parity Act choose to provide psychological health coverage for their employees. Before seeing a therapist, it's important to see if the service provider takes your health insurance coverage.
For relative, it might be useful to check out a Children's Health Insurance Program, CHIP. Individuals with diagnosed mental disorders, compound usage condition, or other mental illnesses can discover their necessary health benefits may look for more information with the Consumer Assistance Program..
Medicaid programs are a good option for member of the family, particularly those with a diagnosable condition, psychological health condition, pre-existing condition, or those trying to find a kids's medical insurance program/CHIP. Find out more about these programs at Healthcare.gov..
You may look for in-office talk treatment that is covered by your insurance coverage if you're interested in decreasing costs. Numerous online treatment choices ( which might not be consisted of in some market strategies) can be much more affordable than even in-network alternatives..
A network service provider is a provider who accepts health insurance as a form of payment. In this case, that health insurance partly spends for mental healthcare. Although they may accept insurance for mental health protection, a network supplier is "inside" your health plan's network..
Rheumatoid Arthritis Linked to Comorbidities Before, After Diagnosis --Doctors Lounge
Category: Cardiology | Endocrinology | Family Medicine | Gastroenterology | Internal Medicine | Neurology | Pulmonology | Rheumatology | Journal
There are associations between rheumatoid arthritis and multiple comorbidities before and after diagnosis, with inflammatory bowel disease, type 1 diabetes, and venous thromboembolism (VTE) occurring more often before rheumatoid arthritis diagnosis versus controls, according to a study published online Nov. 20 in the Mayo Clinic Proceedings.
"Future studies should investigate why the observed overlap between RA and these comorbidities occurs and then examine whether heightened screening for RA and its comorbidities leads to improved outcomes," the authors write.
Previous: Focused Ultrasound Thalamotomy May Reduce Essential Tremor Next: More Appropriate Prostate Cancer Tx Seen at Multidisciplinary Clinic
