A Study to Evaluate the Effectiveness and Safety of D-PLEX in the Prevention of Sternal Infection Post- Cardiac Surgery - Mayo Clinic
NCT ID: NCT03558984
Sponsor Protocol Number: D-PLEX 302
Subjects of age 18 years and older.
Subjects with both Diabetes Mellitus AND BMI ≥ 30 OR Diabetes Mellitus/BMI ≥ 30 AND at least one of the following:
Current/Previous smoking history ≥ 30 pack year;
Subjects with known allergies to more than 3 substances (an allergy questionnaire will be filled during the screening process).
In the opinion of investigator, subject is not eligible to participate in the study and/or to comply with protocol requirements (e.g., due to a cognitive, medical condition or residency distanced from site that may jeopardize Follow-Up visits attendance etc.).
Crossroads in Advanced RCC Decision- Making: With Many Options, How Will You Treat Your Patient Today?... And Tomorrow? | Online CME
Community Practice Connections®: Medical Crossfire®: Crossroads in Advanced RCC Decision-Making: With Many Options, How Will You Treat Your Patient Today?... And Tomorrow? is a case-based, interactive, online CME activity based on a live symposium that was held adjunct to the 2019 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium in San Francisco. Clinical decision-making in the setting of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) has been undergoing dramatic change. The approval of new systemic agents has expanded the lines of therapy available to patients, and raised questions about how rational treatment planning and effective sequencing of new and older standards of care can optimize patient outcomes. Additionally, the benefit of real-world experience and data from subgroup analyses and long-term follow-up of landmark clinical trials continue to refine treatment strategies in RCC.
This program consists of a series of interactive clinical vignettes and short video interviews with leading experts in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The video interviews address decision points in the clinical vignettes, as well as questions commonly faced in the community oncology practice setting.
This educational program is directed toward medical oncologists, surgical oncologists, radiation oncologists, and urologists involved in the treatment of RCC. Nurse practitioners, physician assistants, nurses, and other healthcare professionals interested in the treatment and management of patients with RCC are also invited to participate.
Explain the biologic factors that drive renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and provide the rationale for using targeted agents and immunotherapies as single agents and in combination
Disclosures: Consultant: Novartis, AMGEN, BMS, Ipsen, Roche, Pfizer, Astellas, Merck.
Disclosures: Grant/Research Support: AstraZeneca, Alexion, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb/ER Squibb and Sons LLC, Cerulean, Eisai, Foundation Medicine, Exelixis, Ipsen, Tracon, Genentech, Roche, Roche Products Limited, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Peloton, Pfizer, Prometheus Labs, Corvus, Calithera, Analysis Group, Sanofi/Aventis, Takeda; Consultant: AstraZeneca, Alexion, Sanofi/Aventis, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb/ER Squibb and Sons LLC, Cerulean, Eisai, Foundation Medicine, Exelixis, Genentech, Heron Therapeutics, Lilly, Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Novartis, Peloton, Pfizer, EMD Serono, Prometheus Labs, Corvus, Lilly, Ipsen, Up-to-Date, NCCN, Analysis Group; Other: Honoraria: AstraZeneca, Alexion, Sanofi-Aventis, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb/ER Squibb and Sons LLC, Cerulean, Eisai, Foundation Medicine, Exelixis, Genentech, Roche, Roche Products Limited, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Novartis, Peloton, Pfizer, EMD Serono, Prometheus Labs, Corvus, Ipsen, Up-to-Date, NCCN, Analysis Group, NCCN, NEJM, Lancet Oncology, Heron Therapeutics, Lilly.
Department of Medical Oncology & Therapeutics Research Co-Director, Kidney Cancer Program
Disclosures: Consultant: Pfizer, BMS, Exelixis, Novartis, Ipsen, GSK, Astellas, Medivation; Speakers Bureau: Genentech.
Clinical Professor of Genitourinary Oncology (HCC) Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre
Disclosures: Grant/Research Support: MSD, AstraZeneca, Roche; Other: Honoraria: BMS, Merck, Roche, AstraZeneca, Novartis, Pfizer, Ipsen, MSD.
Insights From Thomas Powles, MBBS, MRCP, MD—PER Pulse™ Recap:
Community Practice Connections™: Medical Crossfire®: Crossroads in Advanced RCC Decision Making: With Many Options, How Will You Treat Your Patient Today?... And Tomorrow?
In the continuing medical education–certified activity, Community Practice Connections™: Medical Crossfire®: Crossroads in Advanced RCC Decision Making: With Many Options, How Will You Treat Your Patient Today?... And Tomorrow?, expert faculty—including Laurence Albiges, MD, PhD; Toni K. Choueiri, MD; Robert Figlin, MD; Sumanta K. Pal, MD; and Thomas Powles, MBBS, MRCP, MD—discuss recent clinical data and treatment decisions in advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
This first of 3 PER Pulse™ Recaps summarizing the online program focuses on evidence-based, practical guidance regarding locoregional and systemic treatment considerations for patients with metastatic clear cell RCC (ccRCC) who are eligible for nephrectomy. Below are some highlights from the activity featuring Dr. Powles:
His evidence-based treatment approaches for a 72-year-old patient with intermediate-risk ccRCC and a 52-year-old patient with ccRCC metastases 5 years after nephrectomy
Discussion of the appropriate use of nephrectomy with tyrosine kinase inhibitors, based on data from the phase III CARMENA trial of nephrectomy plus adjuvant sunitinib in patients with metastatic RCC (mRCC) and data from the phase III SURTIME trial of immediate versus delayed nephrectomy in patients with mRCC receiving sunitinib, as well as the role of nephrectomy with immune checkpoint inhibition
Review of other interventions beyond surgery currently being investigated, including cryoablation and radiofrequency ablation
Key factors to consider when selecting patients with mRCC for cytoreductive nephrectomy
"The thing that's changed the outcome of patients [with mRCC] in the last 20 years…is the introduction of systemic therapy. Systemic disease should be treated with systemic therapy. If surgery has a role, it needs to be done within the context of a multidisciplinary setting."
Insights From Sumanta K. Pal, MD—PER Pulse™ Recap:
As a follow-up to the continuing medical education–certified activity, Community Practice Connections™: Medical Crossfire®: Crossroads in Advanced RCC Decision Making: With Many Options, How Will You Treat Your Patient Today?... And Tomorrow?, this second of 3 PER Pulse™ Recaps summarizing the online program focuses on evidence-based, practical guidance regarding clinical decision making for patients with good-risk metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) at presentation who experience subsequent progression. Below are some highlights from the activity featuring Dr. Pal:
His treatment approach for a 65-year-old patient with clear cell RCC who experienced progression 2 years post nephrectomy, including assessing patient risk status and incorporating it into the treatment decision
Discussion about why patients with good-risk versus intermediate- or poor-risk status respond better to VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitors versus immunotherapy, including the impact of data from CheckMate 214 of nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus sunitinib in patients with treatment-naïve mRCC
A review of ongoing efforts to optimize VEGF TKI plus immune therapy for patients with mRCC, including the use of the cabozantinib-plus-atezolizumab protocol and discussion of data from the CABOSUN trial of cabozantinib plus atezolizumab in patients with poor- or intermediate-risk mRCC
Overview of the impact of data from the 2019 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium on mRCC treatment, such as the use of single-agent cabozantinib in patients with good-risk disease and doublet therapy with nivolumab/ipilimumab or axitinib/pembrolizumab for intermediate- or poor-risk disease
"These risk criteria that we've developed are very, very powerful, and we should use them as indicated for treatment allocation. It could really make a big difference whether or not we put a patient on combo therapy versus monotherapy, and it may affect our selection of targeted therapy with immune therapy versus double checkpoint inhibition."
— Sumanta K. Pal, MD
Insights From Laurence Albiges, MD, PhD—PER Pulse™ Recap:
As a follow-up to the continuing medical education–certified activity, Community Practice Connections™: Medical Crossfire®: Crossroads in Advanced RCC Decision Making: With Many Options, How Will You Treat Your Patient Today?... And Tomorrow?, this third of 3 PER Pulse™ Recaps summarizing the online program focuses on evidence-based, practical guidance regarding treatment considerations across all lines of therapy for non–clear cell renal cell carcinoma (nccRCC). Below are some highlights from the activity featuring Dr. Albiges:
Her diagnosis and treatment approach for a 23-year-old patient with nccRCC, including median expected survival rates, current treatment options, the importance of patient access to clinical trials for nccRCC, and potential therapies beyond the frontline
A review of the importance of meeting the supportive care needs of patients being treated for nccRCC, such as nutritional assessments, proper management of hand-foot syndrome, and multidisciplinary care
Discussion of ongoing trials and practice-changing data on nccRCC presented at the 2019 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium, including the phase II SUNIFORECAST trial of nivolumab/ipilimumab versus sunitinib in patients with treatment-naïve advanced nccRCC, the phase II KEYNOTE-427 trial of first-line pembrolizumab in advanced nccRCC, and the phase II CALYPSO trial of savolitinib and durvalumab in metastatic papillary RCC
"The good news is that it's not only clear cell but also the non–clear cell [RCC] world that is evolving quickly. We have more and more trials ongoing that focus on non–clear cell [RCC]…and we are now dedicating trials specifically to subtypes, such as papillary….The field is moving forward, and hopefully we'll be able to change our standard of care in [the] coming months or years."
— Laurence Albiges, MD, PhD
Expires on June 17, 2021
Arjun V. Balar, MD; Robert Dreicer, MD, MS, MACP, FASCO, Faculty Chair; Leonard G. Gomella, MD, FACS; Neal Shore, MD, FACS
Robert A. Figlin, MD, FACP; Toni K. Choueiri, MD; Daniel J. George, MD; Christopher G. Wood, MD, FACS
June 2018 – Page 7 – Canadian Pharmacy Online To USA
The Very Best Ways To Get Alabama Affordable Health Insurance The Alabama Department of Insurance can utilize you particular details about medical insurance coverage defense security for grown-ups such as the Alabama Health Insurance Plan, for kids such as Allkids, and for elders, consisting of Medicare and Medicaid. The Alabama …
Which is more economical, getting your medication from Canada or signing up for the new Medicare Part D? Making use of the Medicare site, I got in a series of medications for 5 different "customers." I then went to a variety of online Canadian drug shop websites and compared expenses …
Details to help your purchase Generic Cialis. Whether you indicate to obtain Generic Cialis or whether you prepare to acquire financially related to the generic Cialis market, you need to invest a long period of time on our site taking a look at market patterns and understanding the generic Cialis …
The Cost Of Health Insurance For America's Society It is no technique that the American society is advanced in offers of techniques. Individuals of American society have rights that individuals of bargains of other countries have in reality never ever comprehended. No matter all our wealth and all our rights, …
Prescriptions Can Reverse the Debilitating Effects of Depression If you or a liked one has in truth ever handled tension and stress and tension and stress and anxiety, you comprehend the incapacitating results it can have on the individual who experiences it, in addition to on relative and extraordinary friends. …
What You Need To Know About Internet Pharmacies People will naturally be continuously on the lookout for lots on products and services, both on the Internet and in real-life. It isn't truly unanticipated that an offer of people buy from Internet-based drug shops due to that of all the appealing …
Organic Slimming Pill Weight problems is among the significant issues in the world today. It has in reality now been identified as a unrelenting and substantial illness that considerably impacts various individuals than other. This remains in truth, an illness that can trigger severe medical conditions and might even cause …
Pharmacist Career – An Inside Look Understood for centuries as chemists, pharmacists have in truth injury up being as crucial and individualized as the house professional for terrific deals of people. Every part of drug store has in reality definitely developed over the last one hundred years. Ending up being …
Risks in Buying Cheap Discount Medicine at Online Pharmacies As you browse the Internet today, you will be surprised to see that there are a deal of online drug shops that clients like you can use and get medications from. Accredited or genuine online drug shops are established by local …
Utilizing LSD and Illegal Drugs as Treatment for Depression A "high" is the sensation that drug users to explain specific sensations that are experienced after taking drugs. One of the drugs utilized to achieve "highness" is lysergic acid diethyiamide (LSD). LSD us a prohibited drug in the United States and …
Osteoporosis Human Plasma - Innovative Research
HomeOsteoporosis Human Plasma
Osteoporosis Human Plasma
Catalog No.: IPLA-OSTO-N
Innovative Research's Osteoporosis Plasma collected from individuals in an FDA-approved collection center. The whole blood is collected and processed into plasma using FDA and ISO approved procedures and frozen immediately after processing. Each unit is tested and found negative for HBsAg, HCV, HIV-1, HIV-2, HIV-1Ag or HIV 1-NAT, ALT, and syphilis by FDA-Approved Methods. Sample volumes range from 0.5 ml to 1.8 ml per vial. Multiple samples and plasma/serum matched sets from the same donor may be available. Detailed patient history and clinical information are recorded at the time of draw; please inquire for availability of samples with any specific requirements.
Many pediatric sleep disorders cause learning and/or behavioral/emotional problems. Therefore, all professionals working with children/teens who have these problems should screen them for sleep disorders, especially if they are being referred for Special Education consideration or Mental Health Diagnoses (DSM-IV). Many of their learning and behavior/emotional problems will decrease if they have a sleep disorder that is corrected. This could save school districts and insurance companies billions of dollars in remedial or healthcare services if these sleep disorders are identified early and corrected. Presently, only about 2% of all children and adolescents with correctable sleep disorders are being screened and treated!
Our Sleep Disorders Inventory for Students (SDIS) is the first step to finding out if a child or adolescent has a high probability of a sleep disorder and needs to be referred to the pediatrician or sleep specialist for a comprehensive sleep evaluation. In cases of behavioral sleep disorders (i.e., Behavioral Insomnia of Childhood or Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome) our report provides behavioral interventions for the parent and professional to help the child or teen correct the problems, usually without needing to go to the pediatrician or sleep specialist for help.
The SDIS is recognized by sleep specialists and many other professionals as one of the leading sleep screening inventories in the world due to several factors:
2) All 11 recommended steps of validation were used to establish high validity and reliability for this screening instrument (see Spruyt & Gozal, January, 2011, in Sleep Medicine Review);
3) It is the only sleep screening instrument with quick, easy, and accurate computer scoring. It generates a clear graph and comprehensive report with excellent recommendations for professional and parents (who know little about sleep disorders). Our software also can maintain a large data base for researchers and school or hospital record maintenance. Furthermore, pediatricians are about 10 times more likely to refer children with high SDIS scores for a comprehensive sleep evaluation than when parents complain of sleep problems in their child, but have no reliable data to prove it. Pediatricians also have reliable data in their hands if insurance companies or Medicaid employees complain that the pediatrician is making too many referrals for comprehensive sleep evaluations.
1) We offer a variety of sizes of Sleep Disorder Inventory for Students (SDIS) Start-Up Kits, depending on the number of screenings professionals need to conduct each year. For screenings in School Districts or Hospitals, we recommend our USS200-US2000 series, which provides the CD scoring software and enables professionals to screen anywhere from 200 children to 2,000 children. With this package, the user is given permission to copy the SDIS Record Forms for the amount of children they select (200 to 2,000), which drastically cuts costs for large screenings in schools or hospitals. At Child Uplift, Inc., we try to make these large screenings so inexpensive that every child or adolescent coming through your doors will be screened, just like they all receive routine vision and hearing screenings! Approximately FIVE (5) times as many children and adolescents have sleep problems/ disorders than vision or hearing problems, which cause learning and/or behavior problems! All the more reason that all of our children in the USA should be routinely screened for sleep problems every 2-3 years, starting in preschool or kindergarten.
To view a list of our products, please click the "Professional Use" graphic on the right, or the "Product" tab in our menu
To find out more information about our professional sleep disorder screening or other services we can offer, please give us a call at 307-248-0226 or 307-248-0825. One of our knowledgeable staff members will be able to talk with you and discuss the screenings we have available so you can better understand what you are purchasing.
CGS : Mitochondria Replacement Would Forever Alter the Human Germline. Do You Want a Say?
Blogroll BioEdge Bioethics Forum Blog.Bioethics California Stem Cell Report DNA Science Futurisms Genetic Future Genetic Watchdog Genomics Law Report Genotopia Global Bioethics Impact Ethics The Niche Law and Biosciences Our Bodies, Our Blog RH Reality Check Science Progress The DNA Exchange The Loom Living Archives on Eugenics Wired Science Mitochondria Replacement Would Forever Alter the Human Germline. Do You Want a Say?
Posted by Jessica Cussins on November 15th, 2012
The Center for Genetics and Society has sent a letter strongly recommending against changing the United Kingdom law that – like those in dozens of other countries – prohibits procedures that would alter the genes we pass on to our children. Please consider adding your voice to this effort here. A research team at the United Kingdom's Newcastle University is working on techniques that produce human eggs containing genetic material from two women, and using them to create human embryos – and potentially children – with DNA from three parents. Children born after such "mitochondrial replacement" procedures would pass these genetic changes to their children and all subsequent generations. Testing the procedure in humans is currently illegal in the UK because it would constitute inheritable genetic modification – that is, it would irreversibly alter the human germline. Over 40 countries prohibit human germline engineering because of its profound social and ethical consequences, but the Newcastle researchers are eager to change the UK law so that they can bring their technique to clinical trial. Mitochondrial replacement would not alter genes in the nucleus. But the prohibition against human germline engineering represents a critical line in the sand. If the Newcastle proposal to alter mitochondrial genes is approved, we will have crossed that line; it will be harder to argue against other inheritable genetic modifications in the future. Like the research team from Oregon Health and Science University whose research was recently in the headlines, the Newcastle scientists stress that their procedures are worthwhile because they would enable women with unhealthy mitochondria to have a (mostly) genetically related child without mitochondrial disease. Inherited disease caused by mitochondrial DNA is relatively rare, affecting about 1 in 5,000-10,000 births. Women at risk of having an affected child have several other (far less experimental) options available to them, so these extreme procedures would be considered only in a very small number of cases. Because mitochondrial DNA and nuclear DNA interact with each other consistently and in complex ways that are imperfectly understood, the health risks to any future children created using these procedures would be very large. And these future children would obviously be unable to give their consent.The Human Fertilization and Embryology Authority (HFEA) ruled last year that a minimum number of further tests would be required before the safety of mitochondrial replacement in humans could be assessed (section 5.4). Even though these tests have not yet been completed, the HFEA is moving forward in an effort to gauge the public's point of view on the controversial technology. They have launched a public consultation to debate the ethical and social implications of the two novel technologies under discussion: pronuclear transfer (PNT) and maternal spindle transfer (MST). HFEA's consultation website has information on the science behind the new techniques being proposed and on various ethical concerns. The results of the consultation will be passed on to the Secretary of State for Health in the UK who will make the next decision as to whether these technologies can move to clinical trial in humans.Please voice your thoughts or concerns on these issues by submitting them to the HFEA's public consultation by December 7. For more information on the many social and ethical implications of mitochondrial transfer, please see the letter the Center for Genetics and Society has submitted to the Chair of the HFEA and to the Secretary of State for Health in the UK here. Please also check back for updated information on our website.Previously on Biopolitical Times:• Advocating Human Germline Interventions• Proposed New Gene Manipulation Technique in IVF: Is it Safe? Needed? A Precedent to Designer Babies?• Of Yeast Genes and Tinker Toys Posted in A "Post-Human" Future?, Assisted Reproduction, Bioethics, Biotech & Pharma, Egg Retrieval, Eugenics, Genetic Selection, Inheritable Genetic Modification, Jessica Cussins's Blog Posts, Media Coverage, Public Opinion, Reproductive Justice, Health & Rights, Sequencing & Genomics, The United Kingdom, US Federal
Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe: 10 Essential Health Benefits - Yami Chicken
March 13, 2022 by S Dhali
Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe is an easy, delicious dish that you can make for dinner tonight.
It's creamy and full of flavor with a mix of hot and mild spices that will please everyone in your house. It's our best cajun chicken pasta recipe yet!
Red Lobster is a popular seafood restaurant chain with over 670 locations throughout the States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, serving a variety of seafood dishes in restaurants ranging from casual to upscale dining to fine dining all under one roof.
This dish is an easy and delicious twist on chicken alfredo pasta. It's creamy and full of flavor with a mix of hot and mild spices that will please everyone in your house.
How To Make Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe?
4 Garlic Cloves, minced (use fresh if possible)
8 oz. Baked Chicken Breast, chopped
Step 1. Heat olive oil in a large deep skillet over medium heat. Add garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add dry spice, thyme, parsley flakes, and white pepper and cook 3-4 minutes more, until fragrant.
Step 2. Add cajun seasoning to the pan and stir to combine with spices. Stir in heavy cream, milk, 1/4 cup of water, and chopped chicken; bring to a quick boil. (Chicken will not be cooked through since you are using baked chicken.)
Step 3 . Drop in uncooked pasta and stir to combine. Cover skillet with a lid and let cook for 10 minutes. Uncover, add cooked pasta and parmesan cheese to the pan and stir well to combine. Cook until hot, about 20 seconds, then serve.
Step 4. Serve with hot sauce or a side salad; you can also cook your rice separately in chicken stock while the pasta cooks; this will give it more flavor. Enjoy!
Nutrition Fact of Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe
10 Essential Health Benefits of Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe
Along with being delicious, this recipe is full of health benefits. Apart from being high in protein and low in fat, it's also rich in zinc and vitamin C.
This recipe is good for your immune system because it provides the right vitamins and minerals.
Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe helps in weight loss by helping to thin the blood. Even a slight decrease in fat found in your body will increase calorie burn.
Because it is rich in omega 3 fatty acids, the cajun chicken alforado recipe helps protect your heart from free radical damage. It prevents chronic Inflammation that can cause heart disease and arthritis.
This recipe is full of complex carbohydrates that help keep your blood sugar levels under control. Because it's low in fat, you can still enjoy a meal without feeling bloated or stiff.
5. Helps To Balance Candida
Due to the high acidic content of this recipe, it's healthy for those suffering from Candida Albicans or any other infection or disease caused by too much yeast in the body from bland foods and contaminated water sources.
6. Healthy For Your Kidneys
This recipe is non-fat and low in sodium. Its probiotics (healthy bacteria) found in pasta, cream, and spices help prevent the formation of kidney stones and preserve the health of your kidneys.
The omega-3 fatty acids found in this recipe are good for our heart and cholesterol levels. These fatty acids help lower high bad cholesterol, leading to an increased risk of heart attacks or strokes.
8. Helps To Prevent Alzheimer's Disease
The omega-3 fatty acids in this recipe helps prevent the formation of amyloid plaques and other factors that contribute to Alzheimer's disease.
Participating in any physical activity regularly lowers your risk of developing various types of cancers, including breast cancer and colon cancer.
The increased levels of exercise also increase the production of good cholesterol, which helps to reduce your chance of suffering from blood clots that can cause a stroke or heart attack.
10. Helps Improve Your Memory
Although not proven, many studies show that people who eat high-fat diets with large amounts of sodium have a higher risk of developing cognitive decline. The healthy fats in this recipe help maintain a healthy brain, which is essential for brain function.
How To Serve Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe?
1. With hot sauce to dip fresh breadsticks or dipping bread.
2. As a side dish to any pasta, in a salad, with potatoes or as a sandwich with some crusty bread and melted cheese.
3. With fresh green beans and asparagus, or with French fries or any other vegetable of your choice.
5. If you make this dish is big enough, you can freeze it in small portions and then serve it later when you need it. The process of freezing the leftovers will not affect their taste too much.
6. Serve with a side salad, fresh vegetables, or fresh fruit for dessert.
Have Any Side Effects Of Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe?
If you eat this dish regularly, you may experience negative health effects. Some of these are:
If you experience these effects frequently, reducing the number of spices in this recipe or replacing them with natural alternatives is preferable. If these symptoms persist, please consult your doctor or nutritionist for treatment.
How To Keep Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo Recipe?
Although the storage time of most leftovers is 24 hours, we are not sure how long it will take to spoil.
If you decide to freeze the leftovers, it is best to divide them into small portions that you can use later. These meals can be stored for up to 6 months and retain most of their nutritional value.
Red Lobster Cajun Chicken Alfredo is a delicious, easy-to-make dish that is good for adults and children. It is high in antioxidants, protein, and essential fatty acids that help maintain a healthy heart and brain.
This recipe is also good for your immune system. Those who suffer from kidney stones or have a history of frequent kidney problems should be cautious with some of the ingredients in this recipe.
Your dog can play at this facility all day, and stay the night, in total comfort, with plenty of TLC. This is boarding with Best Friends. Your dog will enjoy safe, supervised social play with certified Doggy Day Camp counselors. Visit this center to see the difference caring makes.
Paws 'N Play Pet Camp
A unique new concept in pet care in San Diego. They offer vacation boarding for dogs, cats and pet birds in the San Diego area.
VICSD provides veterinary outpatient imaging in San Diego. Get veterinary radiology, ultrasound at this veterinary outpatient center, plus MRIs, CT scans, nuclear medicine for pets, scintigraphy, treatments for hyperthyroidism and more. Meet Seth Wallack and Matt Wright, vets who care about your pet.
At this pet health care facility, their mission is to deliver the highest quality of veterinary care in a state-of-the-art facility. They also strive to create a personalized environment that treats their patients and families in a caring and professional manner.
Complete animal care with four hospital locations in San Diego and Shots for Pets Mobile vaccination clinic.
Luxury dog boarding and grooming in Encinitas. Serving San Diego dogs and cats for 30 years.
San Diego's favorite Natural Dog Trainer and Canine Bahaviorist. John Rubin Dog Whisperer of San Diego, John's Natural Dog Training Company. Dog Training classes in Del Mar, Rancho Santa Fe.
San Diego's Top Professional Pet Sitters. Pet Sitting, Pet Sitter, Dog walker, doggie day care, san diego, san diego california.
Edit Provider Details for Allergy & Asthma Specialists LTD
Our practice was founded in 1951 by Dr. Herman Laibstain. For nearly six decades Hampton Roads families and individuals have chosen us for their allergy and asthma health care because: we know our patients well. Patient-Doctor time is the core of our success. Walk-ins for allergy injections are welcome. We are one of the few allergy and asthma clinics to provide allergy injections for walk-ins. Entire clinic operates as a team. Most staff members have been with us 15 – 30 years. Our 3 clinics are located in medical buildings which provide easy access and convenient parking. We provide the most current, researched, and professional treatment for allergies, asthma and allergic-related diseases.
Course Content - #55252: Medication Use in Dentistry - NetCE
#55252: Medication Use in Dentistry
Each day, millions of patients undergo dental procedures, most commonly restorative, prosthetic, periodontal, endodontic, and surgical procedures. New and improved techniques and instrumentation have provided clinicians with the means to perform high-quality treatment in an efficient manner. However, successful dental treatment involves more than focused techniques and procedures. The many classifications of medications used before, during, and after dental treatment are critical adjuncts in the delivery of dental care. Local anesthetics are one of the most often used classes of medications; it is difficult to imagine restorative and surgical treatment without the use of these agents. In addition, analgesics relieve pain associated with acute dental problems and postprocedural pain after oral and periodontal surgery and endodontic treatment. Antibiotic, antifungal, and antiviral medications are necessary when microbial organisms overcome host defenses and assume a pathologic course. Many patients have fear and anxiety regarding dental procedures, and for these patients, sedative and anxiolytic medications may provide the only means by which they can undergo dental treatment.
This course will describe the most common medications used in dentistry. The indications for use, problematic side effects, interactions with other medications, and unique characteristics of each medication will be discussed. It is not the intent of this course to provide patient-specific advice for the administration of any type medication. Each clinician should consider the medical history of the patient and his or her unique dental needs before any medication is prescribed.
Local anesthetics are so commonplace in the practice of dentistry today that the origin of their use may be taken for granted. In 1884, Dr. William Halstead injected cocaine into a sensory nerve trunk to induce a state of surgical anesthesia [1]. Two decades later, a synthetic analog of cocaine was developed and used as the first local anesthetic. Procaine, better known by its trade name of Novocain, was an ester-based local anesthetic created in 1904 [1]. Although a breakthrough at the time, several problems were associated with its use. Allergic reactions, delayed onset of anesthesia, and a short duration of action were the most common problems. As such, the search began for a local anesthetic that could provide profound anesthesia with minimal deleterious side effects. All current local injectable anesthetics are chemically classified as amides, with topical anesthetics the lone remaining ester-based representative [2,3].
Lidocaine (2%) was the first amide-based local anesthetic created in the 1940s and remains the most popular local anesthetic used in the United States today [2,3]. The onset of anesthesia is usually less than five minutes, and allergic reactions are a rarity. Lidocaine is available without a vasoconstrictor but is most commonly used with a 1:100,000 concentration of epinephrine. The addition of epinephrine constricts the small blood vessels in the injection area, which decreases the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic and diminishes the potential for systemic toxicity. Decreased vascular perfusion also confines the local anesthetic at the injection site for a longer duration and potentiates the depth and duration of anesthesia [3]. Because epinephrine is a catecholamine and can increase heart rate and blood pressure, its use in cardiac and hypertensive patients should be minimized or, in some circumstances, avoided completely. Lidocaine and all local anesthetics that contain epinephrine also include the preservative sodium bisulfite. This substance is added to delay the oxidation of epinephrine, which would cause its deterioration. Patients with allergies to sulfites may have reactions to this component and should not be administered local anesthetics containing epinephrine and the accompanying preservative [3].
Lidocaine is compatible with most prescribed medications. However, cimetidine, propranolol, and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) can decrease the clearance of this local anesthetic [4].
Bupivacaine is a very potent local anesthetic available in 0.5% concentration, as opposed to lidocaine, which is generally produced in a 2% concentration [5]. The onset of anesthesia is approximately 10 minutes; however, the duration of soft tissue anesthesia can extend up to 12 hours [5].
Among all local anesthetics, bupivacaine demonstrates the highest ability to bind to proteins within the sodium channels of the neurons that are responsible for the conduction of nerve impulses [6]. This strong affinity extends the time during which the normal inflow and outflow of sodium through these channels is prevented and the usual propagation of the action potential along the neuron is blocked. Bupivacaine is combined with epinephrine in a 1:200,000 concentration [7].
The extended duration of soft tissue anesthesia makes bupivacaine an excellent anesthetic for surgical cases. Pulpal anesthesia can extend to three hours, so bupivacaine is ideal for lengthy restorative procedures. Some clinicians have used bupivacaine at the conclusion of oral or periodontal surgery to extend the duration of anesthesia and to allow time for prescribed analgesics to become effective before the anesthetic effect dissipates.
This is not the anesthetic of choice for short restorative procedures in adults or for pediatric patients [7]. Pediatric procedures are usually accomplished quickly, which negates the need for prolonged anesthesia. The extended duration of soft tissue anesthesia can also increase the risk of self-inflicted injury from biting anesthetized tissue. Therefore, bupivacaine should be avoided in patients with cognitive impairment or mental disabilities for whom instructions to avoid traumatizing the anesthetized tissues may be difficult to comprehend [7]. Similarly, patients with neuromuscular diseases such as Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis may be unable to control movements of the oral tissues and teeth even without the influence of a local anesthetic. The induction of a prolonged state of local anesthesia with bupivacaine in these patients could enhance the potential of self-inflicted soft tissue injury. A local anesthetic of short duration would be more appropriate.
Articaine (4%) was developed in Europe in 1969, but it has only been used in the United States since 2000 [8]. The original formulation of articaine included the preservative methylparaben, which had been removed from all anesthetic cartridges in North America. The concern with the potential allergic response to methylparaben delayed the distribution of articaine in the United States until another preservative (sodium metabisulfite) was substituted [8]. This is the only amide-type local anesthetic with an ester group within its chemical composition. This allows the amide portion to be metabolized in the liver while the ester portion is metabolized by plasma esterases [7,9]. The onset of action is rapid, at one to two minutes for infiltration anesthesia and one to three minutes for a mandibular (inferior alveolar nerve) block. Unlike other local anesthetics, articaine has a sulfur-containing thiophene ring, which confers upon it a higher degree of lipid solubility and a more rapid absorption by the nerve membrane [3]. Some clinicians have claimed that buccal infiltration with articaine on maxillary teeth provides palatal anesthesia without any further independent injection of the palatal tissues [10]. However, controlled studies have offered differing opinions on its ability to do so [11,12,13]. Soft tissue anesthesia extends for three to six hours for articaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine or two to three hours when a 1:200,000 concentration of epinephrine is utilized. Pulpal anesthesia lasts for 75 minutes with the higher epinephrine concentration and for approximately one hour when the lesser concentration is used.
There is some concern that the use of articaine may result in damage to the nerves being anesthetized, especially the inferior alveolar and lingual nerves of the mandible. A retrospective study in the United States did not duplicate studies from Canada and Denmark that suggested an increase in the incidence of nerve-related injuries after the administration of articaine [14]. Specifically, the international studies indicated an increased risk of paresthesia within tissues previously anesthetized with articaine. Paresthesia is characterized by burning, tingling, or occasional sharp pain, the duration of which can be variable. However, a direct cause and effect relationship has not been established between articaine and paresthesia [15]. It has been suggested that the condition may develop when the needle from an anesthetic syringe contacts a nerve directly, as the problem has not developed when infiltration anesthetic techniques are utilized. It has also been attributed to the use of articaine following the administration of a nerve block injection [16]. Clinicians who use articaine should remain abreast of the research regarding this issue.
Mepivacaine (3%) does not share the vasodilating qualities of other local anesthetics, so its formulation does not contain epinephrine or the associated preservative sodium bisulfite. Thus, dental professionals treating patients with sulfite allergies or for whom epinephrine should be avoided may find mepivacaine suitable for their anesthetic needs, pending no other contraindications [3]. It is not an ideal choice for longer procedures, as pulpal anesthesia is only maintained for 20 minutes when mepivacaine is infiltrated or 40 minutes when an inferior alveolar nerve block is used. Soft tissue anesthesia can linger for two to three hours [17]. Mepivacaine is best utilized for shorter restorative appointments, pediatric patients, and patients with an increased risk of accidental self-inflicted trauma in anesthetized tissues.
Like many of the other local anesthetics, prilocaine (4%) is often combined with epinephrine to improve its efficacy and extend its duration of action. With the addition of 1:200,000 epinephrine, pulpal anesthesia can last about 1.5 hours, while soft tissue anesthesia can linger for up to 8 hours [9]. These durations are suitable for procedures of intermediate lengths and for the prolonged anesthesia necessary after surgical procedures.
Without epinephrine, prilocaine is best utilized for shorter procedures. With prilocaine alone, pulpal anesthesia extends about 15 minutes with an infiltration technique and 60 minutes when a nerve block is used [9]. When the same injection techniques are used, soft tissue anesthesia lasts for two or four hours, respectively. Because prilocaine is supplied as a 4% solution, about twice the amount of anesthetic molecules will reach the neurons when compared to lidocaine or mepivacaine. However, one anesthetic cartridge of 4% prilocaine is also more toxic then either lidocaine or mepivacaine, and fewer cartridges of prilocaine may be used before systemic toxicity ensues.
The use of prilocaine has also been linked to the development of methemoglobinemia as a result of its metabolism into o-toluidine [18,19]. Methemoglobinemia occurs when red blood cells contain more than 1% methemoglobin, with resulting headache, fatigue, and bluish coloring of the skin. Doses of up to 600 mg are generally considered safe, but methemoglobinemia can develop with lower doses in some patients [19].
The frequent use of local anesthetics in dentistry should not instill a sense of complacency with their use. These drugs are capable of causing deleterious systemic reactions. Allergic reactions to the amide type of local anesthetics are possible, but rare. Inadvertent intravascular injections can cause seizures and even cardiovascular collapse. Package inserts included with local anesthetics advise clinicians of these potential problems and the need for the dental staff to be adequately trained to treat patients who experience medical emergencies resulting from the use of a local anesthetic.
Vasovagal syncope (fainting) remains the most frequent medical emergency in dental offices. Some of these episodes occur because of the fear and psychogenic response that many patients harbor toward dental treatment, especially injections [7]. This possibility should be considered for patients being administered a local anesthetic.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has assigned risk categories to all medications for their potential to cause birth defects in the developing fetus. While these categories can be a guide to the choice of a local anesthetic for pregnant patients, it would be prudent to consult with the patient's obstetrician prior to the use of any local anesthetic. All clinicians should have a thorough knowledge of the patient's current medical history before the initiation of any dental treatment, the injection of any local anesthetic, or the dispensation of any prescribed medication.
State laws vary as to the degree of staff training and the type of emergency supplies that are necessary to address medical emergencies in the dental setting. Many states require dental offices to have an automated external defibrillator (AED) and for staff to be trained in its proper use. All dental offices should have periodic mock emergency drills in which each staff member is assigned a role to assume during a real medical emergency. The ability to use portable oxygen tanks and to retrieve and use the appropriate supplies from a medical emergency kit should be a part of the training for medical emergencies. The staff has the responsibility of treating the patient until emergency medical services arrive.
The relief of pain in dentistry is usually associated with short-term situations, such as the initiation or exacerbation of pain from teeth with carious pulpal involvement, postsurgical pain, or postendodontic procedure pain. This pain can be treated with a wide variety of analgesic medications. This section will highlight the most commonly used analgesics in dentistry, their indications and contraindications, and the most frequent interactions with other medications. The dosage and frequency of administration of any medication should be determined by the individual clinician, taking into consideration a patient's history, age, weight, systemic illnesses, and use of other medications. These factors can influence the distribution, absorption, metabolism, and excretion of medications, and clinicians may need to consult the patient's physician if a complex medical history complicates their ability to prescribe routine medications.
Acetaminophen was first approved for use by the FDA in 1951, and it is both an analgesic and antipyretic (fever reducer) [20]. It is used in dentistry for the treatment of mild-to-moderate pain and can be dispensed by itself or in combination with narcotic medications such as codeine, hydrocodone, or oxycodone. This analgesic works by decreasing the synthesis of prostaglandins, chemical mediators of inflammation and pain, in the central nervous system and by peripherally blocking the generation of pain impulses. Because the primary metabolism of acetaminophen occurs in the liver, patients with impaired liver function can have difficulty metabolizing this medication properly and can cause further damage to the hepatocytes (liver cells) by ingesting even small doses. The use of alcohol can exacerbate the hepatotoxic potential of acetaminophen, and therefore it should not be consumed concurrently with this medication. Concomitant use of carbamazepine, isoniazid, and rifampin can increase the hepatotoxic potential of acetaminophen [18].
However, acetaminophen does have advantages over some other analgesics. It is better tolerated in some patients, with fewer gastrointestinal side effects compared to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Acetaminophen is also safe to take with antihypertensive drugs, unlike long-term NSAID use, which decreases the efficacy of these medications.
Ibuprofen is an over-the-counter NSAID that was originally approved by the FDA in 1974. It is available both by itself and in combination with a narcotic such as hydrocodone [18,21]. Ibuprofen's mechanism of action is based on the inhibition of the enzyme cyclo-oxygenase, which converts arachidonic acid to the progenitor prostaglandin H2, from which several other prostaglandins are formed [18]. It is used for mild-to-moderate pain associated with dental treatment or odontogenic causes.
Ibuprofen can have deleterious effects on the gastrointestinal tract and can increase the risk of gastrointestinal irritation, ulceration, bleeding, or perforation [18]. Renal function can also be compromised.
Ibuprofen is associated with several drug interactions, some of which can be dangerous. The clearance of lithium, a medication used to treat bipolar disorders, can be reduced by simultaneous use of ibuprofen. The efficacy of medications used to treat hypertension, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers, and diuretics (e.g., hydrochlorothiazide), can be decreased by the extended use of ibuprofen. The anticoagulant effects of warfarin and the antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel can be enhanced by the simultaneous use of ibuprofen, with the potential for internal bleeding. Although it is available over-the-counter, ibuprofen is contraindicated in the last trimester of pregnancy as it may cause closure of fetal ductus arteriosus, fetal renal damage, inhibited clotting, and delayed labor and birth [18].
Originally a prescription medication, naproxen was approved by the FDA for over-the-counter use in 1994 [22]. It is available in formulations as naproxen base or naproxen sodium, with 200 mg of the base form equivalent to 220 mg of the sodium form [7]. The maximum allowable dose of naproxen base is 1,250 mg per day [18]. It is generally prescribed for mild-to-moderate pain associated with dental procedures or from an odontogenic origin. The extended analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects of naproxen can reduce the frequency of administration of this medication.
Categorized as an NSAID, naproxen's mechanism of action against prostaglandin synthesis is similar to that of ibuprofen. As such, potential drug-drug interactions with lithium, ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, and hydrochlorothiazide are the same as those described for ibuprofen. The potential to enhance the effects of warfarin and clopidogrel is also a concern, especially for dental patients who cannot discontinue these medications prior to oral surgery.
Gastrointestinal and renal side effects are another concern. An enteric-coated version of naproxen is available that can alleviate, but not eliminate, the potential for gastrointestinal irritation.
Opioids are a class of analgesic medications prescribed for the relief of mild-to-severe pain. In dentistry, oral or periodontal surgery, orthognathic surgery, endodontic procedures, and oral and maxillofacial trauma are among the situations for which opioid analgesics may be prescribed. The acute pain associated with these procedures and problems is generally of a short duration, with a commensurate schedule for the administration of these medications. However, even short-term use of opioid analgesics can cause complications such as respiratory depression, constipation, dizziness, and sedation [23]. Physical dependence, tolerance, and withdrawal symptoms may develop with extended use. Due diligence must be utilized when these medications are prescribed because of the potential for addiction. Opioid analgesics act by mimicking the naturally occurring endogenous opioid peptides or endorphins in the brain [23].
Codeine is a prototype opioid medication. When used in dentistry, it is most frequently combined with acetaminophen and less frequently with aspirin or ibuprofen. When used in combination with acetaminophen the amount of codeine per tablet can vary from 7.5 mg to 60 mg [18]. This medication is used for mild-to-moderate pain of odontogenic or postprocedural origin. About 10% of codeine is converted to the active metabolite of morphine [23]. The remaining significant metabolites of codeine are codeine-6-glucuronide (70%), norcodeine (10%), and hydromorphone (1%) [18,24]. Codeine's active metabolite of morphine can be transmitted through breast milk in levels great enough to cause potentially fatal respiratory depression in infants [18]. Respiratory depression among opioid medications is dose-related and a potentially serious adverse effect. The respiratory depression and sedative effects of codeine can be enhanced by alcohol or other medications, in some cases resulting in profound sedation. Clinicians who prescribe opioid medications should first obtain a thorough patient history, particularly a list of other medications currently being taken by the patient that could potentiate these reactions. This includes over-the-counter medications and herbal supplements. Some herbal medications, such as kava kava and St. John's wort, have sedating qualities that can work synergistically with those of codeine or any opioid.
Aside from physicians, dentists are the most frequent prescribers of immediate-release opioids such as codeine, hydrocodone, and oxycodone [25]. While most patients use these for the analgesic purpose for which they are intended, abuse of prescribed opioid medications is increasing at a significant rate. It is essential that all clinicians prescribe these medications in a responsible fashion [26].
A web-based survey of dentists was conducted to assess their pain management prescribing practices and risk mitigation strategies, including risk screening, prescription drug monitoring program (PDMP) use, and patient education [27]. Of the 822 dentists who completed the survey, a minority reported prescribing opioids alone or in combination with an NSAID or acetaminophen (11% and 18%, respectively). The respondents also reported that 50% or more of their patients required acute pain management, yet most dentists reported infrequent PDMP use and patient counseling regarding risks, storage, and disposal of opioids. Higher levels of opioid prescribing were associated with less consistent risk mitigation implementation and patient education [27]. In a separate survey of 87 dental practitioners, 75.8% reported prescribing opioids; 44% reported regularly screening patients for current prescription drug misuse; 5.8% reported requesting prior medical records; 38% reported ever accessing a PDMP; and 4.7% consistently used a PDMP [28].
Hydrocodone was approved for use in the United States by the FDA in 1943. This semi-synthetic opioid can be derived from either codeine or thebaine, each a naturally occurring opiate [29]. It is used for the treatment of moderate-to-severe pain and is stronger than codeine but not as potent as morphine. For dental use, it is usually combined with either acetaminophen or ibuprofen. There are numerous brand name and generic versions of hydrocodone/acetaminophen formulations.
Hydrocodone is a central nervous system depressant and must not be taken with alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, or any other medication(s) that can cause central nervous system depression; concurrent use may result in respiratory compromise, sedation, or coma. Because acetaminophen is metabolized solely by the liver, there is a risk for liver damage or failure with this combination. The simultaneous use of alcohol with this compound can increase the hepatotoxic potential [18].
Among the most common adverse effects associated with hydrocodone are dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, and vomiting [18]. The potential for abuse, physical dependence, addiction, and withdrawal symptoms is also a concern. This medication should be prescribed for the shortest duration possible and should not be utilized for patients who have had opioid dependence problems in the past. Alternative analgesics such as those in the NSAID category should be considered first.
Oxycodone is another opioid used for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acute pain among dental patients. It can be combined with aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen. Oxycodone binds with opioid receptors in the cerebral cortex, causing a decrease in the synaptic transmissions throughout the central nervous system and blocking pain signals [7]. Oral oxycodone is quickly absorbed systemically and reaches peak plasma levels approximately one hour after administration [30]. Relief of pain can begin as quickly as 15 minutes after oral administration [18,31].
Oxycodone is reserved for patients who have had extensive surgical procedures or severe oral and maxillofacial trauma, as it is 1.5 to 2 times as potent as morphine in oral form [29]. Physical and psychologic dependence can develop, so it should be used for the shortest duration possible. The most common side effects of oxycodone use are nausea, vomiting, constipation, xerostomia, dizziness, and confusion. The simultaneous use of antidepressants, antihistamines, muscle relaxants, sedatives, and other narcotics can potentiate the sedative effects of oxycodone. Withdrawal symptoms can precipitate a medical emergency.
Although the use of local anesthetics and analgesics in dentistry has been critical in providing comfort and alleviating the aftermath of pain associated with many dental procedures and dental pathologies, antibiotics are also essential for the practice of dentistry. The oral environment is composed of hundreds of bacterial species, most of which do not assume a pathologic role. However, dental caries and periodontal disease both have bacterial etiologies. Bacterial contamination of the dental pulp can extend into the alveolar bone and the adjacent soft tissue. Bacteria within periodontal pockets can also cause infections in the surrounding soft tissue.
Antibiotics are a means by which oral bacterial infections can be managed, so definitive therapy can be completed to eliminate the source of the infection. Prescribing antibiotics must be done in a responsible fashion, as the imprudent use of these medications has caused multiple strains of bacteria to become resistant to several conventional antibiotics. The potential for allergic reactions, gastrointestinal upset, and drug-drug interactions also support the need for a judicious approach to the use of these medications.
This section will only address the oral preparations of the most common antibiotics; a full discussion of all available antibiotics is beyond the scope of this course. As always, it is up to the independent clinical judgment of the practicing clinician to determine which antibiotic is compatible with a patient's medical history, is appropriate for the extent and virulence of the existing infection, and is compatible with any other medications utilized by the patient.
Originally noted by a French medical student in 1896 and rediscovered by Sir Alexander Fleming in 1928, it was not until the 1940s that penicillin became commercially available in the United States [32]. Chemically, penicillin and its derivatives all share a similar structure, including a beta-lactam ring; this structure is also the core of cephalosporin and monobactam antibiotics. Penicillins remain the antibiotic of choice for orofacial infections caused by aerobic, gram-positive streptococci and anaerobes. The bactericidal effect of penicillin is derived from its ability to interfere with the synthesis of components of the bacterial cell wall. The resultant decrease in the tensile strength of the bacterial cell wall causes weakening and cell rupture through osmotic lysis.
Penicillin is compatible with most medications, with a few noteworthy exceptions. The anticoagulant effects of warfarin may be increased with the simultaneous use of penicillin, potentially leading to coagulation difficulties. This could be a concern for patients who cannot discontinue warfarin prior to oral surgery and who are prescribed penicillin to treat or prevent odontogenic infection. In addition, the efficacy of oral contraceptives may be decreased in patients taking penicillin [18]. An alternative means of contraception or an alternative antibiotic is necessary for these women. Probenecid, which is used to treat hyperuricemia associated with gout or gouty arthritis, can decrease the excretion of penicillin and cause the plasma levels of the drug to rise [7].
Penicillins are generally well-tolerated medications, but up to 10% of the population is documented to have an allergy to this class of antibiotics [33]. Long-term use has also led to the resistance in several strains of bacteria. These bacterial species can produce a substance called beta-lactamase, which breaks the beta-lactam ring and renders penicillin useless.
Side effects of penicillin are usually gastrointestinal and can include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Because penicillin decreases a portion of the oral microbial population, competitive inhibition among the remaining microbes decreases. This can result in the development of opportunistic infections such as oral and/or vaginal candidiasis. In these cases, antifungal medications may be required to alleviate the problem. Probiotics have been suggested as a possible preventive option for candidiasis in patients taking antibiotics [34]. More research into the efficacy of probiotics is necessary, but initial studies are promising.
The addition of one amine group and one hydroxyl group and the deletion of one oxygen molecule is all that differentiates amoxicillin from penicillin V [35]. The addition of the hydroxyl group allows for amoxicillin to be absorbed faster than penicillin V, with more diffuse distribution through infected tissue and organic fluids. Food will not delay the absorption of amoxicillin, as it does with other penicillin medications [36]. This improvement has resulted in amoxicillin replacing penicillin as the antibiotic of choice for prophylaxis of bacterial endocarditis. Compared with penicillin V, amoxicillin has a broader spectrum of microbial activity.
Adverse drug interactions associated with amoxicillin parallel those of penicillin. Additionally, the simultaneous use of allopurinol in patients treated for gout can increase the potential for the development of a rash [18].
Potential side effects are similar to those described for penicillin; however, gastrointestinal problems can be more severe and can even include the development of hemorrhagic or pseudomembranous colitis [18]. Patients who are allergic to penicillin will also experience reactions to amoxicillin.
Although penicillin and amoxicillin are good empiric choices for the treatment of many oral and maxillofacial infections, these medications do not always resolve the infection. Due to developed resistance or natural defenses, many bacteria produce beta-lactamase, making treatment with a penicillin ineffective. The addition of clavulanic acid addresses this issue.
Alone, clavulanic acid has low antibacterial activity. However, when combined with amoxicillin, it extends the spectrum of bactericidal activity to include organisms that produce beta-lactamase. Infections that do not resolve with this medication generally require another class of antibiotic medications altogether. Available under the brand name Augmentin or Amoclan, this combination can be prescribed in various dosage forms, including an 875 mg tablet taken once every 12 hours [18]. Possible interactions and side effects are the same as for those of amoxicillin, with the additional concern of clavulanic acid allergy.
Cephalexin is a semi-synthetic medication that shares the beta-lactam structure of both penicillin and amoxicillin. Cephalexin and other first-generation cephalosporins are less susceptible to beta-lactamase as compared to penicillin and amoxicillin and provide reasonable coverage against pathogenic oral flora [37]. It is most effective against aerobic, gram-positive bacteria. First introduced in 1967, cephalexin remains among the most frequently prescribed antibiotics in North America [38]. It can be utilized as antibiotic prophylaxis for bacterial endocarditis for those allergic to amoxicillin or clindamycin. Patients who are allergic to penicillin have a potential cross-reactivity to cephalexin. In particular, if the reaction to penicillin was immediate and anaphylactic, there is a 20% chance that there will be a cross reactivity between these two medications; in these cases, cephalexin is absolutely contraindicated [7]. If the reaction to penicillin had a delayed onset, the risk that the patient is also allergic to cephalexin is only 1%.
The most common adverse effects are similar to those described for penicillin and amoxicillin. Additionally, central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, confusion, and fatigue can occur [18]. A unique drug interaction not seen with other beta-lactam antibiotics is seen with cephalexin and the oral hypoglycemic medication metformin, commonly used in patients with type 2 diabetes. The simultaneous use of these drugs can decrease the renal clearance of metformin, thereby increasing its plasma concentration. This can result in a decrease in blood glucose levels to a range that could precipitate a hypoglycemic crisis, especially if the patient has not eaten [18].
Cefuroxime is a second-generation cephalosporin used in the treatment of susceptible dental infections. Unlike the first-generation cephalosporins, the second-generation medications have improved efficacy against certain anaerobes. Cefuroxime is a drug of choice for the treatment of Lyme disease [18]. Although FDA approved for the treatment of uncomplicated and disseminated gonococcal infections, clinical practice guidelines do not recommend cefuroxime for the treatment of gonorrhea because of widespread resistance, inferior efficacy, and less favorable pharmacodynamics [18,28]. Possible side effects include diarrhea, vaginitis, nausea/vomiting, and eosinophilia. When taken concurrently, cefuroxime diminishes the therapeutic effect of the antitubercular vaccine bacille Calmette-Guérin; these therapies should never be administered at the same time [18].
The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) recommend minimizing the frequency and duration of high-risk antibiotic therapy and the number of antibiotic agents prescribed, to reduce Clostridium difficile infection risk.
(https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/66/7/e1/4855916 Last Accessed: August 20, 2018)
Strength of Recommendation/Level of Evidence: Strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence
Clindamycin is a derivative of lincomycin and acts to inhibit bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 50S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) subunit of susceptible bacteria; thus, it is bacteriostatic rather than bactericidal [18,39]. Clindamycin is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed effectively to most tissues. It is actively transported into macrophages and leukocytes, both of which are highly concentrated in abscesses [40]. It has become the antibiotic of choice for prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis for patients who cannot take amoxicillin [18].
It is also used in the treatment of orofacial infections that are not resolved with beta-lactam antibiotics, especially orofacial infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria [41]. The most significant adverse effect of clindamycin is the development of pseudomembranous colitis, which is caused by the overgrowth of Clostridium difficile, a component of the gastrointestinal flora that is resistant to clindamycin [18]. The development of this condition can be potentially lethal, so immediate medical attention is required and patients with a history of colitis should not take this medication [18]. Clindamycin may extend the effect of neuromuscular blocking drugs such as tubocurarine and pancuronium [18].
Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic derived from erythromycin. For many years, erythromycin was the antibiotic of choice for prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis. However, gastrointestinal side effects, bacterial resistance, and interactions with several medications have led to erythromycin being used sparingly in the dental setting and discontinued in the antibiotic prophylaxis of bacterial endocarditis, except in certain patients at high risk for adverse outcomes [18].
Azithromycin is a bacteriostatic antibiotic that inhibits protein synthesis in susceptible bacteria. It is an alternative antibiotic for some patients with orofacial infections who cannot take beta-lactam antibiotics or clindamycin, and it is also an approved antibiotic for the prevention of bacterial endocarditis. Nausea, cramping, and vomiting are among the most common side effects associated with azithromycin. It also has potential to interact with several other medications. Azithromycin can decrease the metabolism and increase the anticoagulant effect of warfarin. Antacids taken concurrently can bind with azithromycin and prevent its absorption. Azithromycin may also interfere with the efficacy of oral contraceptive medications, so an alternative form of contraception is required for its duration [18].
Tetracyclines are generally not used in the treatment of acute orofacial infections or for prophylaxis of bacterial endocarditis. Instead, formulations of tetracycline are used as pharmacologic adjuncts in the definitive treatment of periodontal disease.
The decision to use antibiotics as adjunctive treatment for periodontal disease depends upon the patient's medical history and the extent of the periodontal disease. Patients should be informed that these medications are not substitutes for good oral hygiene, recall appointments, root planing and curettage, or periodontal surgery. The most common tetracyclines used in the treatment of periodontal disease are tetracycline, doxycycline, and minocycline. The benefits accrued through these medications extend beyond their bacteriostatic effect. They reduce inflammation and reduce matrix metalloproteinases such as collagenase, a protein that is associated with periodontal pathogens that damages connective tissue and bone [42].
Tetracycline can be administered systemically or locally [43]. Doxycycline is also available in different formulations developed for various delivery systems. A systemic but subantimicrobial dose of doxycycline (20 mg) may be used as an adjunctive treatment for periodontal disease. At a dose of 20 mg, the therapeutic benefit is anticollegenase and anti-inflammatory rather than antibacterial, allowing the medication to be used daily for several months without the risk of developing resistance [44]. Doxycycline is also available in a controlled-release 10% gel formulation applied into periodontal pockets. This application is active for more than 21 days, and it is completely bioabsorbable, so no removal is required [18].
Minocycline is most frequently administered via a local subgingival delivery system. It is supplied in unit dose cartridges, with 1 mg of minocycline base per cartridge [18,45]. The minocycline dose is incorporated into a bioresorbable polymer, which is then placed into the periodontal pocket, where the therapeutic minocycline concentrations are maintained for 21 days.
Each clinician must decide which tetracycline, if any, is appropriate for their patients. Periodontal disease can be refractory to conventional forms of definitive treatment with or without adjunctive pharmacotherapeutic support, and referral to a periodontist may be required.
One of the most notable side effects of tetracycline and its derivatives is irreversible staining of the developing permanent teeth. Therefore, tetracyclines should not be taken by women who are pregnant or nursing or children 8 years of age or younger [18]. As with the other antibiotics, drug interactions include an increase in the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and decreased efficacy of oral contraceptives.
Antifungal medications are prescribed much less frequently in dentistry than conventional antibiotics or analgesics. However, each clinician should have a familiarity with the most common antifungal medications and indications for their use.
In dental patients, antifungals are mainly used to treat oral candidiasis, an infection that can develop secondary to various underlying causes. Candida albicans is the primary fungal organism among the oral flora that proliferates to cause oral and pharyngeal candidiasis. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has listed oral candidiasis as an acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-defining illness [46]. An estimated 80% to 90% of patients with AIDS will develop oral candidiasis at some time during the progression of their disease [47]. In addition, patients taking oral antibiotics can develop an opportunistic case of oral candidiasis due to imbalances in the oral flora. Patients with other forms of immunosuppression, such as those taking chemotherapy, organ or bone marrow transplants recipients who require immunosuppressive medications for life, poorly controlled diabetics, and postradiotherapy oral cancer patients with a permanent reduction in salivary flow, are all susceptible to initial and recurring cases of oral candidiasis. This section will discuss the most common antifungal medications used to treat oral candidiasis. Some cases can be refractory to conventional oral antifungal medications and require more intensive treatment. Disseminated fungal infections among immunocompromised patients are associated with a high morbidity rate and even fatal termination. Oropharyngeal candidiasis that does not resolve with polyene or azole antifungal agents should be referred to a medical professional immediately.
Polyene antifungal medications such as nystatin act by combining with ergosterol, an important and unique constituent of the fungal cell membrane, to cause porosities in the membrane. This results in an outflow of the potassium ion and ultimately the death of the fungal organism [18]. Nystatin is most commonly prescribed as an oral suspension, dissolvable troches, or a topical ointment.
Typically, the adult dose of the oral suspension of nystatin for the treatment of oral candidiasis is 400,000–600,000 units four times every day [18,48]. A swish-and-swallow protocol is utilized, as fungal organisms that have extended toward the esophagus can be treated as the oral suspension is swallowed. This regimen is followed for an average of 7 to 10 days. Nystatin is also available as a dissolvable troche that contains 200,000–400,000 units of the drug, usually taken four to five times daily [18,48]. Patients using this formulation should be advised to remove any oral prosthesis to allow adequate contact between the oral mucosa and the dissolving troche. The ability of the nystatin troche to work properly depends on an adequate salivary medium, so any medication or condition that diminishes salivary gland output can decrease the efficacy of this formulation.
A topical ointment formulation of nystatin can be used to treat the mucocutaneous candidal infection angular cheilitis, which occurs at the corners of the mouth. The oral suspension and troche formulations will have inadequate access and contact time with this area. The topical version of nystatin can be combined with triamcinolone, a synthetic corticosteroid, to reduce the inflammation associated with this condition.
Nystatin formulations have high sugar content, so oral hygiene should be meticulous for the duration of its administration. Patients with diabetes should consult with their physician prior to its use. Because the oral suspension is not absorbed from the gastrointestinal mucosa, nystatin is not intended to be used for systemic fungal infections and usually will not interact with other medications. Side effects are generally mild and involve the gastrointestinal tract. A systemic antifungal agent should be considered if empiric therapy with nystatin does not resolve the initial fungal infection, as resistance to oral fungal organisms is a growing problem.
The successful treatment of oral candidiasis must also include the treatment of any oral prostheses in addition to the oral cavity. The acrylic of partial or complete dentures, orthodontic appliances, and night guards contain numerous microscopic porosities in which fungal organisms may reside. Without the elimination of this reservoir of fungal contaminants, a cycle of re-inoculation of the oral tissue can occur. The acrylic and metallic components of prostheses can vary considerably, so any substance designed to treat fungal organisms on appliances should follow manufacturers' guidelines.
Azole antifungal agents are used for systemic fungal infections in addition to localized treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis. These agents interact with enzymes necessary for the conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol. When this important fungal cell membrane constituent is lacking, increased fungal cell permeability causes the death of the fungal organism [40]. Azole antifungals used in dentistry include fluconazole, ketoconazole, and clotrimazole.
Fluconazole is available in both oral tablets and IV formulations, with oral administration most commonly used in the treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis. It is indicated to treat oral candidal infections that have not responded to nystatin, candidiasis in patients with impaired immunocompetence, or infections with suspicion of antifungal resistance. Fluconazole is well distributed to all tissues, and food does not preclude its absorption. If hepatic or renal problems exist, fluconazole can exacerbate these issues [18].
The most common side effects of fluconazole are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, headache, and dizziness. Fluconazole is taken once daily, and the duration of therapy and the strength of the prescribed dose will vary with the extent of fungal involvement and the patient's response to therapy. For typical, uncomplicated oropharyngeal candidiasis, the usual initial dose in adults is 100–200 mg daily for 7 to 14 days [7,48].
Many medications can interact adversely with fluconazole, and a discussion of all possible drug interactions is beyond the scope of this course; only the most common will be discussed here. Fluconazole can enhance the anticoagulant effect of warfarin, so patients' international normalized ratios should be monitored if these medications are used simultaneously. The serum concentration of calcium channel blockers, a class of medications used to treat hypertension, can rise when taken concurrently with fluconazole [18]. This can result in excessive reduction in blood pressure and hypotension. If neither medication can be changed, consult a physician to determine if a temporary dose reduction of the calcium channel blocker can be prescribed. In addition, the serum concentrations of anxiolytic medications such as triazolam and diazepam are increased with the concomitant use of fluconazole, which can result in excessive sedation [49]. Before fluconazole is prescribed, it is imperative that the clinician is aware of the potential interactions to medications the patient is already taking.
Like fluconazole, ketoconazole is a systemic antifungal medication that can also be used to treat oral candidiasis, but the pharmacodynamics of this medication are not as favorable as those of fluconazole. It is also available for a once daily dosing schedule at a dose of 200–400 mg, depending on the virulence of the fungal infection [18]. Ketoconazole depends on a high acidity level in the stomach for absorption, so onset of action will be delayed if antacids are used simultaneously. It has a high affinity for lipophilic tissues and accumulates in adipose tissue, which results in more toxic potential compared to fluconazole [18]. Patients with hepatic impairment should have the approval of their physician prior to the use of this medication.
There are numerous potential adverse interactions with other medications, many of which are identical to those noted for fluconazole. Additionally, the efficacy of oral contraceptives may be diminished with the concomitant use of ketoconazole. The macrolide antibiotics erythromycin and clarithromycin, which have occasional use for orofacial infections, can increase its serum concentration.
In 2013, the FDA limited the approved use of ketoconazole to certain fungal infections only when alternative antifungal medications are not available or tolerated [50]. This change was prompted by cases of severe liver injuries and adrenal gland problems in addition to potentially harmful drug interactions.
Clotrimazole is an azole antifungal available as a topical cream or troches. The troches, manufactured as a 10-mg dose, must be dissolved slowly in the mouth for the treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis, as there is no systemic absorption if it is swallowed [7]. The usual dose is four or five troches per day for up to 14 days, with the extent of the oral candidiasis dictating the cumulative daily dose and duration [18,48]. The troches contain a significant amount of sugar, so adherence to good oral hygiene practices should be emphasized while they are being used.
Clotrimazole is present in the saliva for several hours after its dissolution, as it is slowly released from the oral mucosa with which it initially binds. Patients who take any medication or have any condition that causes a reduction of salivary flow may be unable to use this medication properly and should consider an oral suspension of an another antifungal agent.
The side effects associated with clotrimazole are minor and consist of oral mucosal irritation and gastrointestinal upset. The lack of systemic absorption minimizes adverse interactions with other medications.
Diseases of viral origin span the spectrum in their virulence and associated degree of morbidity. All tissues and organ systems can be infected by viral organisms, with varying degrees of severity ranging from the annoyance of the common cold to the devastating immunosuppression caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Viral disease can be particularly difficult to treat, and many viral diseases are incurable. Antiviral medications are often used to manage the virulence of viral outbreaks affecting the oral and maxillofacial structures.
Acyclovir and valacyclovir are the most common antiviral medications used to treat viral pathologies of the oral and maxillofacial complex. Other antiviral medications, such as ganciclovir, penciclovir, and famciclovir, are used in some cases, and each has its own spectrum of activity, side effects, and drug interactions. While it is uncommon to use these medications in the routine practice of dentistry, clinicians should have a solid knowledge of the underlying problems for which these medications are prescribed as well as their side effects and drug interactions.
The most common oral lesion of viral origin, recurrent herpes labialis, is caused by a reactivation of the herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1), which can lie dormant for years in a regional nerve ganglion. Illness, sunlight, emotional stress, and immunosuppression are among the most common factors to trigger a reactivation of HSV-1 from dormancy. The classic presentation of herpes labialis is the development of small, fluid-filled vesicles laden with viral particles, usually at the mucocutaneous junction of the skin and lips. The vesicles fuse to form larger lesions that ulcerate, crust, and heal within two weeks in healthy patients. Patients with herpes can experience mild discomfort and malaise, but systemic involvement is rare. Immunosuppressed patients, such as those with HIV/AIDS, may experience a more virulent course, longer healing times, systemic involvement, and overlapping recurrent episodes of successive outbreaks with a lack of complete healing.
Unlike antibiotic or antifungal medications, which target the cell wall or cell membrane, acyclovir becomes incorporated into the viral DNA and prevents further viral replication. Acyclovir and its derivatives are highly selective for viral DNA, so collateral damage to the host mammalian cells is spared [37]. The bioavailability of oral acyclovir is low, ranging from 10% to 20% [18]. While oral and topical formulations are prescribed most frequently, intravenous acyclovir is also available for patients whose immunosuppression is conducive to a longer and more virulent HSV-1 course. The topical form of acyclovir decreases viral shedding and can be applied directly to the lesion with a special applicator. Patients should be advised to avoid direct contact between the fingertips and the viral lesions. Viral inoculation of the finger can result in the development of recurrent herpetic outbreaks of the finger known as herpetic whitlow. Oral acyclovir is taken in either 200- or 400-mg doses three to five times per day [7]. The duration of treatment is determined by the extent of viral involvement. The medication may also be used to suppress future outbreaks.
Possible side effects of oral acyclovir include abdominal cramping, nausea, and vomiting. Simultaneous use of the antiviral medication zidovudine, which is used to treat HIV/AIDS patients, or probenecid, used to treat gout, can lead to adverse central nervous system effects [7].
Oral acyclovir may also be used to treat oral hairy leukoplakia, characterized by bilateral lesions on the lateral surfaces of the tongue. These corrugated white lesions are painless and fixed to the underlying tissue and arise as a result of reactivation of the Epstein-Barr virus in immunosuppressed patients. These lesions will regress with acyclovir therapy but often return upon its cessation.
Acyclovir can also be used for the treatment of the oral and cutaneous lesions caused by the reactivation of varicella zoster virus, also known as shingles [18]. Varicella zoster virus is the etiologic agent of chickenpox in children and young adults, and after this initial infection, the virus migrates to a cranial nerve or dorsal root ganglia, where it remains dormant until reactivation (often decades later). Immunosuppression, physical conditions or trauma, and emotional stress can prompt the reactivation of varicella zoster virus, causing shingles. Shingles lesions are usually found on the skin of the back, stomach, chest, or buttocks, but some may be facial or intraoral. In the oral and maxillofacial complex, lesions follow the distribution of the divisions of the facial and the trigeminal nerves and have a protracted course compared to recurrent herpes labialis.
The dosage and the route of administration of acyclovir for shingles is commensurate with the severity of the outbreak, with some cases in need of intravenous acyclovir. These patients are usually managed by a physician.
Valacyclovir is an ester of acyclovir and is converted to acyclovir in the liver and gastrointestinal tract [18]. It is only available in an oral formulation and is predominantly used to treat infections caused by the herpes simplex viruses, with limited activity against Epstein-Barr virus. It has much higher bioavailability (55%) compared to acyclovir [18].
The adverse drug interactions and gastrointestinal side effects of valacyclovir are similar to those of acyclovir. Caution should be exercised if this medication is used in immunocompromised patients, as rare but serious adverse incidents, such as thrombocytopenic purpura or hemolytic uremic syndrome, can occur [7,18]. Consult a physician if this medication is to be used for patients who are immunosuppressed, as an alternative antiviral medication may be required.
Even in the modern era of dentistry, many people harbor conscious and subconscious fears of dental treatment and seek dental care only when an emergency occurs. These fears are exacerbated for patients with anxiety disorders and those who experience panic attacks in stressful situations. Previous negative experiences during dental treatment, fear of injections, dislike of the sight and sounds of varied dental handpieces (e.g., drills) and instruments, and the fear of pain are among the many reasons individuals may fear dental treatment.
Dental professionals may administer anxiolytic medications to calm patients and reduce the anxiety and fear associated with dental treatment. This section will highlight some of the most common oral and inhaled anxiolytic medications used by general dentists. Intravenous sedation and general anesthesia used by oral surgeons and for dental procedures performed in a hospital setting are beyond the scope of this discussion.
State regulations vary as to the type and combination of anxiolytic medications that can be used for each patient. Sedation at any level is associated with certain risks, including respiratory depression and allergic reactions, and clinicians who use any of these medications must be capable of managing emergency situations that develop pursuant to their use. Emergency training for all staff members is essential. State laws also vary as to the level of vital sign monitoring and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training required for dentists and staff members. Used properly, anxiolytic medications can be an excellent adjunct in the treatment of dental patients, but their risks, side effects, and interactions with other medications should be considered before their use.
Diazepam was the second benzodiazepine medication ever developed, first becoming available in 1963. Today, it is one of the core medications in the World Health Organization's Model List of Essential Medicines [51]. The bioavailability after oral administration is 90%, and peak plasma levels occur 15 minutes to 2.5 hours after oral administration, allowing for a rapid onset of action [18]. When used as an anxiolytic medication before dental treatment, it may be taken both the night prior and one hour before the appointment. The dose depends upon the degree of anxiety, the patient's weight, concurrent use of other medications, and pertinent factors in the patient's medical history. The degree of sedation varies among individuals, so patients should not drive to or from their dental appointments if this drug is used. Diazepam has a lengthy half-life of 44 to 48 hours; the half-life of its active major metabolite, desmethyldiazepam, is 100 hours [18]. This extended half-life results in a protracted period of varying degrees of sedation, and any activity that would endanger the patient during this interval (e.g., operating heavy machinery) should be avoided.
Among the most common medical conditions that preclude the use of diazepam for sedation are severe respiratory disorders, alcohol or drug dependence, liver disorders, and renal disorders [18]. Hepatic pathologies such as hepatitis and cirrhosis impede the metabolism of diazepam and can allow accrual of the drug, causing excessive sedation and potential toxic accumulation. Similarly, renal impairment can decrease the excretion of diazepam and allow serum drug levels to remain high. Gastrointestinal side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, and constipation, can occur. Possible adverse central nervous system effects include amnesia, confusion, excessive sedation, and paradoxical excitement [18].
Diazepam has the potential for many adverse interactions with other medications, including some medications prescribed for oral health issues. Diazepam increases the depressive effect of narcotic analgesics and can exacerbate respiratory depression [18]. Simultaneous use of ketoconazole can decrease the elimination of diazepam and prolong its effect [52]. Patients who consume alcoholic beverages while taking diazepam can experience advanced sedation and hypotension. Before diazepam is administered for anxiolytic purposes, patients should be informed of its potential side effects and adverse medication interactions.
Triazolam, also a benzodiazepine drug, has been available in the United States since 1982. Triazolam has a rapid onset of action and a significantly shorter half-life (two to five hours) compared to diazepam. Therefore, there is a decreased potential for protracted sedation with this medication [18]. Triazolam can be administered sublingually the night before a dental appointment to promote good sleep and one hour before the appointment for anxiolytic purposes, although this use is off label [7]. The usual dose is 0.25 mg, with a maximum cumulative dose of 0.5 mg/day [18]. Unlike diazepam, triazolam has no active metabolites and does not cause extended sedation. In fact, the sedative effect of an initial dose of triazolam may not be sufficient for longer appointments. However, extreme caution must be used in the administration of additional doses of this medication. At least 90 minutes should elapse before even the lowest second dose (0.125 mg) is provided [53]. Given the variability in action among patients based on the degree of anxiety, weight, and medical history, excess sedation can occur in some patients even before the maximum cumulative dose is reached. The lowest possible initial and cumulative doses necessary to attain the desired sedative effect should be used.
Possible side effects of triazolam use include nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, dizziness, and in some cases, psychiatric disturbances [18]. Many medications have problematic interactions with triazolam, including drugs regularly used in dental care. Azole antifungal medications such as ketoconazole and antibiotics such as erythromycin can increase the blood plasma levels and effects of triazolam. Simultaneous use of narcotic analgesics and triazolam can cause enhanced respiratory depression. Hepatic impairment can decrease the metabolism of triazolam, while renal problems can decrease its excretion, both of which can cause increased plasma drug levels and enhanced sedation.
Lorazepam has poor solubility in lipids, and its more hydrophilic nature accounts for its onset of action after oral administration [18]. It has a half-life of approximately 10 to 20 hours in adults, which makes its duration of action shorter than diazepam but longer than triazolam [54]. Compared with other members of the benzodiazepine group, lorazepam can produce better amnesic effects, but the extended length of sedation may be undesirable for patients. It can be administered the night before a dental appointment to promote sleep and two hours before the dental appointment to reduce anxiety. As with all anxiolytic medications, a responsible driver should transport the sedated patient to and from the dental appointment.
Interactions between lorazepam and other medications prescribed for oral health concerns can occur. As described for the other benzodiazepines, the concomitant use of narcotic analgesics can enhance respiratory depression. The potential drug interactions associated with lorazepam are numerous and beyond the scope of dental practice. If questions regarding appropriate use arise, a physician should be consulted. When lorazepam is used as a short-term anxiolytic for dental treatment, the side effects are usually confined to gastrointestinal upset. However, patients must be monitored carefully, as excessive sedation may occur with anxiolytic doses.
Nitrous oxide was first used in dentistry in the 1840s to minimize the discomfort patients experienced during the extraction of teeth [55]. While this formulation was comprised entirely of nitrous oxide without oxygen, it is the forerunner of the modern nitrous oxide/oxygen systems used today.
Also known as "laughing gas" or "sweet air," nitrous oxide/oxygen is used for its anesthetic and analgesic effects. Whether used alone or combined with an oral anxiolytic medication, state regulations exist defining the degree of training and certification required for the dentist and staff involved in administering this medication [56].
Unlike the first uses of pure nitrous oxide, conventional dental use of this gas today is combined with varying percentages of oxygen. A typical mixture is 30% nitrous oxide and 70% oxygen, with other proportionate combinations also used. This combination of gases rapidly diffuses into the bloodstream and is eliminated at the end of the session when pure oxygen is inhaled for five minutes; it is not metabolized by the body and is secreted essentially unchanged via the lungs. There are no known significant drug interactions, although there is some evidence that nitrous oxide may increase the risk of methotrexate-associated toxicity [7,57,58]. Common side effects are postprocedural nausea and vomiting. Absolute contraindications to nitrous oxide use include emphysema, pneumothorax, middle ear surgery, air embolus, elevated intracranial pressure, and methionine synthase pathway enzyme deficiencies [59]. Renal, hepatic, and neurologic problems may be noted, and fertility issues can develop in women exposed to multiple doses of nitrous oxide [18].
To protect staff, scavenger systems are available to recover nitrous oxide that escapes from the system. All components of these delivery systems should be inspected on a regular basis, as chronic exposure to nitrous oxide can be hazardous. During the administration of nitrous oxide/oxygen, patients should only speak when there is an issue relative to their dental treatment in order to minimize the amount of nitrous oxide exhaled into the room. Properly fitted inhalation masks should be worn by the patient to decrease the amount of nitrous oxide leaked into the office.
Many factors can influence the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of medications, and before any medication is administered, these factors must be considered. The patient's weight, health issues, other prescribed medications, and current condition will influence the dose, frequency of administration, and duration of use of medication(s). The medical history should be updated with each patient visit, including information about any problematic experience that the patient has had with the use of prescribed or over-the-counter medications.
Systemic health issues will influence the choice of medications as well. Patients with hepatic problems, such as hepatitis or cirrhosis, often have decreased liver function and impaired ability to metabolize medications. Similarly, renal pathology can decrease the excretion of medications and allow a detrimental drug accumulation. In these patients, dose, frequency of administration, and the duration of treatment should be adjusted to prevent toxic accumulation or overdose of a given medication. Patients taking multiple medications for complex medical problems face the challenges of adverse drug interactions, inadequate drug metabolism, and impaired drug excretion. Consult the patient's physician if there are any concerns about prescribing additional medications for these patients.
Medication use may also be modified for pregnant or breastfeeding women. In 1979, the FDA established drug risk categories (lettered A, B, C, D, and X) to all medications according to the potential harm to the developing fetus or the mother. These categories were substantially updated in 2006 under the FDA's Physician Labeling Rule. Effective June 2015, the Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling Rule (PLLR) replaced the product letter categories with three detailed labeling subsections [60,61,62,63]:
Pregnancy: The pregnancy subsection will provide information relevant to use of the drug in pregnant women (e.g., dosing, potential risk to fetus). It must also provide information about whether a registry exists that collects/maintains date on the drug's effect on pregnant women.
Lactation: This subsection will provide information about use of the drug during breastfeeding (e.g., amount of drug in breast milk, potential effect on the child).
Females and males of reproductive potential: This subsection will include information about pregnancy testing, contraception, and infertility as it relates to the drug.
The PLLR is intended to provide a more consistent way to include relevant information about the risks and benefits for the patient, the fetus, and the breastfeeding child. It will apply to all "newly approved" drug and biologic product applications. The labeling of previously approved products will be phased in gradually [63]. Any concerns about the use of a medication for a pregnant patient should be directed to the patient's obstetrician.
Age is yet another factor to consider, as both the pediatric and geriatric populations have altered abilities to absorb, metabolize, and excrete medications. Both anatomic and physiologic differences in these patient populations require alterations in dosage and more extensive monitoring.
The vast array of medications available in dentistry have done much to improve the health of patients and the quality of dental care. However, because the use of medications has become so common, the risks associated with their use are often minimized. Allergic reactions, adverse drug interactions, and deleterious side effects are all issues that must be considered before prescribing or administering medications. The unique dental problems of each patient coupled with concurrent health issues, the use of any prescribed or over-the-counter medications, and the patient's status, age, and weight should be used to guide clinicians to select the medication(s) most appropriate for the circumstances.
This course has provided an overview of the most frequently used medications before, during, and after dental treatment, but it is by no means an exhaustive list. Textbooks and drug handbooks may be consulted for more extensive information. This discussion should heighten clinicians' awareness of the most frequently prescribed medications adjunctive to definitive dental treatment and the risks and benefits associated with their use.
A safe and responsible approach to prescribing and administering can minimize, but not eliminate, the occurrence of adverse medication-related events. All clinicians should strive to use medications that will combine safety and efficacy. This will improve the oral health and overall health of each patient and also ensure that individuals experience the best possible quality of life.
1. Malamed SF. The chronicles of anesthesia: part 1. Dimens Dent Hyg. 2006;4(1):22-24.
2. Haas DA. An update on local anesthetics in dentistry. J Can Dent Assoc. 2002;68(9):546-551.
3. Webb L. Dental Anesthesia: Overview of Injectable Agents Useful for Nonsurgical Periodontal Therapy. Available at https://www.rdhmag.com/articles/print/volume-36/issue-1/contents/understanding-available-agents.html. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
4. Henderson S. Drug interactions with local anaesthetic preparations used by primary care dental practitioners. Dent Update. 2010;37(4):236-238, 241.
5. Malamed SF. Up Close With Amide Anesthetic Agents. Available at http://www.dimensionsofdentalhygiene.com/ddhright.aspx?id=538. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
6. Becker DE, Reed KL. Essentials of local anesthetic pharmacology. Anesth Prog. 2006;53(3):98-109.
7. Wynn RL, Meiller TF, Crossley HL. Drug Information Handbook for Dentistry. 24th ed. Hudson, OH: LexiComp; 2018.
8. Dembro JB. Articaine: anecdote and science. Todays FDA. 2009:21(4):15-17.
9. Malamed SF. Handbook of Local Anesthesia. 6th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby; 2012.
10. Uckan S, Dayangac E, Araz K. Is permanent maxillary tooth removal without palatal injection possible? Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod. 2006;102(6):733-735.
11. Yadav S. Anesthetic success of supplemental infiltration in mandibular molars with irreversible pulpitis: a systematic review.J Conserv Dent. 2015;18(3):182-186.
12. Ashraf H, Kazem M, Dianat O, Noghrehkar F. Efficacy of articaine versus lidocaine in block and infiltration anesthesia administered in teeth with irreversible pulpitis: a prospective, randomized, double-blind study. J Endod. 2013;39(1):6-10.
13. Parirokh M, Yosefi MH, Nakhaee N, Abbott PV, Manochehrifar H. The success rate of bupivacaine and lidocaine as anesthetic agents in inferior alveolar nerve block in teeth with irreversible pulpitis without spontaneous pain. Restor Dent Endod. 2015;40(2):155-160.
14. Pogrel MA. Permanent nerve damage from the inferior alveolar nerve blocks: an update to include articaine. J Calif Dent Assoc. 2007;35(4):271-273.
15. Pogrel MA, Permanent nerve damage from inferior alveolar nerve blocks: a current update. J Calif Dent Assoc. 2012;40(10):795-797.
16. Kakroudi SH, Mehta S, Millar BJ. Articaine hydrochloride: is it the solution? Dent Update. 2015;42(1):88-90.
17. Yagiela JA. Local anesthetics. In: Dionne RA, Phero JP, Becker DE (eds). Management of Pain and Anxiety in the Dental Office: Oral and Maxillofacial. St. Louis, MO: WB Saunders; 2002.
18. LexiComp Online. Available at http://online.lexi.com. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
19. Kreeftenberg HG Jr, Braams R, Nauta P. Methemoglobinemia after low-dose prilocaine in an adult patient receiving barbiturate comedication. Anesth Analg. 2007;104(2):459-460.
20. MedicineNet. Acetaminophen Uses, Side Effects, and Dosage. Available at https://www.medicinenet.com/acetaminophen/article.htm. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
21. International Ibuprofen Foundation. Non-Prescription Use of Ibuprofen and the Risks of Gastrointestinal and Renal Toxicity. Available at https://wayback.archive-it.org/7993/20170405155048/https://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/ac/02/briefing/3882B2_06_International%20Ibuprofen%20Foundation.htm. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
22. MedicineNet.com. FDA Makes Statement on Naproxen (Aleve). Available at https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=41145. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
23. Gutstein HB, Akil H. Opioid analgesics. In: Brunton LL, Lazo JS, Parker KL (eds). Goodman and Gilman's the Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics. 11th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill; 2006: 351-373.
24. Vree TB, van Dongen RT, Koopman-Kimenai PM. Codeine analgesia is due to codeine-6-glucuronide, not morphine. Int J Clin Pract. 2000;54(6):395-398.
25. Golubic S, Moore PA, Katz N, Kenna GA, Hersh EV. Opioid prescribing in dentistry: trends, ethical considerations, and diversion and abuse prevention. Inside Dent. 2011;7(6):51-58.
26. Denisco RC, Kenna GA, O'Neil MG, et al. Prevention of prescription opioid abuse: the role of the dentist. JADA. 2011;142(7):800-810.
27. McCauley JL, Leite RS, Gordan VV, et al. Opioid prescribing and risk mitigation implementation in the management of acute pain: results from The National Dental Practice-Based Research Network. J Am Dent Assoc. 2018;149(5):353-362.
28. McCauley JL, Leite RS, Melvin CL, Fillingim RB, Brady KT. Dental opioid prescribing practices and risk mitigation strategy implementation: identification of potential targets for provider-level intervention. Subst Abus. 2016;37(1):9-14.
29. Sinatra RS, Jahr JS, Watkins-Pitchford JM (eds). The Essence of Analgesia and Analgesics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; 2011.
30. Lalovic B, Kharasch E, Hoffer C, Risler L, Liu-Chen LY, Shen DD. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral oxycodone in healthy human subjects: role of circulating active metabolites. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2006;79(5):461-479.
31. Drugs.com. Oxycodone. Available at https://www.drugs.com/monograph/oxycodone.html. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
32. Bellis M. The History of Penicillin. Available at https://www.thoughtco.com/history-of-penicillin-1992304. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
33. Solensky R. Hypersensitivity reactions to beta-lactamantibiotics. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2003;24(3):201-220.
34. Mailänder-Sánchez D, Wagener J, Schaller M. Potential role of probiotic bacteria in the treatment and prevention of localised candidosis. Mycoses. 2012;55(1):17-26.
35. PubChem Compound. Penicillin V. Available at https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/6869. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
36. Sandor GK, Low DE, Judd PL, Davidson RJ. Antimicrobial treatment options in the management of odontogenic infections.J Can Dent Assoc. 1998;64(7):508-514.
37. Topazian RG, Goldberg MH, Hupp JR (eds). Oral and Maxillofacial Infections. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: WB Saunders; 2002.
38. Public Health Agency of Canada. Human Antimicrobial Drug Use Report 2012/2013. Available at http://publications.gc.ca/collections/collection_2014/aspc-phac/HP37-20-2013-eng.pdf. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
39. The Merck Manual. Lincosamides, Oxazolidinones and Streptogramins. Available at https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/infectious-diseases/bacteria-and-antibacterial-drugs/lincosamides%2C-oxazolidinones%2C-and-streptogramins. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
40. Newman MG, van Winkelhoff AJ (eds). Antibiotic and Antimicrobial Use in Dental Practice. 2nd ed. Chicago, IL: Quintessence; 2001.
41. Brook I, Lewis MA, Sándor GK, Jeffcoat M, Samaranayke LP, Vera Rojas J. Clindamycin in dentistry: more than just an effective prophylaxis for endocarditis? Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod. 2005;100(5):550-558.
42. Mayo Clinic. Periodontitis. Available at https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/periodontitis/symptoms-causes/syc-20354473. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
43. RxList. Actisite. Available at https://www.rxlist.com/actisite-drug.htm. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
44. Medical Wellness Center. Frequently Asked Questions: Periostat. Available at https://www.medicalwellnesscenter.com/Periostatquestionsandanswers.htm. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
45. Drugs.com. Arestin. Available at https://www.drugs.com/pro/arestin.html. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
46. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Fungal Diseases. Candida Infections of the Mouth, Throat, and Esophagus: Statistics. Available at https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/candidiasis/thrush/index.html. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
47. Berberi A, Noujeim Z, Aoun G. Epidemiology of oropharyngeal candidiasis in human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome patients and CD4+ counts. J Int Oral Health. 2015;7(3):20-23.
48. Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, et al. Clinical practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 2016 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;62(4):e1-e50.
49. American Dental Association. The ADA/PDR Guide to Dental Therapeutics. 5th ed. Montvale, NJ: PDR Network; 2009.
50. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA Drug Safety Communication: FDA Limits Usage of Nizoral (ketoconazole) Oral Tablets Due to Potentially Fatal Liver Injury and the Risk of Drug Interactions and Adrenal Gland Problems. Available at https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm362415.htm. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
51. World Health Organization. WHO Model List of Essential Medicines. Available at http://whqlibdoc.who.int/hq/2011/a95053_eng.pdf. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
52. Little JW, Falace DA, Miller CS, Rhodus NL. Little and Falace's Dental Management of the Medically Compromised Patient. 8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby; 2012. 9th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby; 2018.
53. Donaldson M, Goodchild JH. Maximum cumulative doses of sedation medication for in-office use. Gen Dent. 2007;55(2):143-148.
54. Farinde A. Benzodiazepine Equivalency Table. Available at https://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2172250-overview. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
55. Goerig M, Schulte am Esch J. History of nitrous oxide with special reference to its early use in Germany. Best Pract Res Clin Anesthesiol. 2001;15(3):313-338.
56. Dental Assisting National Board, Inc. California State Requirements. Additional Resources. Allowable and Prohibited Duties for Each Level (PDF). Available at https://www.danb.org/Meet-State-Requirements/State-Specific-Information/California.aspx. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
57. Goldhirsch A, Gelber RD, Tattersall MN, Rudenstam CM, Cavalli F. Methotrexate/nitrous-oxide toxic interaction in perioperative chemotherapy for early breast cancer. Lancet. 1987;2(8551):151.
58. van Outryve S, Schrijvers D, van den Brande J, et al. Methotrexate-associated liver toxicity in a patient with breast cancer: case report and literature review. Neth J Med. 2002;60(5):216-222.
59. Silverman M, Hexem J. Nitrous oxide/oxygen sedation and the single-dose sedative. Inside Dent. 2011;7(8):42-54.
60. Federal Register. Content and Format of Labeling for Human Prescription Drug and Biological Products: Requirements for Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling. Available at https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2014/12/04/2014-28241/content-andformat-of-labeling-for-human-prescription-drug-and-biological-products-requirements-for. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
61. Gaffney A. FDA Scraps Pregnancy Labeling Classification System in Favor of New Standard. Available at https://www.raps.org/regulatory-focus%e2%84%a2/news-articles/2014/12/fda-scraps-pregnancy-labeling-classification-system-in-favor-of-new-standard. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
62. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling Final Rule. Available at https://www.fda.gov/drugs/developmentapprovalprocess/developmentresources/labeling/ucm093307.htm. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
63. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Press Release. FDA Issues Final Rule on Changes to Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling Information for Prescription Drug and Biological Products. Available at https://wayback.archive-it.org/7993/20170111093956/http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm425317.htm. Last accessed August 13, 2018.
1. McDonald LC, Gerding DN, Johnson S, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for Clostridium difficile infection in adults and children: 2017 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA). Clin Infect Dis. 2018;66(7):e1-e48. Available at https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/66/7/e1/4855916. Last accessed August 20, 2018.
