DNASequence is a young, dynamic enterprise based on a long history of corporate and academic collaboration between the founders, their networks and their partners. The founders of DNASequence have been working together in the field of digital biotechnology for more than 15 years and have thus imagined their current efforts a long time ago.
“Our expertise ranges from information technology – such as hardware, network and software engineering, software development, HPC, big data analytics, machine learning, algorithm implementation and cloud computing – to biotechnology – such as omics technologies, including genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and exposomics, as well as bioinformatics, life science databases, precision medicine and data/software standards” explained Professor Christos Ouzounis, the company’s CSO.
DNASequence, with the strong US network of its founders, is expected to work with US industries on multiple levels. “As a cutting-edge IT/biotech, we will follow the latest trends and technology platforms closely in the academic domain, where collaborations with top academic institutions are being fostered. In addition, corporate partnerships are envisioned, both in the IT and the biotechnology domains, in the near future” highlighted Ouzounis.
According to the CSO, the Covid-19 pandemic has amplified the need for digitalization and the application of new cutting-edge technologies. “Despite the public health disaster and emergency measures with a negative impact on the economy, the current pandemic underlines the need for biosafety and biosecurity, as never before” he said.
This has pushed the startup ecosystem in Greece forward and it is currently experiencing its biggest boom, a great development coinciding with the country’s proud 200th anniversary since the revolution. “The celebration of 200 years of modern Greece is a milestone for a new era of innovation built on a rich cultural heritage, where DNASequence can also contribute by actively participating in projects related to the preservation of archaeological treasures. The future is bright” Ouzounis said.
Cutting-edge technology solutions for the global ICT sector
International collaborations and sustainability on top of Tseti’s agenda
Copyright 2022 © Mercury Global Reports
Web design Don Wilson Marketing
Search for:
Our Firm
Our Services
Our Reports
Testimonials
Contact us
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies.
Cookie settingsACCEPTRead More
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Non-necessary
Non-necessary
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
You are currently searching within the Hatch Recognized for Leadership in Passage of Bipartisan CHRONIC Care Act section.
Hatch Recognized for Leadership in Passage of Bipartisan CHRONIC Care Act
WASHINGTON – Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today was recognized for his leadership in creating and shepherding the Creating High-Quality Results and Outcomes Necessary to Improve Chronic (CHRONIC) Care Act into law at the Bipartisan Policy Committee (BPC) event "Bipartisan Leadership in Health Care: Chronic Care Implementation". BPC President, Jason Grumet, presented Chairman Hatch with an award for this bipartisan success. Hatch spoke on the years-long legislative effort in the Finance Committee to help seniors in Medicare suffering from stroke, diabetes, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease, heart disease and other chronic illnesses. He was joined by Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) in receiving this award, and CMS Administrator Seema Verma.
"This bill was the culmination of a bipartisan, committee-wide effort to streamline care coordination services and improve healthcare outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries living with chronic conditions. As more Americans with multiple chronic conditions age into the Medicare program, my colleagues and I wanted to ensure that Medicare would work for them," Hatch said.
Please find more information about the event here: https://bipartisanpolicy.org/events/bipartisan-leadership-in-health-care-chronic-care-implementation/
The Spine Journal - ISSN: 15299430| US Elsevier Health Bookshop Skip to Content » Site Map Follow @Elsevier_Med
A Multidisciplinary Journal of Spinal Disorders
Edited By Eugene J. Carragee, MD
The Spine Journal, the official journal of the North American Spine Society, is an international and multidisciplinary journal that publishes original, peer-reviewed articles on research and treatment related to the spine and spine care, including basic science and clinical investigations. It is a condition of publication that manuscripts submitted to The Spine Journal have not been published, and will not be simultaneously submitted or published elsewhere. The Spine Journal also publishes major reviews of specific topics by acknowledged authorities, technical notes, teaching editorials, and other special features, Letters to the Editor-in-Chief are encouraged.The Spine Journal is ranked 4th of 63 journals in Orthopaedics category on the 2012 Journal Citation Reports®, published by Thomson Reuters, and has an Impact Factor of 3.220.Benefits to authorsWe also provide many author benefits, such as free PDFs, a liberal copyright policy, special discounts on Elsevier publications and much more. Please click here for more information on our author services.Please see our Guide for Authors for information on article submission. If you require any further information or help, please visit our support pages: click here
Journal Onlinee-AlertExecutive Editorial Board Universal DisclosureNorth American Spine SocietyArtwork Instructions
Role of Ecologic ACE I/D Polymorphism Data Towards Prediction of COVID-19 Epidemiology | Research Square
Role of Ecologic ACE I/D Polymorphism Data Towards Prediction of COVID-19 Epidemiology
Ali Amar, Abdul Rafay Khan, Madiha Shakoor, Aiysha Abid, Shagufta Khaliq
https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-259633/v1
COVID-19 displays marked variability in the clinical course as well as regional epidemiology. Abnormalities in RAAS system especially stemming from genetic variability in ACE and ACE2 expression (including ACE I/D polymorphism) have been proposed to explain underlying pathogenesis and variability in SARS-CoV-2 infection. In a meta-regression data set of 30 countries, we found significant associations of ACE I/D ratio and COVID-19 prevalence, deaths and recovery rate but not when adjusted for possible confounders. This ecological study suggests potential of ACE I/D data as predictive biomarker COVID-19 risk and severity in a population specific manner, subject to validation in large genetic epidemiological and functional studies.
population specific manner
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a global pandemic with concerning figures for total cases (>26.5 millions), deaths (>0.9 million), and serious/critical (>58 thousands) (https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/ as of September 01, 2020) with serious global effects on healthcare, economy and life style. COVID-19 epidemiological data displays regional tropism where Europe seems to have suffered from a higher incidence and death rates than China and other East Asian countries [1]. In addition, significant heterogeneity in clinical course of COVID-19 disease has also been observed ranging from asymptomatic carriers and mild flu-like symptoms to severe respiratory distress with increased risk of multi-organ failure and subsequent death [2]. This data suggests that viral and host genetic modulators in addition to the classical systemic risk factors and socio-behavioral differences could differentially facilitate COVID-19 infection and outcome. As a result, global efforts such as COVID-19 host genetics initiative (https://www.covid19hg.org/), and vaccine development are in progress with special focus on host genetic determinants to better understand its pathophysiology and ways to combat it.
The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is involved in regulation of blood pressure and extracellular volume and is regulated by reciprocal interaction of two key angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) analogs i.e. ACE1 (converts angiotension I to angiotension II) and ACE2 (metabolizes angiotension II) [3]. COVID-19 represents a condition where the delicate RAAS hemostatic balance is disturbed resulting in vasoconstrictive, pro-inflammatory, pro-fibrotic and pro-apoptotic effects of unopposed angiotension II which may explain acute lung injury and other pathologies observed as a result of SARS-CoV-2 infection [reviewed in [4]]. Several observations support the evident association between RAAS imbalance and COVID-19 disease including; (1) the ACE2 is the main cellular receptor for the SARS-CoV-2 and this interaction results in exhaustion and reduced expression of ACE2 [5,6], (2) animal models of SARS-CoV and disrupted ACE2 demonstrating ACE2 downregulation mediated severe lung and cardiovascular injuries [7,8], (3) recombinant ACE2 offers protection against lung injury in mice and SARS-CoV-2 infection in human organoids [9], and functional genetic variations in ACE2 and its analog ACE, especially the 287bp insertion/deletion (Ins/Del) polymorphism (rs4646994), may reflect variability in ACE and ACE2 levels in general population (e.g. D allele of ACE I/D polymorphism mediates higher ACE expression) [10] and have been associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), hypertension, obesity/metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular risk, and abnormal blood clotting tendency; all of which represent clinical hallmarks of severe COVID-19 disease [reviewed in [4,11]]. In contrast, no clinical advantage was observed in COVID-19 patients treated with ACE inhibitors or angiotension receptor blockers (mediating high ACE2 and low angiotension II) [12], suggesting that further efforts are needed to fully comprehend the role of RAAS in COVID-19. Therefore, the present study employed an ecological meta-regression design to evaluate the ACE1 I/D genotypic data in relation to the observed differences in COVID-19 epidemiological parameters in different ethnicities especially in European and Asian countries.
The ACE I/D polymorphism frequency data for each country was retrieved from previously published studies following the Systematic Studies and Meta-Analysis Reporting System (PRISMA) guidelines. The main inclusion criteria for studies was reporting of ACE I/D variant genotypic data in healthy population. I and D allele frequencies for ACE polymorphism in healthy controls of each study were retrieved and used for estimations of cumulative I/D ratio for each country.
COVID-19 data pertaining to prevalence, serious or critical patients, deaths and recovery rate for each country (per 106 population for all variables) were extracted as available from www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/countries website. Since different indicators of economy, health services and prevalence of relevant chronic health conditions may modulate country specific COVID-19 data, different confounding variables including COVID-19 diagnostic tests performed (number per 106 inhabitants), GDP/capita (PPP), current health expenditure/capita (PPP), healthy life expectancy at birth, DALY diabetes mellitus, DALY hypertensive heart disease and DALY respiratory infections as retrieved from the World Health Organization website www.who.int/countries/en/.
Comprehensive Meta-Analysis version 3 was used to generate the forest plot where points of estimation (I/D ratios) were calculated by dividing frequency of I-allele with that of D-allele among all the studies of each country along with standard error of each ratio (for countries having more than one study). Normal distribution of variables was checked using Shapiro-Wilk test and non-normally distributed variables were log-transformed using log1p function. The estimated value of association, p-value and meta-analytic scatterplots were generated using Metafor R package. Multivariable linear regression models were constructed where COVID-19 epidemiological measures (prevalence, serious or critical patients, deaths and recovery rate) were taken as outcome variables while considering ACE I/D ratio and above mentioned confounding variables as explanatory factors. All the statistics were performed on R version 4.0.2. A two tailed p-value less than 0.05 was considered as significant.
We first performed a crude overall analysis including all countries (n=47), where the univariate regression analysis suggested no significant associations between ACE I/D ratio and COVID-19 epidemiological parameters (Online ResourceSupplementary Table S1). Similar trends with no significant associations were observed in multivariate regression analysis after adjusting the data for possible confounders (Online Resource Supplementary Table S2). However, when data was subdivided into two major groups (Asian and European countries), it was observed that a decrease in ACE I/D ratio was significantly associated with an increase in COVID-19 mediated deaths/million only in Asians (point estimate = -3.21, p = 0.01). However, univariate and multivariate regression results showed non-significant associations of the COVID-19 log-transformed prevalence, deaths, serious or critical and recovery rate with ACE I/D polymorphism in the Europeans (Online Resource Supplementary Tables S1 and S2).
We further performed quality control of our cumulative dataset by including only countries (a) with more than one studies for ACE I/D ratio, and (b) with ACE I/D polymorphism frequencies conforming to HWE, thus, resulting in a total of 30 countries in this refined dataset. The meta-analysis results for cumulative ACE I/D ratio of included studies are presented in Figure 1. The overall point estimate was 0.625 (95% CI 0.60-0.65) with no apparent publication bias as shown in Online Resource Supplementary Figure S1. Asian countries displayed relatively higher ACE I/D allele frequency ratios (all ≥0.85 with an average of 1.01) compared to European countries (average ACE I/D ratio of 0.60).
Meta-regression results for this refined dataset indicated a significant association of ACE I/D ratio with the COVID-19 prevalence (point estimate = -0.059, p = 0.001), deaths/million (point estimate = -0.039, p = 0.01), and recovery rate (point estimate = -0.037, p = 0.02) (Figure 2) but not with severity of the disease (point estimate = -0.030, p = 0.18). However, none of these associations persisted when data was adjusted for possible confounding variables in multivariate regression analyses (Table 1).
The COVID-19 related data and knowledge is rapidly evolving. Our meta-regression results indicate a possible correlation of ACE I/D polymorphism with COVID-19 prevalence, deaths and recovery rate. It means that the countries with lower ACE I/D ratios (i.e. high frequency of D allele) showed higher prevalence and deaths due to COVID-19 infection especially in the context of European versus Asian countries. However, this correlation could not be established when adjusted for possible confounders, although multivariate regression analysis was not performed in Asian sub-group due to low sample size. Overall, the ACE I/D variant presents specific genotypic frequency in Caucasian and Asian populations. Most European (especially North European) and East Asian (as some South European) countries demonstration high and low distribution of the D/D genotype, respectively. These population specific genotypic distributions may have resulted from the long-term human migration patterns eastward and westward across the vast Eurasian continent. The present findings based on ACE I/D data offer explanation, at least partially, for the observed differences in COVID-19 prevalence and mortality between the East Asian and European countries. However, it is noteworthy that differential socio-economical, healthcare and societal/behavioral factors among different ethnicities may significantly modulate these apparent associations between ACE I/D polymorphism and COVID-19 epidemiological measures.
Previously various studies reported association of ACE I/D polymorphism either with COVID-19 prevalence [13-16], or mortality (affected by COVID-19 testing intensity) or deaths/million (independent of COVID-19 testing intensity) [15,16,11,17] or with recovery rate [18]. The variability in the results of the previous meta-regression reports may have originated from differences in; (1) measure of ACE I/D polymorphism and COVID-19 parameters used and source/method of data retrieval, (2) relative distribution of ethnicities/countries included, and (3) the data analysis approaches (e.g. adjustment for possible confounders and sensitivity analyses).
Functionally, COVID-19 patients with low I/D ratios may have an unopposed abundance of angiotension II protein in their blood resulting from more D-allele mediated excessive ACE expression on one hand and downregulation of ACE2 receptor because of SARS-Cov-2 engagement on the other, thus triggering downstream deleterious effects most notably of which is acute lung injury [4]. This RAAS imbalance due to ACE abundance may also explain why elders are more susceptible to COVID-19 infection [19]. In addition, preliminary evidence was also provided by a recent study reporting hypertension dependent association of ACE DD genotype and severe COVID-19 using a sample set of 204 Spanish SARS-CoV-2 infected patients [20]. Thus, excessive serum ACE levels and/or presence of ACE Del/Del genotype may still predict a more severe clinical course in SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Nevertheless, the present study has some limitations. Due to the ecologic study design, the results of the present study should be considered as a mean to develop hypothesis rather than definitive casual associations and should not be subjected to individual level interpretations. In addition, several additional confounders of genetic, epigenetic, social/behavioral and environmental in origin may contribute towards observed COVID-19 epidemiology data and thus should be accounted for in the future studies.
In conclusion, the results of present study should be interpreted with caution and further studies following genetic epidemiological, cohort and experimental study designs with functional validations and based on samples from COVID-19 patients should be conducted to delineate definitive causal relationship between the genetic variants in RAAS, especially ACE I/D polymorphism, and outcome of the COVID-19.
All authors contributed to the study conception and design. Material preparation, data collection and analysis were performed by Ali Amar, Abdul Rafay and Madiha Shakoor. The first draft of the manuscript was written by Ali Amar and Shagufta Khaliq while manuscript review and editing were performed by Ali Amar, Aiysha Abid and Shagufta Khaliq. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
We thank Prof. Javed Akram (Vice Chancellor, University of Health Sciences, Lahore) for his motivation and inspiration to work during the stressful COVID-19 pandemic.
Tsang HF, Chan LWC, Cho WCS, Yu ACS, Yim AKY, Chan AKC, Ng LPW, Wong YKE, Pei XM, Li MJW, Wong S-CC (2020) An update on COVID-19 pandemic: the epidemiology, pathogenesis, prevention and treatment strategies. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther 0 (0):1-12. doi:10.1080/14787210.2021.1863146
Fu L, Wang B, Yuan T, Chen X, Ao Y, Fitzpatrick T, Li P, Zhou Y, Lin Y-f, Duan Q, Luo G, Fan S, Lu Y, Feng A, Zhan Y, Liang B, Cai W, Zhang L, Du X, Li L, Shu Y, Zou H (2020) Clinical characteristics of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in China: A systematic review and meta-analysis. J Infect 80 (6):656-665. doi:10.1016/j.jinf.2020.03.041
Kreutz R, Algharably EAE-H, Azizi M, Dobrowolski P, Guzik T, Januszewicz A, Persu A, Prejbisz A, Riemer TG, Wang J-G, Burnier M (2020) Hypertension, the renin–angiotensin system, and the risk of lower respiratory tract infections and lung injury: implications for COVID-19: European Society of Hypertension COVID-19 Task Force Review of Evidence. Cardiovasc Res 116 (10):1688-1699. doi:10.1093/cvr/cvaa097
Zheng H, Cao JJ (2020) Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Gene Polymorphism and Severe Lung Injury in Patients with Coronavirus Disease 2019. The American Journal of Pathology 190 (10):2013-2017. doi:10.1016/j.ajpath.2020.07.009
Hoffmann M, Kleine-Weber H, Schroeder S, Krüger N, Herrler T, Erichsen S, Schiergens TS, Herrler G, Wu N-H, Nitsche A, Müller MA, Drosten C, Pöhlmann S (2020) SARS-CoV-2 Cell Entry Depends on ACE2 and TMPRSS2 and Is Blocked by a Clinically Proven Protease Inhibitor. Cell 181 (2):271-280.e278. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.052
Wang K, Gheblawi M, Oudit GY (2020) Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2: A Double-Edged Sword. Circulation 142 (5):426-428. doi:10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.120.047049
Crackower MA, Sarao R, Oudit GY, Yagil C, Kozieradzki I, Scanga SE, Oliveira-dos-Santos AJ, da Costa J, Zhang L, Pei Y, Scholey J, Ferrario CM, Manoukian AS, Chappell MC, Backx PH, Yagil Y, Penninger JM (2002) Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 is an essential regulator of heart function. Nature 417 (6891):822-828. doi:10.1038/nature00786
Kuba K, Imai Y, Rao S, Gao H, Guo F, Guan B, Huan Y, Yang P, Zhang Y, Deng W, Bao L, Zhang B, Liu G, Wang Z, Chappell M, Liu Y, Zheng D, Leibbrandt A, Wada T, Slutsky AS, Liu D, Qin C, Jiang C, Penninger JM (2005) A crucial role of angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) in SARS coronavirus-induced lung injury. Nat Med 11 (8):875-879. doi:10.1038/nm1267
Monteil V, Kwon H, Prado P, Hagelkrüys A, Wimmer RA, Stahl M, Leopoldi A, Garreta E, Hurtado Del Pozo C, Prosper F, Romero JP, Wirnsberger G, Zhang H, Slutsky AS, Conder R, Montserrat N, Mirazimi A, Penninger JM (2020) Inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 Infections in Engineered Human Tissues Using Clinical-Grade Soluble Human ACE2. Cell 181 (4):905-913.e907. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.04.004
Rigat B, Hubert C, Alhenc-Gelas F, Cambien F, Corvol P, Soubrier F (1990) An insertion/deletion polymorphism in the angiotensin I-converting enzyme gene accounting for half the variance of serum enzyme levels. J Clin Invest 86 (4):1343-1346
Bellone M, Calvisi SL (2020) ACE polymorphisms and COVID-19-related mortality in Europe. J Mol Med (Berl) 98 (11):1505-1509. doi:10.1007/s00109-020-01981-0
Koshy AN, Murphy AC, Farouque O, Ramchand J, Burrell LM, Yudi MB (2020) Renin–angiotensin system inhibition and risk of infection and mortality in COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Intern Med J 50 (12):1468-1474. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/imj.15002
Delanghe JR, Speeckaert MM, Buyzere MLD (2020) COVID-19 infections are also affected by human ACE1 D/I polymorphism. Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine (CCLM) 58 (7):1125-1126. doi:10.1515/cclm-2020-0425
Delanghe JR, Speeckaert MM, De Buyzere ML (2020) The host's angiotensin-converting enzyme polymorphism may explain epidemiological findings in COVID-19 infections. Clinica Chimica Acta; International Journal of Clinical Chemistry 505:192-193. doi:10.1016/j.cca.2020.03.031
Chris K (2020) ACE-1 I/D Polymorphism Associated with COVID-19 Incidence and Mortality: An Ecological Study. doi:10.20944/preprints202004.0262.v1
Yamamoto N, Ariumi Y, Nishida N, Yamamoto R, Bauer G, Gojobori T, Shimotohno K, Mizokami M (2020) SARS-CoV-2 infections and COVID-19 mortalities strongly correlate with ACE1 I/D genotype. Gene 758:144944. doi:10.1016/j.gene.2020.144944
Aung AK, Aitken T, Teh BM, Yu C, Ofori-Asenso R, Chin KL, Liew D (2020) Angiotensin converting enzyme genotypes and mortality from COVID-19: An ecological study. The Journal of Infection 81 (6):961-965. doi:10.1016/j.jinf.2020.11.012
Hatami N, Ahi S, Sadeghinikoo A, Foroughian M, Javdani F, Kalani N, Fereydoni M, Keshavarz P, hosseini A (2020) Worldwide ACE (I/D) polymorphism may affect COVID-19 recovery rate: an ecological meta-regression. Endocrine:1-6. doi:10.1007/s12020-020-02381-7
Muus C, Luecken MD, Eraslan G, Waghray A, Heimberg G, Sikkema L, Kobayashi Y, Vaishnav ED, Subramanian A, Smilie C, Jagadeesh K, Duong ET, Fiskin E, Triglia ET, Ansari M, Cai P, Lin B, Buchanan J, Chen S, Shu J, Haber AL, Chung H, Montoro DT, Adams T, Aliee H, Samuel J, Andrusivova AZ, Angelidis I, Ashenberg O, Bassler K, Bécavin C, Benhar I, Bergenstråhle J, Bergenstråhle L, Bolt L, Braun E, Bui LT, Chaffin M, Chichelnitskiy E, Chiou J, Conlon TM, Cuoco MS, Deprez M, Fischer DS, Gillich A, Gould J, Guo M, Gutierrez AJ, Habermann AC, Harvey T, He P, Hou X, Hu L, Jaiswal A, Jiang P, Kapellos T, Kuo CS, Larsson L, Leney-Greene MA, Lim K, Litviňuková M, Lu J, Ludwig LS, Luo W, Maatz H, Madissoon E, Mamanova L, Manakongtreecheep K, Marquette C-H, Mbano I, McAdams AM, Metzger RJ, Nabhan AN, Nyquist SK, Penland L, Poirion OB, Poli S, Qi C, Queen R, Reichart D, Rosas I, Schupp J, Sinha R, Sit RV, Slowikowski K, Slyper M, Smith N, Sountoulidis A, Strunz M, Sun D, Talavera-López C, Tan P, Tantivit J, Travaglini KJ, Tucker NR, Vernon K, Wadsworth MH, Waldman J, Wang X, Yan W, Zhao W, Ziegler CGK, Consortium TNL, Network THCALB (2020) Integrated analyses of single-cell atlases reveal age, gender, and smoking status associations with cell type-specific expression of mediators of SARS-CoV-2 viral entry and highlights inflammatory programs in putative target cells. bioRxiv:2020.2004.2019.049254. doi:10.1101/2020.04.19.049254
Gómez J, Albaiceta GM, García-Clemente M, López-Larrea C, Amado-Rodríguez L, Lopez-Alonso I, Hermida T, Enriquez AI, Herrero P, Melón S, Alvarez-Argüelles ME, Boga JA, Rojo-Alba S, Cuesta-Llavona E, Alvarez V, Lorca R, Coto E (2020) Angiotensin-converting enzymes (ACE, ACE2) gene variants and COVID-19 outcome. Gene 762:145102. doi:10.1016/j.gene.2020.145102
Table 1: Multivariate meta-regression analysis for association of ACE I/D polymorphism and COVID-19 epidemiological parameters in refined dataset (n=30)
Confounders remained
Presence of the ACE I/D ratio
Covid-19 prevalence/106 population
ACE I/D ratio, x1,x2,x3,x4,x5,x6 and x7
Covid-19 deaths/106 population
Covid-19 serious or critical/106 population
Covid-19 recovery rate/106 population
x1 = number of COVID-19 diagnostic tests performed per 106 population), x2 = GDP/capita 2017 (PPP), x3 = Current health expenditure/capita 2017 (PPP), x4 = Healthy life expectancy at birth 2016, both sexes (Years), x5 = DALY 2016 diabetes mellitus, x6 = DALY 2016 hypertensive heart disease, and x7 = DALY 2016 respiratory infections.
The main function of the airways connected to our lungs is to exchange pure air to the lungs, under which there is a kind of balance between breath inhaling and exhaling. But when the flow of breath taken by these respiratory tubes starts to get blocked, there is trouble in breathing. The air that is inhaled does not reach the lungs completely, due to which the person starts breathing stridently while trying to breathe. This condition is called asthma.
Treatment and Care
Research
Jain’s cow urine therapy clinic aims for a happy and healthy life by integrating ancient Ayurvedic knowledge with modern technology. Our therapy means cow urine including Ayurveda works on a person’s three doshas that are- The Vata, Pitta, and Kapha. These tri-energies maintain our health, any imbalance in these doshas, is responsible for human’s health and disease. We are glad to say that we have seen so many positive results through our treatment. Thousands of people got rid of many diseases after taking our treatment.
Our patients not only put an end to their disease but also live a disease-free healthy life forever. This is the reason why people are getting attention towards our therapy. Our years of research in Ayurvedic treatments have helped us advance our methodology. We aim to reach as many people as we can to build a healthy and happy society all over the world.
Effective Treatment By Cow Urine Therapy
Consistent with the cow urine healing approach a few herbs work to rejuvenate physique defects (Vata, bile and phlegm) which cause asthma if they may be disproportionated. A few Ayurvedic medicines comprise many beneficial elements to deal with them. It improves the metabolism of the body.
BRONKOL+ LIQUID ORAL
KOFNOL+ CAPSULE
TONER (NASAL DROPS)
FORTEX Pak
Key herbs which makes the treatement more effective
Mulethi
Due to its expectorant and bronchodilator properties, it can treat cough, bronchitis and also reduce the effects of chronic asthma. It even loosens and thins the mucus that clogs the airways and helps facilitate its expulsion through coughing to relieve congestion.
Haldi
Haldi has an effective property named curcumin. This agent can also reduce respiratory inflammation. Curcumin can aid in reducing inflammation and reducing airway obstruction. As an add-on drug for the treatment of asthma, it is effective and healthy.
Tulsi
It is an excellent aid against the symptoms of asthma. Camphene, cineole, and eugenol present in tulsi help to reduce cold and congestion in the chest. It is effective in asthma, influenza, cough, and cold. These tulsi extracts help to keep open the passages of the bronchial airway. This allows patients with asthma to have improved lung processes and fewer attacks.
Kantakari
Kantkari is very effective in drawing out the scum of Kapha from the bronchial tubes resulting in the oxygenation of the blood and relieving symptoms of asthma and providing solace to a person.
Bilva Patra
It contains chemicals called tannins, flavonoids and coumarins. These chemicals help to reduce swelling (inflammation). This might help treat asthma and other respiratory conditions.
Pippli
It has decongestant, bronchodilator and expectorant activities. Pippli is very useful for asthma due to its Kapha balancing property. It helps release mucus from the air passages due to its expectorant property thus allowing the person to breathe easily.
Kutki
It is also a strong antibacterial herb. In the respiratory system, Kutki has demonstrated the ability to reduce the severity and longevity of asthmatic attacks and has been attributed to compounds such as androsin and apocynin.
Sonth
It is a well-known natural treatment for various conditions including asthma. It can help reduce airway inflammation and inhibit airway contraction.
Triphala
Triphala has been shown to alleviate bronchial hyperreactivity in asthma. It is very effective to strengthen the respiratory and immune systems.
Kali Mirch
Kali Mirch is beneficial for cough and respiratory problems due to its antitussive (relieving cough) and anti-asthmatic properties. By using Kali Mirch one gets relief from throat problems and cough.
Cow Milk
Cow milk contains nutrients like probiotics, vitamin D, and immunoglobulins that boost the immune system and in turn reduce the risk of asthmatic allergies. It can help reduce respiratory infection and the chances of one getting an asthmatic attack.
Cow Milk curd
The healthy bacteria found in cow milk curd helps lung tissues to stay healthier. Specifically, it can stimulate the production of interleukin cells which decreases the risk of asthma inflammation.
Gomay Ras
Gomay Ras causes a temporary low state of inflammation in the lungs that somehow dampen the immune system's response to allergens.
Cow Ghee
Cow ghee not only keeps the body warm but also treats common cold, cough and breathing problems. Ghee is rich in antioxidants and acts as an aid in the absorption of vitamins and minerals from other foods.
Amla Green
Amla green is very high in vitamin C which helps in improving immunity and tolerance to asthma. Its anti-inflammatory properties play a vital role in the reduction of the severity of asthma attacks.
Ashwagandha
Ashwagandha provides a range of health benefits in reducing inflammation and anxiety. These benefits help fight diseases including asthma. Ashwagandha root extract could enhance a person's cardiorespiratory endurance.
Dalchini Powder
Cinnamaldehyde, one of the main active components of this herb may help fight various kinds of lung infection. It has been shown to effectively treat respiratory tract infections caused by fungi. It helps to remove phlegm from the throat and gives the immune system a boost.
Elaichi Powder
Elaichi Powder has an antimicrobial and antiseptic active ingredient called cineole which helps prevent any bacterial infection that could directly or indirectly damage the lungs. This is especially helpful for people who are asthmatic. It makes breathing easier by enhancing blood circulation within the lungs. It also fights related inflammation by soothing the mucus membranes.
Shatavari
Shatavari helps in the treatment of respiratory disorders which can help asthma patients. The Shatavari root effectively treats a cough and cold. It may help strengthen a person’s immune system.
Gojala
We use gojala in our cow-urine therapy, basically it means cow-urine extract, the main component in our medicine. This extract is made of the urine of the indigenous breeds of cow. Gojala has its own benefits because it’s beyond the possibility of any kind of contamination. It has high quality and is abundant. When gojala mixed with ayurvedic herbs it becomes more effective to treat any disease and favourable to the consequence of the particular disease. This extract is superimly tested and that’s why it’s more trustable and beneficial as well.
Quality of Life
Remedy with cow urine brings accurate fitness and maintains the doshas in order. Today as an end result of our medication human beings are continuously enhancing their health. It improves the condition of their day-to-day life. Ayurvedic drugs alongside cow urine can serve as a complementary remedy to limit a range of reactions that come from the usage of heavy doses, mental pressure, radiations and chemotherapies. We inform humans how to live a joyful and anxiety-free life with an untreatable disorder if any. Thousands of human beings live a balanced lifestyle after taking our remedy and it’s a big achievement for us to provide them a life they dream of.
Complication Prevention
In Ayurveda, cow urine has a special position that is often said to be helpful for illnesses like asthma. Our years of painstaking work prove that by using our herbs, almost all complications of asthma vanish. Sufferers tell us that they notice a big relief in chest pain, difficulty in breathing and asphyxia, tiredness, control and balance hormonal and chemical changes in the body, and improve the patient’s immune system that works favorably for other asthma complications.
Life Expectancy
If we are concerned about life expectancy, cow urine treatment itself is a lot of promise. Any disorder, whether minor or critical, has a negative effect on the health of a person and lasts for a period of years, often for life. Life expectancy is brief until the condition is identified, but not with cow-urine treatment. Not only does our ancient therapy comfort the illness, but it also enhances the longevity of the person without leaving any contaminants in his body and this is our ultimate objective.
Reducing Drug Dependency
“Sarve bhavantu sukhinah, Sarve santu niramayah, Sarve bhadrani pashyantu, Maa kaschit dukha bhag-bhavet”, its capacity let all be happy, let all be free from disease, let all see the truth, may no-one experience suffering. By following this proverb, we prefer our society to be like this. Our remedy accomplishes this by way of giving reliable treatment, enhancing life expectancy and decreasing the drug dependency of affected people. Our remedy has greater benefits and nil risks than any psychological therapies available in this current world.
Reducing Recurrence Chances
In comparison to wide-ranging general practice, we concentrate on the underlying cause of the disease and causes that may increase the chances of recurrence of the disease rather than relying exclusively on disease control. We are effectively decreasing recurrence rates by implementing this approach and providing a different path to the lives of people so that they can live their lives mentally and physically in a healthier way.
Causes and Prevention
Causes of Asthma
Normally, due to swelling and shrinkage in the respiratory tubes, a serious disease like asthma arises in which many reasons for this condition may be responsible for daily routine which gradually play its important role in giving rise. Asthma disease can be caused due to many reasons, but it is necessary to find those reasons because without knowing the cause we will not know whether this disease is actually asthma or something else. Factors responsible for asthma disease are:
Genetically transmitted disease
One major reason for having asthma disease is to reach other family members from one generation to another by the person suffering from asthma. Due to some problems or changes in DNA, the risk of getting such disease is often increased. However, in such circumstances, the disease usually occurs in the same way but the level, symptoms, causes and consequences of this disease also changes due to the changing phase of the age and the ability of the body to change itself.
Allergic Reactions
Influence of airways by dust particles present in the air
Asthma disease is the result of reaction in the body due to dust particles present in the air. These dust particles block the passage of air coming out of the airways after entering through the mouth and nose and the person suffocates and it’s hard for him to breathe properly.
Highest level of allergy
Due to the presence of anything in the air, when our body’s immune system reacts exceptionally to any external substances it is a kind of allergy. When the fine particles in the air enter in our body, it affects the lungs and respiratory tubes and causes asthma disease. These particles can be in any form such as finely dusted clay particles, wheat grains of paddy, fine hairs of a pet or existing particles of some kind of chemicals.
Damage to respiratory tract due to strong smell
Extremely strong odour causes weak lungs and trachea to become infected and the person does not breathe properly. The smell of perfumes, incense sticks, strong chilli, harmful chemicals, acids etc., when a person with a weak lung inhales these strong odours, he constantly sneezes and coughs and it causes the risk of their lungs becoming infected.
3. Excessive use of heavy medicines
Sometimes if the right disease is not caught or due to small infection and disease, it is treated with heavy medicines which causes the disease to be cured, but due to the side effects of the reaction of those heavy medicines, it directly affects our body. Any of these medicines taken in the treatment for any pain or cure cough, fever and colds become fatal to the body and cause asthma.
4. Food Supplement
If a person has food allergy, he may have asthma. Some foods in the food supplement that react in the body, produce symptoms that are capable of causing asthma. This allergy can be very serious and sometimes it can even kill a person. If a person is allergic to food, it is possible that asthma can become an important part of their life that he needs to find out. There are many foods that can cause allergy. They are:
Wheat
Peanut
Coconut
Mustard
Spleen
Eggs
Millet
Soyabean
Milk & milk products
Dry fruits
Fish
If a person is allergic to any of the food items, he should avoid eating all these foods and should know that these things will also increase his chances of having asthma.
5. Smoke & Smog
People who are addicted to cigarette smoking continuously for many years, such people have more chances of having asthma. Slowly, their lungs start to weaken and the mucus cough starts continuously. If a woman is about to become a mother and is smoking cigarettes, in such a time it will have a detrimental effect on her child as well as that child may also be born with weak lungs and also have to suffer from asthma in his life.
Any type of smog that comes out of cigarettes, vehicles, chemical factories, incense sticks or burning waste material reaches our lungs and blocks our breathing process and the problem of stretching in breathing tubes arises.
6 Inflammation & Infection
Our lungs start swelling, blocking the passage of respiratory tracts and attacks of asthma if we inhale strong odor, smoke or smog. This problem of sinusitis can also cause a person to have an asthma attack. This is a type of nasal problem in which the passage of the pores in the nose which helps in breathing becomes blocked due to some reason.
7. Physical Activity & Mental Stress
If a person suffers from asthma and starts exercising continuously, it causes a deep shock to their body and there is a gradual contraction in the lungs and respiratory tubes and that person gets an attack of asthma. To keep the body strong, heavy exercise is done for hours, it causes them to feel stretch and pain in the lungs and they have trouble breathing.
Stress is a common thing in the kind of person living today but when this stress becomes so much then a person loses control of his physical and mental condition. In such a situation this mental stress remains for a long time that puts a bad effect on their body. In such a situation, the person laughing, crying, being happy or sad and thinking more, every situation has its side effects on their brain and body which directly hits their asthma.
Prevention from Asthma
Prevention of asthma is often considered to be very important as it rises to a small level and takes a serious form if ignored. To prevent asthma, the sufferer has to adopt various measures such as:
Protecting from dusty soil allergies as much as possible
Try to avoid taking so much stress
Taking appropriate medicines for any other disease to avoid side effects
The practice of yoga and exercise has to be done on a daily basis
Taking steps to ensure that the level of asthma is properly checked and treated accordingly
Making a habit of living in pure air and away from chemicals and polluted areas
Understanding and keeping correct information about your allergy, keeping symptoms in mind and avoiding getting affected
Get vaccinated periodically
Symptoms and Types
Symptoms of Asthma
If someone is suffering from asthma his symptoms are revealed only by his breathing process due to contraction and swelling in his respiratory tubes. Many symptoms of asthma can be revealed in a person like:
Difficulty in breathing and asphyxia
The first and foremost symptom of asthma is sensed in the event of shortness of breath. If a person suspects of having an asthma disease or if he has an asthma attack, he has to breathe hard to check his breathing.
Sweating and shivering
Due to suffocation sufferers suffering from asthma, a person starts feeling restless and nervous, he starts sweating and trembling hands and body. A person starts to lose control of himself and he constantly tries to breathe. Such conditions are sufficient to detect the symptoms of asthma.
Body fatigue
Early tiredness of the body can also be a symptom of asthma. In such a situation, the person gets tired of doing any small work and tiredness persists throughout the day and heaviness occurs in the body. In such a situation, the person starts breathing fast. In these circumstances, he can’t walk fast, run or climb up the stairs.
Feeling of heaviness in the head
Due to the narrowing of the lungs and blocking the passage of the airways, a person is not able to breathe properly which has a direct effect on his brain and he feels heaviness in the head. There is a kind of pressure in the head, the nerves start to stretch and the veins start to swell if a person is asthmatic.
Severe chest pain and rapid heartbeat
Severe pain starts in a person’s chest when he gets an asthma attack. This pain remains constant for the whole day or a few days. Due to the inhalation of the person, the extent of panic increases so much that his heartbeat also becomes faster than normal and sometimes this condition becomes more serious.
Types of Asthma.
Asthma disease is neither the same in every asthmatic nor the symptoms. Asthma can happen to anyone at any point of age whether it is children, older, female or male. There are also different types of asthma that can be treated properly according to their symptoms. These types are:
Genetic Asthma
Family history becomes a risk factor for asthma involving different genes. Genetic asthma is a type of genetically progressive asthma in which genes are transferred from one generation to another and then to the third generation and then react accordingly. These reactions of asthma can be due to any allergies, habits and physical deficiencies. If the father has asthma, it is not necessary that his son or daughter also has asthma, but his grandchildren have asthma.
Allergic Asthma
If a person is allergic to something like dust, dirt, smell, smoke, fine particles or any food item, there are breathing problems such as persistent cough, cold, nasal congestion or sneezing. It is known as allergic asthma. It is the most common type of asthma. Most children have this type of allergy.
Chronic cough and cold Asthma
It is common for any person to have a cough or cold. But when these coughs and colds become chronic or have been going on for a long time, it increases the swelling in the lungs and infects the lungs which cause trouble in breathing. Lungs become weak and constant dry and mucus cough and constant watery discharge come from the nose. Their bacteria reach inside the body to damage the lungs.
Vocational Asthma
It is known as occupational asthma when a person starts having asthma attacks due to his working space. If a person has any type of allergy due to the environment of his place of work, his asthma can emerge. The polluted air of the environment, dusty soil, factory smoke, poisonous gases etc. cause human beings to damage their lungs and respiratory tract. Apart from this, due to excessive work stress, one also gets asthma attacks.
Physical Exertion Asthma
Asthma due to physical exhaustion is that type of asthma in which human’s physical work is more. Normally, exercising causes more tiredness in the human body and at that time they come to know the symptoms of asthma. At the time of exercise or after hours, a person starts feeling constricted in the respiratory tract. During that time the person starts coughing continuously and the chest starts to get heavy and the breath starts blooming.
Complications
Complications of Asthma
The contraction and swelling in the airways causes trouble in breathing
Inability to detect asthma levels, side effects of medicines worsen the condition
Lack of energy
Tightness and mucus in the chest due to persistent cough
Stress and anxiety
Lack of sleep and restlessness throughout the day
Heaviness of the chest increases gradually.
US Patents
#6410059
#6896707
#7235262
Recognitions
GMP Registration
CLOSE
IP Rights Registration
CLOSE
World Book of Records
CLOSE
What Patients Are Saying
"Various studies have been conducted where Jain's Cow Urine Therapy has shown significant improvement in patients."
Electroencephalographic evidence for improved visual working memory performance during standing and exercise. | Semantic Scholar
Search 205,658,147 papers from all fields of science
Corpus ID: 52960179
@article{Dodwell2019ElectroencephalographicEF,
title={Electroencephalographic evidence for improved visual working memory performance during standing and exercise.},
author={Gordon Dodwell and Hermann J. M{\"u}ller and Thomas T{\"o}llner},
journal={British journal of psychology},
G. Dodwell, H. Müller, Thomas Töllner
While a substantial body of research has investigated the effects of aerobic exercise on cognitive performance, few have monitored exercise-concurrent cognitive processes via electroencephalography and fewer still using an event-related potential (ERP) approach. As such, little is known regarding how the temporal dynamics of cognitive processing are influenced during aerobic activity. Here, we aimed to elucidate the influence of aerobic exercise on the temporal dynamics of concurrent visual…
EEG evidence for enhanced attentional performance during moderate-intensity exercise.
G. Dodwell, H. Liesefeld, M. Conci, H. Müller, Thomas Töllner
Research on attentional control within real-world contexts has become substantially more feasible and thus frequent over the past decade. However, relatively little is known regarding how these…
Interactions between simultaneous aerobic exercise and mental rotation
Leonardo Jost, Andreas Weishäupl, P. Jansen
While the effects of aerobic exercise during a cognitive task on the performance of said cognitive task have been extensively studied, it has not been investigated whether cognitive performance…
The Immediate and Sustained Effects of Moderate-Intensity Continuous Exercise and High-Intensity Interval Exercise on Working Memory
Hong Mou, Shudong Tian, Qun Fang, Fanghui Qiu
Although both MICE and HIIE enhance working memory in young adults, the positive effect sustains longer in HIIe than that in MICE, suggesting that improvements in working memory with H IIE last longer than with MICE.
Current directions in visual working memory research: An introduction and emerging insights.
H. Liesefeld, H. Müller
An introduction into key terms and paradigms and an overview of ongoing debates in the field are given, to extract some 'emerging' theoretical insights concerning questions such as the optimal way to examine VWM.
Concurrent Performance of Executive Function during Acute Bouts of Exercise in Adults: A Systematic Review
Ke Zheng, L. Zou, Gaoxia Wei, Tao Huang
The review suggests mixed findings regarding the effects of an acute bout of exercise on concurrent performance of core EF, and exercise intensity seems to influence the effects.
Stephen Rhodes, N. Cowan
Common themes in current VWM research exemplified in this issue are summarized, which points to a rich interplay between representations in VWM but also between VWM and information in long-term memory.
Commentary Flexible representations in visual workingmemory and interactions with long-term learning : Commentary on the special issue
This special issue of the British Journal of Psychology brings together cutting edge research on a range of topics in visual workingmemory (VWM). In this commentary, we attempt to summarize common…
N. Swinnen, M. Vandenbulcke,
The findings of this pilot RCT suggest that an individually adapted exergame training improves lower extremity functioning, cognitive functioning and step reaction time and symptoms of depression in inpatients with MNCD residing in long-term care facilities.
E. D. de Bruin, H. Baur, Y. Brülhart, E. Luijckx, T. Hinrichs, S. Rogan
The technology based 8-week training programme consisting of a combination of stochastic resonance whole-body vibration and Exergame-dance training showed beneficial effects on both physical and cognitive performance in older care home dwelling adults.
The VITAAL Stepping Exergame Prototype for Older Adults With Major Neurocognitive Disorder: A Usability Study
N. Swinnen, E. D. de Bruin,
The results indicate that the stepping exergame is usable in older adults with major neurocognitive disorder residing in a long-term care facility.
M. Pontifex, C. Hillman
R. Olson, Yu-Kai Chang, C. J. Brush, Andrea N. Kwok, Valentina X. Gordon, B. Alderman
T. Bullock, H. Cecotti, B. Giesbrecht
Moderate intensity exercise facilitates working memory
A. Q. Martins, M. Kavussanu, Adrian R Willoughby, C. Ring
Selective Effects of Postural Control on Spatial vs. Nonspatial Working Memory: A Functional Near-Infrared Spectral Imaging Study
Yifan Chen, Yanglan Yu, R. Niu, Y. Liu
Postural control reduced discernment in the SWM task significantly, but did not affect NWM task performance, and the results suggest that postural control may share more cognitive resources with SWM than with NWM.
Positive effect of acute mild exercise on executive function via arousal-related prefrontal activations: An fNIRS study
Kyeongho Byun, Kazuki Hyodo,
Pierfilippo De Sanctis, J. Butler, J. M. Green, A. Snyder, J. Foxe
Significant links between cognitive load and gait abnormalities are seen in a number of clinical populations and these MoBI technologies provide highly promising methods for gaining insights into the underlying pathophysiology.
J. Anguera, P. Reuter-Lorenz, D. Willingham, R. Seidler
Findings suggest that the early, but not late, phase of visuomotor adaptation engages spatial working memory processes, similar to previous studies of motor learning.
New study explains how obesity can lead to breast cancer
Thursday, Dec 02, 2021 | Last Update : 02:55 PM IST
Lifestyle Health and Wellbeing 22 Oct 2017 New study explains h ...
Published Oct 22, 2017, 12:03 pm IST
Updated Oct 22, 2017, 12:03 pm IST
As obesity is on the rise worldwide so are a variety of health issues.
New study explains how obesity can lead to breast cancer. (Photo: Pexels)
Washington: A new study revealed how obesity can contribute to promote breast cancer in women. Obesity leads to the release of cytokines into the bloodstream, which impacts the metabolism of breast cancer cells, making them more aggressive as a result.
The study stated an as yet unknown mechanism making breast cancer more aggressive. The enzyme ACC1* plays a central role in this process," said Dr. Mauricio Berriel Diaz, deputy director of the Institute for Diabetes and Cancer (IDC) at Helmholtz Zentrum München.
"ACC1 is a key component of fatty acid synthesis," Diaz added. "However, its function is impaired by the cytokines leptin and TGF-ß." The levels of these cytokines are increased particularly in the blood of severely overweight subjects.
"Blocking the signalling pathways and switching off the metastasis-related genes could be a therapeutic target," Herzig said. "As part of the so-called neoadjuvant therapy, the risk of metastases or the recurrence of tumours could be reduced prior to the surgical removal of the tumour."
http://www.hpolyeedy.cf
Common Health Benefits of Clapping That Can Change Your Life Leading to a Healthy Future
Most people today would be surprised to realize that clapping or applauding with hands is a good exercise for the body that helps to stimulate the organs resulting in its smooth functioning hence scientific research have proved the fact that little babies who have the habit of clapping grow up with smart brains. This physical movement is the direct key to living a cheerful and stress-free life as striking with the palms is a therapy, related to celebrations as well as achievements thus play a major role in healing depression, hypertension, occasional headaches and problems such as hair fall. Clapping during the morning hours of the day such as while praying at the holy places or singing songs helps to activate a large section of the brain gradually improving the health. It is also a useful medicine for curing pains such as arthritis or any other form of ailment in the different parts of the body.
Doctors have suggested for applying to both the hands some coconut or palm oil so as to stimulate the pressure points in the fingers and make them active in order to create energy waves in the body. By striking both the hands helps in better blood circulation in the veins and arteries and is extremely beneficial for those with cholesterol problems. Also, children who are prone to clapping on a daily basis in the schools are likely to have bright academic prospects as they make less spelling mistakes than others as well as increase the levels of concentration. This exercise also helps to improve digestion and make the body more immune to diseases thus allowing to one to remain fit and healthy all life.
In present times the residential areas have established amusement parks for the people to gather for exercises and morning walks. Some of them go there for clapping as a routine affair to have positive effects both on the body and mind. A few minutes of claps can help in better secretion of hormones as well as keep the heart healthy by removing all the obstructions from the blood vessels and other channels. Patients suffering from low pressure can also raise their hands and clap for a faster recovery. It is also extremely effective for enhancing the nervous system hence those spend some time from their hectic schedules for clapping daily feel fresh and active throughout the day. It also acts as a medicine in reducing the blood sugar levels as well as help in curing certain mental diseases such as insomnia, protects the body from infections such as common cold and lungs related problems such as asthma and eye defects. Biologically the hands and palms are the settlements for reflex points that ensure the healing response to the entire body system thereby the health benefits of clapping as a yoga exercise is innumerably resulting in the healthy development of the body for the people of all ages.
Milnacipran was recently approved by FDA for the management of fibromyalgia syndrome. Clinical trials have demonstrated that this agent may be a reasonable alternative or adjunct therapy for patients with fibromyalgia syndrome who are unable to tolerate first-line tricyclic antidepressant therapy.
Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a condition classified by widespread chronic pain and is associated with fatigue, morning stiffness, and disordered sleep. Milnacipran is a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) that was recently approved by FDA for the management of FMS. In clinical trials, milnacipran has demonstrated efficacy in reducing FMS symptoms, with patients exhibiting response rates of 25% to 33%. Milnacipran is generally well tolerated and has minimal interactions with concomitant drug therapies. Nausea was the adverse event most frequently reported in clinical trials. In patients with FMS who are unable to tolerate first-line tricyclic antidepressant therapy, milnacipran may be a reasonable alternative or adjunct therapy. (Formulary. 2009;44:197–202.)
Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a rheumatologic disorder characterized by chronic nonlocalized pain and tenderness. The chronic pain condition is classified by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) as ≥3 months of widespread pain in combination with tenderness at ≥11 of 18 defined tender point sites.1 In addition to chronic pain, 73% to 85% of patients with FMS also report experiencing fatigue, morning stiffness, and sleep disorders.1 Patients may also experience myriad auxiliary symptoms, such as irritable bowel or bladder, depression, anxiety, paresthesias, headaches, and cognitive disturbances.2
Antidepressant agents offer unique mechanisms within the neurohormonal system that may alleviate symptoms that commonly affect quality of life in patients with FMS. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) have been associated with reductions in pain, fatigue, and disordered sleep independent of reduction in depression in patients with FMS.4,5 TCAs have been considered first-line therapy in treating FMS, but their use is limited by their anticholinergic side-effect profile.
Milnacipran (Savella, Forest/Cypress) is an orally administered SNRI that was recently approved for the management of FMS.5,6
Milnacipran ([±]-[1R(S),2S(R)]-2-[aminomethyl]-N, N-diethyl-1-phenyl-cyclopropanecarboxamide hydrochloride) is an SNRI that has demonstrated greater inhibition of norepinephrine than of serotonin in rat hypothalamus.6 This agent also has some affinity for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor but does not bind to dopamine, histamine, or muscarinic receptors and thus lacks many of the side effects of TCAs.6,7 Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans performed after administration of milnacipran have demonstrated increased brain activity in specific areas of the brain (caudatus nucleus, anterior insula, anterior cingulum, and amygdala) that are involved in the pain response in FMS.8
Clauw et al10 conducted a study of 1,196 patients with FMS across 86 US centers. This was a registration trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of milnacipran in a larger patient population. Eligible patients were required to have a score ≥4 on the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) and a VAS pain score of ≥40 (scale, 0–100). All patients had an FMS diagnosis based on ACR criteria and had to discontinue all CNS-active therapy, as well as medications that would interfere with the evaluation of FMS symptoms; however, patients were allowed to use hydrocodone as rescue therapy (maximum dose, 60 mg/d). Patients entered a 1- to 4-week washout period, followed by a 2-week baseline assessment period. Eligible patients were then randomized to treatment with milnacipran 100 mg/d, milnacipran 200 mg/d, or placebo. Milnacipran-treated patients received 12.5 mg on Day 1, 12.5 mg twice/d for 2 days, 25 mg twice/d for 4 days, and 50 mg twice/d for 7 days. Patients who were randomized to the 200-mg/d group received 100 mg twice/d for 7 days. All other randomized patients underwent placebo dose-escalation to maintain blinding. All patients remained on a stable dose from Weeks 3 to 15, and any patient who was intolerant of the assigned dose was dropped from the trial.
At study end, significantly more patients treated with milnacipran than those treated with placebo met the 3 criteria for improvement (changes in morning-recall VAS pain scores, global status on PGIC, and SF-36 PCS score) in FMS symptom response (observed cases [OC] analysis: milnacipran 100 mg/d, 25%; P≤.01 vs placebo; milnacipran 200 mg/d, 26%; P≤.001 vs placebo; placebo, 13%).10 Both doses of milnacipran significantly decreased the composite pain response versus placebo (OC analysis: milnacipran 100 mg/d, 39%; milnacipran 200 mg/d, 46%; placebo, 25%; P≤.001 for both vs placebo). There were also significant differences with both doses of milnacipran in secondary outcomes, including time-weighted averages of weekly mean PED morning-recall pain scores (last observation carried forward [LOCF] analysis, mean ± standard error of the mean [SEM]: milnacipran 100 mg/d, 44.3±0.9; milnacipran 200 mg/d, 43.3±1.0; placebo, 48.9±0.9; P≤.001 for both vs placebo) and PGIC scores (LOCF analysis, mean ± SEM: milnacipran 100 mg/d, 3.1±0.1; milnacipran 200 mg/d, 3.0±0.1; placebo, 3.5±0.1; P≤.001 for both vs placebo). Time-weighted averages of SF-36 PCS reached statistical significance only in the milnacipran 100-mg/d group (LOCF analysis, mean ± SEM: milnacipran 100 mg/d, 35.3±0.4; P≤.001 vs placebo).
The most common adverse effect was nausea, which occurred in 34.3%, 37.6%, and 19.2% of patients treated with milnacipran 100 mg/d, milnacipran 200 mg/d, and placebo, respectively.10 Other adverse effects that occurred more frequently with milnacipran than with placebo were constipation, hot flushing, dizziness, palpitations, hyperhidrosis, hypertension, vomiting, tachycardia, and migraine. More patients treated with milnacipran 100 or 200 mg/d discontinued therapy because of adverse effects than those treated with placebo (19.5%, 23.7%, and 9.5%, respectively). The 2 milnacipran doses demonstrated similar efficacy; however, more adverse events were reported in patients receiving milnacipran 200 mg/d. This study demonstrated that milnacipran not only had an effect on pain but also improved fatigue and patient-reported cognitive complaints.
Mease et al11 randomized 888 patients from 59 centers in the United States to treatment with milnacipran 100 mg/d, milnacipran 200 mg/d, or placebo for 6 months. Patients had to discontinue all CNS active therapies but could continue taking acetaminophen, aspirin, and stable doses of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Patients could use hydrocodone ≤60 mg/d as rescue therapy; however, they could not use this therapy for 48 hours before study visits or during each 2-week period preceding the primary end point (Weeks 14–15 and 26–27). Patients were excluded from the study if they had a severe psychiatric illness. Eligible patients entered a 1- to 4-week washout period and then entered a 2-week baseline period. A greater proportion of patients was randomized to milnacipran 200 mg/d than to milnacipran 100 mg/d or placebo for the collection of long-term safety data. All patients underwent a dose-escalation period of 3 weeks, including those treated with placebo to ensure blinding. Milnacipran-treated patients were scheduled to receive 24 weeks of a stable dose of milnacipran (27-week exposure in total).
At 15 weeks, a greater proportion of patients treated with milnacipran 100 and 200 mg/d had met the criteria for a composite responder than those treated with placebo (OC analysis: milnacipran 100 mg/d, 32.8%; P≤.003 vs placebo; milnacipran 200 mg/d, 32.8%; P≤.001 vs placebo; placebo, 17.3%). At 6 months, 31.9% (P≤.017 vs placebo) of patients treated with milnacipran 200 mg/d and 33.3% (P≤.056) of those treated with milnacipran 100 mg/d were composite FMS responders compared with 19% of placebo-treated patients (OC analysis). A statistically significant reduction in pain was observed within 1 week of initiation of milnacipran therapy in both treatment groups and continued throughout the duration of the study, with maximal pain relief observed at 9 weeks. In the OC analysis, 45.2% (P=.003 vs placebo) of patients treated with milnacipran 100 mg/d and 45.4% (P<.001 vs placebo) of patients treated with milnacipran 200 mg/d were FMS pain composite responders versus 27.2% of patients treated with placebo. Milnacipran-treated patients also experienced improvements in physical functioning, fatigue, and cognition as measured by the SF-36 domains of physical functioning, Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI) total score, and Multiple Ability Self-report Questionnaire (MASQ) score. There were statistically significant improvements in physical functioning (mean change from baseline, 3.55; P<.05 vs placebo), bodily pain (mean change from baseline, 6.05; P<.01 vs placebo), and mental health (mean change from baseline, 3.70; P<.01 vs placebo) as measured by the SF-36 in the milnacipran 200-mg/d group versus placebo. Milnacipran 200 mg/d was also associated with a statistically significant mean change from baseline in fatigue versus placebo at 15 and 27 weeks (MFI score: milnacipran 200 mg/d, –5.62 at Week 15 and –5.80 at Week 27; placebo, –3.04 at Week 15 and –3.35 at Week 27; P<.05). Mean changes in patients' baseline perception of cognitive function were greater in the milnacipran 200-mg/d group versus the placebo group (milnacipran 200 mg/d, –2.28 at Week 15 and –2.68 at Week 27; placebo, 0.10 at Week 15 and 0.16 at Week 27; P<.05). There was no difference among groups with respect to sleep quality or quantity as measured by the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS)-Sleep Problems Indices.
At 6 months, 43%, 46%, and 35% of patients in the milnacipran 100-mg/d, milnacipran 200-mg/d, and placebo groups, respectively, had discontinued therapy. Most patients discontinued therapy because of adverse events (milnacipran 100 mg/d, 19.6%; milnacipran 200 mg/d, 27%; placebo, 10.3%).11 The overall incidence of side effects was 90.7%, 83.9%, and 85.2% in patients treated with milnacipran 200 mg/d, milnacipran 100 mg/d, and placebo, respectively. The most commonly reported adverse event was nausea, consistent with other clinical trials. This trial and the trial by Clauw et al10 may have limited applicability to patients with FMS who have psychiatric disorders, as these patients were excluded from these studies. It is not known how many patients were excluded because of psychiatric illness in each study; however, in the study by Clauw et al,10 53% of screened patients were excluded, and in the study by Mease et al,11 46% of screened patients were excluded.
Branco et al12 conducted a phase 3 European trial involving 678 patients at 83 centers. Eligible patients were required to have a mean daily VAS pain score of 20 to 90, FIQ-Physical Function (PF) subscore ≥3, and a Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) score ≤25 at baseline. Patients were randomized to milnacipran 100 mg twice/d or placebo for 12 weeks after a 4-week dose escalation. Patients underwent a 9-day down-titration after 12 weeks of therapy and were assessed at 2 weeks after treatment. The primary end point was pain composite responder rate and the PGIC at 16 weeks. The primary end point was measured in the same way as in Clauw et al10 and Mease et al.11 Patients were excluded if they had a severe psychiatric illness; eligible patients had to discontinue all CNS active therapies, as in previous trials.10,11 A major secondary end point was FIQ total score as measured by weekly recall self-assessment at on-site visits.
Milnacipran was associated with a higher composite response rate than was placebo (24.2% vs 14.6%; OR=1.9; P=.0003). The FIQ-Total score was significantly improved in patients treated with milnacipran versus those treated with placebo (adjusted mean difference, –3; P=.015). Patients treated with milnacipran demonstrated improvements in pain (morning VAS, P<.0001 vs placebo), quality of life (both mental and physical, as measured by FIQ-Total-Modified and SF-36 mental component score [MCS], P<.01 vs placebo), fatigue (MFI-Total, P<.01 vs placebo), global status (PGIC, P<.0001 vs placebo), and cognition (MASQ-Total, P<.05 vs placebo). Withdrawal of treatment because of adverse events was 22.3% and 9.9% in the milnacipran and placebo groups, respectively. This study demonstrated that milnacipran 200 mg/d improved pain and overall functioning for patients with FMS with minimal side effects.
Milnacipran was well tolerated in clinical trials. The most frequently reported adverse event was nausea, occurring in 32% to 40% of patients.13 Other common adverse events (incidence ≥5%) were noradrenergic in nature, such as dry mouth, hyperhidrosis, headache, hot flush, and constipation.7,9 In clinical trials, the incidence of early discontinuation of milnacipran because of adverse events was 22% to 27%.10–12
Compared with TCAs, milnacipran may have fewer anticholinergic and alpha-adrenergic effects.7 Milnacipran may have more noradrenergic effects but fewer serotonergic effects than duloxetine or venlafaxine.7 Milnacipran is unlikely to have a significant effect on cardiac function. In studies, palpitations were reported in 7% to 8% of milnacipran-treated patients.9 This agent does not significantly increase blood pressure, unlike venlafaxine, and has only a minimal association with increases in heart rate.7,9 However, increases in blood pressure and heart rate may occur, and manufacturer labeling recommends monitoring of these parameters.9
Milnacipran is unlikely to have many pharmacokinetic interactions with concomitant drug therapies because this agent undergoes minimal CYP450 metabolism, is mostly excreted unchanged in the urine, and has low plasma protein binding. Milnacipran may, however, interact with other drugs from a pharmacodynamic perspective.9 Serotonin syndrome may occur when milnacipran is administered with lithium, which impairs serotonin metabolism, or when milnacipran is administered with serotonergic drugs.9 Because milnacipran inhibits reuptake of norepinephrine, caution should be exercised when milnacipran is administered with epinephrine and norepinephrine, as concomitant use may lead to paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmia; milnacipran may also oppose clonidine's antihypertensive effect.9 Concomitant milnacipran and intravenous digoxin use should be avoided, as coadministration of these agents has been reported to cause postural hypotension and tachycardia.9 Reports of postural hypotension and euphoria have also been documented when clomipramine is replaced with milnacipran.9 As milnacipran is centrally acting, general caution should be exercised when this agent is used with other centrally acting drugs. Concomitant use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated.9
Dr Cios and Dr Kim are senior clinical pharmacists, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
1. Wolfe F, Smythe HA, Yunus MB, et al. The American College of Rheumatology 1990 criteria for the classification of fibromyalgia: Report of the Multicenter Criteria Committee. Arthritis Rheum. 1990;33:160–172.
2. Lawson K. Emerging pharmacological therapies for fibromyalgia. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2006; 7:631–636.
4. Crofford LJ. Pain management in fibromyalgia. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2008;20:246–250.
5. Uceyler N, Hauser W, Sommer C. A systematic review on the effectiveness of treatment with antidepressants in fibromyalgia syndrome. Arthritis Rheum. 2008;59:1279–1298.
6. Owen RT. Milnacipran hydrochloride: Its efficacy, safety and tolerability profile in fibromyalgia syndrome. Drugs Today (Barc). 2008;44:653–660.
7. Leo RJ, Brooks VL. Clinical potential of milnacipran, a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, in pain. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2006;7:637–642.
8. Gracely RH, Jensen K, Petzke F, et al. The effect of milnacipran on pain modulatory systems in fibromyalgia: An fMRI analysis [abstract]. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008;67(suppl 2):255.
9. Savella [package insert]. New York, NY: Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 2009.
10. Clauw DJ, Mease P, Palmer RH, Gendreau RM, Wang Y. Milnacipran for the treatment of fibromyalgia in adults: A 15-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multiple-dose clinical trial [erratum in Clin Ther. 2009;31:446]. Clin Ther. 2008;30:1988–2004.
11. Mease PJ, Clauw DJ, Gendreau RM, et al. The efficacy and safety of milnacipran for treatment of fibromyalgia. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial [erratum in J Rheumatol. 2009;36:661]. J Rheumatol. 2009;36:398–409.
12. Branco JC, Perrot S, Bragee G, et al. Milnacipran for the treatment of fibromyalgia syndrome: A European multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial [abstract]. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008;67(suppl 2):251.
13. Vitton O, Gendreau M, Gendreau J, Kranzler R, Rao SG. A double-blind placebo-controlled trial of milnacipran in the treatment of fibromyalgia. Hum Psychopharmacol. 2004;19(suppl 1):S27–S35.
14. Gendreau RM, Thorn MD, Gendreau JF, et al. Efficacy of milnacipran in patients with fibromyalgia. J Rheumatol. 2005;32:1975–1985.
oxaliplatin | PeaceHealth
Oxaliplatin is injected into a vein through an IV. You will receive this injection in a clinic or hospital setting. Oxaliplatin must be given slowly, and the infusion can take at least 2 hours to complete.
Oxaliplatin is given once every 2 weeks. Your doctor will determine how long to treat you with this medicine.
You may be given medication to prevent nausea or vomiting while you are receiving oxaliplatin.
signs of infection --fever, chills, sore throat, mouth and throat ulcers, pain when swallowing, cough with mucus.
infections, unusual bleeding;
Other drugs may interact with oxaliplatin, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Tell each of your health care providers about all medicines you use now and any medicine you start or stop using.
