While it is always important for health care professionals to be fully aware of all medicines or therapies a patient is taking, it is especially important in surgical patients because of potential herbal interactions with medications and anesthetic agents used during the surgical procedure; and the potential for adverse reactions including effects on coagulation, blood pressure, sedation, electrolytes or dieresis [9, 14–22]. Patients having elective surgery are usually counseled to discontinue certain medications prior to surgery, especially anticoagulation agents, diuretics, and oral hypoglycemics. It is important for surgeons and anesthesiologists to be familiar with natural products and their perioperative implications. However, one survey demonstrated that the majority of physicians were not familiar with the side effect profiles of many herbal products and did not recommend stopping herbal medications in the perioperative period [15]. Another study evaluating the knowledge and practice of family medical residents found that, when asked to match an herbal product to a drug interaction, the mean test score was 32% [23].
Pharmacist-mediated medication reconciliation efforts at the University of Kansas Hospital (KUH) have documented preoperative use of natural products by surgical patients. The Anesthesia Preoperative Evaluation Clinic (APEC) is a clinic within KUH where patients scheduled for surgery receive a pre-surgery evaluation by a nurse and meet with a pharmacist to discuss their medications. KUH has developed a Pre-Surgical Medication Counseling Form which provides discontinuation counseling information for specified medications. The role of the pharmacist is to obtain an accurate medication history from the patient and provide recommendations for discontinuation of the patient's medications in regards to their surgical procedure. The role of the nurse is to obtain an accurate medical history from the patient and draw any necessary laboratory work and conduct an EKG, if necessary. If any EKG abnormalities are noted, or if concerns are raised about the patient's safety during surgery, an anesthesiologist will meet with the patient and address the concerns. Most patient appointments in the APEC are scheduled one week prior to surgery; however walk-in appointments are welcome.
Current recommendations given to patients regarding natural product use include a statement recommending discontinuation 14 days prior to surgery. This implicates a potential problem: as noted above, most patients are scheduled one week prior to their surgery. Additionally, two of the three patient rooms had a chart which included pharmacological effects, perioperative concerns and preoperative discontinuation of specific herbs (see Table 1). However, the chart was not complete or accurate and did not provide references. In consideration of these current problems, the primary objective of this study is to identify patterns of natural product use and their potential complications among patients scheduled for surgery. Secondary objectives include improving existing medication reconciliation efforts, and developing discontinuation guidelines for the use of these products prior to surgery.
Elevation Oncology Announces the Presentation of Preclinical Data on the Specific Inhibition of HER3 to Block NRG1 Fusion Signaling - Elevation Oncology
Elevation Oncology Announces the Presentation of Preclinical Data on the Specific Inhibition of HER3 to Block NRG1 Fusion Signaling
Preclinical Data Research NRG1 fusion HER3 Publication
– Inhibition of HER3 by seribantumab reduces tumor volume by 50-100% in preclinical in vivo models containing an NRG1 fusion –
– Presentation of the data at the 32nd EORTC-NCI-AACR Symposium on Molecular Targets and Cancer Therapeutics –
NEW YORK, NY – October 26, 2020 – Elevation Oncology, a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of precision medicines for patients with genomically defined cancers, announced today the presentation of preclinical data on the specific inhibition of NRG1 fusion signaling by seribantumab, a HER3 monoclonal antibody, at the 32nd EORTC-NCI-AACR Symposium on Molecular Targets and Cancer Therapeutics (Odintsov et al., 2020). The data support the scientific rationale for the Phase 2 CRESTONE study for patients with solid tumors of any origin that have an NRG1 gene fusion. The CRESTONE study is currently enrolling at sites across the US. Details on the CRESTONE study have recently been presented at both the AACR Virtual Special Conference: Pancreatic Cancer (Bendell et al., 2020) and the North American Conference on Lung Cancer (Spigel et al., 2020).
"The preclinical research on HER3 inhibition in disease models of cancers with NRG1 gene fusions is encouraging," said Igor Odintsov, MD, Research Fellow, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSK) and lead author of the abstract, who performed this study with Romel Somwar, PhD, in The Marc Ladanyi Lab at MSK. "The data demonstrate that treatment with seribantumab results in decreased phosphorylation of not only HER3 but also its dimerization partners HER2, HER4, and EGFR, and downstream PI3K and MAPK signaling pathways, suggesting efficient inhibition across HER3 and the entire ERBB signaling pathway. Administration of seribantumab resulted in significant tumor shrinkage of tumors that contain an NRG1 gene fusion in in vivo models of lung and ovarian cancer with an approximately 50% and 90-100% tumor reduction, respectively. These results support the potential of HER3 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy in patients that have tumors harboring an NRG1 fusion."
Seribantumab's primary mechanism of action in the NRG1 fusion model is through inhibition of ligand-dependent activation of HER3 (also known as ERBB3). Seribantumab also interferes with the dimerization of HER3 with other ERBB family members and blocks the phosphorylation of all ERBB family members and activation of the PI3K and MAPK downstream signaling pathways.
"Precise therapy development is needed to ensure that patients and their physicians have treatment options that make their genomic test results actionable," said Lori Kunkel, MD, Chair of the Elevation Oncology Scientific Advisory Board. "These data outline the scientific rationale for targeted inhibition of HER3 when an NRG1 gene fusion is detected. The specific inhibition of HER3 with the monoclonal antibody seribantumab results in significant tumor reduction and sustained disease control in models of cancers driven by an NRG1 gene fusion. These preclinical results are now being clinically evaluated in the Phase 2 CRESTONE study for patients with solid tumors harboring an NRG1 gene fusion."
"Seribantumab demonstrates significant activity in preclinical models through the destabilization of HER3 and the entire ERBB signaling pathway," said Shawn Leland, PharmD, RPh, Founder and Chief Business Officer of Elevation Oncology. "In tumors with an NRG1 fusion, HER3 signaling activated by NRG1 fusion proteins is most often the unique oncogenic driver. It is critical for patients to have the appropriate genomic test to detect the presence of an NRG1 fusion and we have partnered with multiple diagnostic companies, major academic centers and community practices to expand access to the CRESTONE study. We believe that this collaborative approach offers the best opportunity to identify patients who may benefit from treatment with seribantumab and allows us to meet them where they are, especially during the time of COVID-19 where immunocompromised patients with cancer are reluctant to travel."
Diagnostic partnerships will enhance traditional patient enrollment in the CRESTONE study through real-time, nationwide identification of NRG1 fusion positive patients within the Ashion Analytics, Strata Oncology, Tempus, Caris Life Sciences, and US Oncology Research partner networks. Through the various partnership models, patients may also be enrolled in CRESTONE either through active referral to current strategic sites or "just-in-time" site initiation within the partner networks.
Thank you for your business!You should be receiving an order confirmation from Paypal shortly.Exit Shopping Cart
CCHAP Meals on Wheels Program!
Toggle Navigation
Home
About
Contact
Store
COVID-19 Statement
Home
About
Contact
Store
COVID-19 Statement
A food delivery service in Cleveland Ohio offering nutritious meals to those in need.
A Program of Collaboration Station, a 501c3 nonprofit organization
LEARN MORE
CCHAP Meals
Delivering meals to those with physical disabilities and to individuals with chronic or acute health conditions who need healthy, home-cooked, nutritious meals prepared for them.
1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW
CCHAP Meals
In addition to home delivered meals, our agency provides assistance to those in need of Medical Nutrition Therapy (MNT) through our licensed Dietitian on staff
+012 345 6789
​CCHAP Meals
Delivers Meals On Wheels to ages 22 and older to ensure they have healthy, nutritious food to eat at home. We also provide meals to individuals with physical limitations as well as those in crisis and emergency situations.
[email protected]
Welcome! CCHAP Meals on Wheels serves fresh, natural and organic foods prepared by our personal chefs for those in need. The health and wellness of seniors and those with chronic and acute conditions is important to us which is the reason why we use the Food as Medicine model to guide every meal we prepare. We cater to all different meal types to include diabetic friendly, Pescatarian and Vegetarian and Gluten-Free.
Buy Androxal Online for testicular function OnlineGenericMedicine
Why is Androxal prescribed? Polycystic ovary syndrome is a hormonal disorder that hinders the ovulation process when the ovary releases an egg. As a result, ovaries become inflamed and develop cysts, which further result in irregular menstrual period...Read More
Enclomiphene Citrate (En-clofe
Generic: Enclomiphene
Equivalent: Androxal
90 Tablet/s $54.50
Enclomiphene Citrate (En-...
Generic: Enclomiphene...
Why is Androxal prescribed?
Polycystic ovary syndrome is a hormonal disorder that hinders the ovulation process when the ovary releases an egg. As a result, ovaries become inflamed and develop cysts, which further result in irregular menstrual periods. Women who face pregnancy failure due to PCOS and ovulatory dysfunction is often recommended Androxal (Clomiphene) to rule out this condition. It can temporarily correct the ovulation process in women dealing with infertility.
How to use Androxal?
The doctor will ask you to start clomiphene orally on either day of your menstrual cycle. One pill needs to be taken for five days. Ovulation often occurs between 13-18 days of your cycle. In case, one's fails to ovulate, the doctor may increase the dosage.
Clomiphene is often taken in combination with other medicines to induce mensuration and ovulation in women who do not have a fixed menstrual cycle.
What if I miss the dose of Androxal (Clomiphene)?
It is always recommended to take the dose at the same time every day. In case, you have missed it, take it as soon as you remember. Do not double dose or take the missed dose, if you are near the time for your next dose.
The dosage of this medication is different for different patients. Follow your doctor's directions before changing the dose and the number of times you take it. The duration of the medication also depends on the medical condition you have.
The side-effects of using Androxal are:
Check with your doctor if any of these symptoms are bothersome.
Some of the medicines should not be taken together at all. Therefore, your doctor should always be informed about all the medications you are taking to avoid any drug interaction.
Also, the existence of any other medical problem may affect the usage of clomiphene. Make sure you inform your doctor if you are suffering from a cyst on the ovary, fibroid tumor of the uterus, inflamed veins due to blood clots, endometriosis, liver disease, depression, unusual vaginal bleeding, etc.
When this medication is taken, regular visits to the doctor are necessary to check the progress and effectiveness of the medication on you. In case, you think you are pregnant. Don't delay! Taking clomiphene while you are pregnant may cause birth defects.
Research Community - Coronavirus (COVID-19)
Here you will find information and guidelines for Ulster's research community, including PhD researchers.
Ulster University experts are tackling the Covid-19 pandemic from every angle, and leveraging global partnership networks to support the local, national and international response.
All Researchers are reminded that there may be a delay in accessing the emergency services in the event of an accident at work. As such, essential research must be of a low risk basis.
As it is possible that issues relating to Covid-19 could cause setbacks to research, this section is intended to highlight specific factors that occur more frequently in a research context and to aid planning as an individual researcher or as the leader of a research team.
Setbacks could range from minor delays through to the irrecoverable loss of significant work. It is recommended to proactively consider the likely impacts and develop contingency plans.
COVID 19 Outbreak Expert Database
The UK Government is seeking prompt access to researchers who can provide expert insights relating to both Coronavirus, and its impacts across a diverse and comprehensive range of sectors.
Ulster University researchers with expertise in these fields are invited to sign up to Parliament's Knowledge Exchange Unit (KEU) COVID-19 Outbreak Expert Database.
Details of the research expertise that may be needed are found on the sign-up page. Signing up does not commit you to contributing; but will enable Parliament to contact you promptly.
In these extraordinary times, Ulster University's research community may deliver valuable insights and progress in responding to COVID19 and its impacts.
These FAQs for our research community will be kept up to date as far as possible in line with this rapidly evolving situation. Please ensure that you continue to follow general University, PHA and other guidance in the meantime.
We will continue to closely monitor this fast-moving situation as it relates to research activity; with regular updates on these web pages, on Twitter and through our usual communications channels.
Supervisory arrangements for PhD Researchers
Frequently Asked Question section for PhD Research is available
Arising from the UK's response to Coronavirus (COVID19) and the emerging priorities for universities and their skilled research communities, here you will find the latest updates on the UK's planning for REF 2021, including adjusted deadlines.
The REF team has advised (24th March) that full contingency arrangements for the REF 2021 exercise are underway as a matter of urgency. It is recognised that institutions are needing to divert staff resource to other critical areas, including for those working in clinical and health-related fields.
Such activities should be prioritised without concern for the effect on REF preparations. The REF exercise has been put on hold until further notice to enable this, and adapted details of the framework are being developed.
The submission deadline on 27 November 2020 will no longer apply, and a new submission deadline will be announced no later than eight months prior to the deadline. Full allowance will be made for the impact of coronavirus across affected areas of submissions.
The UK research funding bodies recognise the significant effort that has been invested so far by institutions in preparations for the current REF cycle. In view of this, and following the Minister's advice to universities on supporting their staff, the REF staff census date (31 July 2020) remains unchanged.
The full impact on universities as they respond to calls to support the national effort in the face of COVID-19 is yet to be fully understood. As greater clarity about the period of serious disruption to universities emerges, REF will undertake a light touch consultation on the adapted details of the framework, in view of these challenging times.
The 3 April deadline for nominations to the expert panels has been lifted and nominations may continue to be made until further notice; an appropriate notice period will be given once a new deadline is in place
Research Suspensions
What action do we take in relation to human research studies that involve direct contact?
All face-to-face research involving human participants in the community must be conducted in line with current government regulations and guidelines on social interaction/distancing and any travel restrictions in force at the time. Visits to multiple locations for data collection are discouraged.
Where research is being undertaken within another organisation (e.g. school, workplace), researchers should adhere to the host organisation's guidelines and requirements.
Community research involving face-to-face contact with participants who have pre-existing health conditions and who are shielding or physically vulnerable should not resume at this point. Alternative methods of contact should be considered.
Research involving data collection or similar activities in health and social care settings must be conducted in line with guidance issued by DoH/HSCNI/NIHR and the NI HSC trusts and other appropriate bodies.
Wherever possible, in line with current advice and new restrictions, alternative methods for the collection of data should be considered and used.
What action do we take in relation to participation in research on campus?
Research involving participants on campus is currently permitted subject to appropriate arrangements having been made through the research reboarding process and the observation and maintenance of a safe environment for researchers and visitors.
For interventional treatment/trials and similar studies, there will be further considerations that CIs/PIs should take into account, and these should be addressed on a case-by-case basis.
Can other forms of research survey continue?
Studies involving online, postal or telephone surveys can continue for the time being; however, colleagues are asked to ensure that all relevant advice and guidance is kept under review and to check the University's COVID-19 webpages regularly for updates.
For the latest information from the HRA on studies in the HSC and NHS, please go to https://www.hra.nhs.uk/planning-and-improving-research/policies-standards-legislation/covid-19-guidance-sponsors-sites-and-researchers/
Can I recommence my research with human subjects?
Research involving data collection or similar activities in health and social care settings must be conducted in line with guidance issued by HSC and the NI HSC trusts and other appropriate bodies.
If the university closes should I continue my research from home?
If the university closes then you should continue with any work that you can do remotely (this could include literature reviews, writing, etc.) as far as this is practicable.
Can research staff and PhD researchers still come on campus to continue lab-based experiments?
The University Is advising students not to come on Campus and all Computing Labs are closed.
We recognise there may be instances where experiments are running that are essential to manage on-campus, however, no one is expected to come onto campus unless they are happy to do so.
PIs and PhD supervisors are advised to direct their projects and researchers accordingly.
I am in the middle of data collection or about to start data collection on my project – what should I do?
What you do will depend on the nature of the data collection being undertaken and it is difficult to advise on each researcher situation.
For some researchers, data collection may involve running assays or other experiments within university labs, for others it could involve bringing volunteers into the university or travelling out to collect data in schools, clinics, hospitals or other community locations.
Please refer to the guidance at the top of the page.
If my research involves online, postal or telephone surveys but no contact with participants, can I continue?If my research involves online, postal or telephone surveys but no contact with participants, can I continue?
Yes, for the time being, but please be aware of changing guidance and advice and be sensitive to participants' circumstances.
Will my human tissue samples be kept secure during any closedown?
Yes, the University will ensure that steps are taken to continue the monitoring of freezers and their contents, with appropriate response to alarms to ensure – as far as possible – that samples are secure.
How will I know when I am permitted to resume research involving contact with human participants?
The University will keep the guidance under review and will provide regular updates.
It is likely that restrictions on research with human participants will remain in place until government advice on social distancing changes.
I am a contract researcher, will my contract be extended?
The University is working with our research funders and partners and will ensure that project extensions are sought wherever necessary.
Please liaise with your PI for updates.
Advice on COVD-19 from research funders
If my research is externally funded through a grant, will my project be extended beyond its funded period to compensate for the period of closure?
At the moment, only no cost extension requests to UKRI and EU research grants will be allowed.
The University's Department for Research and Impact are currently liaising with research funding bodies and we will keep funded researchers updated should this change.
I am currently working on a research proposal – will the deadline be extended?
UKRI and the EU are both extending deadlines for the submission of research grant proposals. Please liaise with the Research Development team within the University's Department for Research and Impact for details of revisions to proposal deadlines. Please note that the notification of outcomes of research grant proposals are also likely to be impacted.
ALZIEMERS RESEARCH UK
Access to research data and systems
Researchers are encouraged to use Sharepoint or onedrive while working with research data to ensure data is secure and accessible to all members of the research team.
Researchers who require access to the University's secure servers to access data or applications twill need to complete the Secure Remote Access Service (SRAS) application form.
This form is to be approved by your line manager by using the SRAS Staff Application Form
In regards to hard copy data, researchers are encouraged to bring only non-identifiable, replaceable and/or backed-up data home.
Other recommendations from ISD in regards data access and systems should be followed as per the Handbook on Protecting Ulster University Information.
Ethical approvals for research projects
I am about to seek ethical approval for my project – if the university closes, will filter committees and UUREC operate as normal in terms of ethical approval for my project?
Research Governance intend to continue to process applications normally as far as possible.
You should submit your application to Filter Committee or UUREC as appropriate.
Please contact the chair of your local Filter Committee or Nick Curry (n.curry@ulster.ac.uk) AND Elaine Bell (e.bell2@ulster.ac.uk) in Research Governance
Arrangements for collaborative research
My research is collaborative with another institution – is there anything specifically I need to do?
You should consult with key collaborators in relation to their contingency plans as they will affect your joint research.
Travel associated with research
I have booked travel associated with my research but can no longer visit the destination – what should I do?
Where travel is impacted, if researchers cannot travel due to government/official advice, or it poses a risk to the individual (due to an underlying medical condition etc.), this can be charged to the grant in line with any other cost. Please contact your supervisors in the first instance.
Events for Ulster University's Research Community
If the university closes will research meetings and events be affected?
There will inevitably be some changes to research meetings and events in the coming weeks and months.
Wherever possible meetings will be held via Skype and we are exploring the continuation of seminars and briefing sessions through online delivery.
Please check back on this site regularly for updates to this advice.
We encourage all Ulster University staff to remain in touch with their colleagues using email, Skype and other social media networks and to keep up to date on Twitter via @UlsterUni
The endocrine-disrupting chemicals polychlorinated biphenyls may enter the placenta during pregnancy and alter thyroid hormone activity at the cellular level, according to data published in the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were banned in the United States in 1979 after being widely used in transformers and other electrical equipment as well as common household items like paint and tape. The chemicals, however, still make their way into the environment and many people have been exposed to low levels of the chemicals, according to a press release.
"As endocrine-disrupting chemicals, PCBs interfere with the way the thyroid hormone functions, but they don't actually change the amount of the hormone found in the body," study researcher R. Thomas Zoeller, PhD, of the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, said in the release.
"Although these effects are largely invisible in scientific studies that only judge thyroid activity by measuring hormone levels, they may be having a real impact on infants' brain development."
Zoeller and colleagues conducted a birth cohort study of 164 pregnant women with low-dose chemical exposure and no thyroid disease from the GESTE study.
For the study, the researchers measured maternal and cord blood thyroid hormone levels at birth. They quantified mRNA levels of CYP1A1 — an enzyme that converts endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) into a form that directly interferes with the body's thyroid hormone receptors — and placental thyroid hormone receptor targets (placental lactogen and human growth hormone V [GH-V]).
Results showed that pregnancies with higher amounts of CYP1A1 in the placenta also appeared to have evidence of thyroid disruption in the tissue. These pregnancies also tended to have higher placental lactogen and GH-V levels, even as the mothers' overall thyroid hormone levels remained the same, according to the release.
"Whatever is happening in the placenta likely reflects what is happening in the fetus," Dr. Zoeller said. "To truly understand how endocrine-disrupting chemicals may be affecting pregnancies, the findings show we need to study not only hormone levels, but hormone activity at the cellular level."
Zoeller also noted that smoking may exacerbate the effects of EDCs, as exposure to cigarette smoke increases the body's production of CYP1A1. In the study, placental tissue from pregnant women who smoked generally contained higher levels of the enzyme, according to the release.
Christian Hospital Northeast Emergency Department - Volk Construction
Christian Hospital Northeast Emergency Department
Volk Construction / Portfolio / Christian Hospital Northeast Emergency Department
BJC, Christian Hospital
Phase 1 of the project was a partial renovation of the radiology department. This included demolition and roof enclosure of a light well, 2 special procedure exam rooms, 5 cath recovery bays, ED radiology room, build-out for (2) relocated CTs, staff break room, inpatient holding, outpatient waiting, and radiology reception.
Phase 1 also included a build out of shell space to relocate the EMS staff from the ground floor to the 1st floor. This opened up space on the ground floor to expand the emergency department. A new air handler was also installed in phase 1 which provides dedicated service to the ICU. This will allow an existing air handler, which is being rebuilt as part of the project, to provide dedicated service to the emergency department.
Phases 2 through 8 involve renovation of the emergency department. The owner's operations within the emergency department will remain operational throughout the phases. Project elements in the emergency department include 29 exam / treatment bays, 4 psychiatric rooms, 5 resuscitation rooms, patient toilet rooms, soiled utility rooms, clean supply / meds / nourishment rooms, open areas for staff work, staff restrooms, a staff break room, janitor closets, and associated circulation space.
Overview | Irreversible electroporation for treating liver metastases | Guidance | NICE
Irreversible electroporation for treating liver metastases
Interventional procedures guidance [IPG445] Published date: February 2013
The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) has issued full guidance to the NHS in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland on Irreversible electroporation for the treatment of liver metastases.
Electroporation is a tissue ablative procedure that uses an electric field to open pores in the cell membrane. Irreversible electroporation is the stage at which the electric field has been applied with sufficient amplitude and duration to cause permanent damage to the cell membrane and thus cell death.
Under general anaesthesia and with imaging guidance, needle-electrodes are passed directly through the skin into the target tumour. Up to six single use disposable needles are placed at a fixed distance apart in the target lesion. A series of very short electrical field pulses are delivered over several minutes to ablate the tumour and a small surrounding tissue margin.
Percutaneous approach with image guidance:
J12.8 Other specified other therapeutic percutaneous operations on liver
Y12.3 Electrochemotherapy to lesion of organ NOC
In addition ICD-10 code C78.7 Secondary malignant neoplasm of liver and intrahepatic bile duct is assigned.
Home/Neurological disorders/Parkinson's Disease/The Challenges of Diagnosing PD
Diagnosing Parkinson's disease can be challenging, especially during the early stages. Nearly 40% of people with the disease may never be diagnosed, and as many as 25% are misdiagnosed. Even during disease progression, symptoms may be difficult to evaluate and may reflect other disorders. A tremor may not be obvious while a person is sitting or posture changes may appear as osteoporosis or merely a sign of aging. Some doctors, who feel that tremor is a requirement for diagnosis, may not know that as many as one third of people with Parkinson's disease may not experience tremor.
Additionally, making the diagnosis is even more difficult because currently there are no blood or lab tests available to diagnose the disease. Some tests, such as a CT scan or MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), may be utilized to rule out other disorders that cause similar symptoms. Given these conditions, a doctor may need to observe the patient over time to distinguish signs of tremor and rigidity, and combine them with other typical symptoms. The doctor will also accumulate a complete history of the patient's symptoms, activity, medications, other medical problems, and exposures to toxic chemicals. This will typically be followed up with an arduous physical exam with focus on the functions of the brain and nervous system. Tests are performed on the patient's reflexes, coordination, muscle strength, and mental function. Making a clear-cut diagnosis is vital for prescribing the correct treatment procedure. The treatment decisions made early in the illness can have profound repercussions on the long-term success of treatment.
Because the diagnosis is based on the doctor's exam of the patient, it is crucial that the doctor be experienced in evaluating and diagnosing patients with PD. If you suspect you have PD, you should see a specialist, if possible a movement disorders trained neurologist.
Why Talk Therapy is the Cornerstone of Addiction Treatment
Talk Therapy for Addiction Treatment
South Florida Drug Rehab » Talk Therapy for Addiction Treatment
Addiction is a very severe mental illness that hijacks the brain, which makes it difficult to separate truth from fiction. In your active addiction, you may feel like you're all alone in your struggles because people don't understand. On the other hand, you may feel as though you're not someone who deserves to have someone listen. Talk therapy is a crucial part of addiction treatment as a way to help your brain heal and give you clarity.
There's No Judgement in Talk Therapy
Psychotherapy Heals the Brain
What separates people with an addiction from those who don't is a malfunctioning prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex not only helps to regulate the flow of dopamine in the brain, but it has many other responsibilities as well. When the prefrontal cortex isn't functioning properly, it makes it extremely difficult for people with addiction to get sober. The great news is that with treatment, this part of the brain can begin to heal and reboot necessary functions, including:
Each of these different aspects of the prefrontal cortex begins to heal through the process of addiction therapy. Through the education individuals receive in addiction treatment, they start to understand why they feel so different. The lack of attunement makes it difficult to connect to others, and a lack of self-awareness stops you from seeing the truth. By being able to talk about the realities of different situations, you begin the healing process of recovery.
Through this type of therapy, you have the opportunity to work with someone who is coming from a non-biased, non-judgmental place. This is extremely important for anyone who has a hard time opening up. A therapist knows that no matter where you came from, you're not defined by past experiences. Addiction is a legitimate illness, and you'll be treated with kindness, respect, tolerance and compassion.
Scientists spend a lot of time studying the disease of addiction in order to find the best ways to begin healing the brain. Working with trained professionals at an addiction treatment center gives you the chance to make progress. Evidence-based treatment methods and psychotherapy help you begin to recognize reality again. You'll also begin to feel empowered because many of the things that heal you are already within you.
1st Step Behavioral Health wants to help you see that there's a much better life that awaits you in recovery. Through different types of therapy, you'll find that you can become the person you deserve to be. Not only will you begin to progress in individual sessions, but you'll see the power of group sessions as well. Part of healing your attunement is realizing you're not the only one with your struggles, and others can support you.
Don't wait another minute to begin on the path of changing your life for the better. Call us today at (855) 425-4846 to learn more about talk therapy and our other life-changing treatments.
