April 2020 - Gaffar & Co. Law
"Manpower Law regulates the amount, form, structure, and mechanism of wage payment." According to Law No. 13 of 2003 on Manpower, A wage is the right of the employee that is received and expressed in the form of money as remuneration from the employer to employee, which amount is determined and paid according to a […]
Read moreWage Payment Procedure in Indonesia
An Update Regulation Related To COVID-19 Pandemic: Regulation of The Government in Lieu of Law Number 1 of 2020
"The purpose of Perppu 1/2020 is to mitigate the impact of the pandemic under the framework of rescuing health, national economy, and recovery of the affected business." Currently, the world has been suffered from the spread of Corona Virus Disease 2019 ("COVID-19") that brought health risks to the community and caused fatalities for those infected […]
Read moreAn Update Regulation Related To COVID-19 Pandemic: Regulation of The Government in Lieu of Law Number 1 of 2020
Due to the COVID-19 global outbreak and to support physical distancing national movement. Indonesian Financial Autority ("OJK") has issued an official press relase (SP 18/DHMS/OJK/III/2020) dated 18 of March 2020 regarding the extention period of annual financial report, annual report subbmision and General Meeting of Shareholders (RUPS) implementation period for public companies, please find below […]
Read moreExtention Period of Annual Report Submission and General Meeting of Shareholders (Rapat Umum Pemegang Saham or "RUPS") Implementation for Public Companies
"However, while most other pharmacy businesses are limited or closed to foreign ownership, wholesale pharmacy is a bit unique." Business license is one of the most important permits required when establishing a new business in Indonesia. Without business license, a company can't legally operate even if it has been properly established and registered in the […]
Fat is your friend—The more fat you eat, the more fat you will lose. - Twin Fitness
04 Feb Fat is your friend—The more fat you eat, the more fat you will lose.
Posted at 21:50h in Fitness	by	thetwins
For years we have been told to stay away from fat. The media wants us to believe that it is the cause of heart disease & high cholesterol. We are here to tell you that new research proves that this is incorrect information.
Avoiding fat is a HUGE mistake. In fact, taking in additional healthy fats is essential to maintaining overall health & long-term (lifestyle) weight management.
The key is to educate yourself on the difference between bad fats (those found in processed food & trans fat) and good fats. Some example of bad fat sources are: chips, crackers, and cereals (just to name a few). Good fats (omega 3, which decreases inflammation) can be found in nuts, seeds, and fish. There are all examples of the fat your body needs to sustain energy & promote hormone balance. Your body not only needs omega 3 fats but also the very stable saturated fat (helps balance insulin levels and holds them steady so you burn body fat!). Focus on avoiding bad fats and carbs and start looking for the good, stable fats found in real butter, grass fed beef and even coconut oil. These saturated fats will help nourish your brain, heart, nerves, hormones, & overall cell function.
Yes, I know what you are saying now…"what about my cholesterol?" Trust us, we have put this to the test and our cholesterol went down and my good (HDL) cholesterol actually doubled!
Failing to eat these fats will only cause your body to slow down. It can cause a number of things:
Weight gain around you stomach, hips and thighs
Your body becomes VERY inflamed and when it is inflamed, your weight loss effort becomes an uphill battle.
Hormone levels get completely out of balance
Last but not least, your metabolism becomes very slow, causing 1-4 to occur at an accelerated rate!
Eating a balance of good fats with protein not only helps keep your body healthy but also helps control insulin levels (insulin levels dictate how well your body burns body-fat). Controlling your insulin (blood sugar) levels help control your appetite & those pesky cravings. As females we crave more carbs because we naturally carry more body-fat then our male counterparts. This is because estrogen is stored in your fat cells, and estrogen LOVES carbs & sugar. This means, we are always wanting more carbs then men. By controlling out insulin levels (by adding that fat) we can get those cravings under control.
Meet Kally, and check out her fat-adapted transformation:
Most nutritionists (including ourselves) suggest getting between 25-50% of you daily calories from fat. We have been training ladies like this the past 3 years and the results are mind-blowing. Most people the first week with us drop 5-8lbs. Their energy levels are increased dramatically and they have very little cravings. Learn our fat adapted approach and feel the difference for yourself.
Services | San Tan Allergy
Services We OfferSan Tan Allergy2021-11-10T15:24:31-07:00
At San Tan Allergy and Asthma our providers work collaboratively to determine the cause of persistent allergy and asthma symptoms in order to develop an individualized treatment plan to provide you and your family with relief. We treat a variety of skin, respiratory and GI conditions as well as conditions involving the immune system. Our top-rated and experienced providers are committed to providing the highest-quality care to improve our patient's quality of life, and our exceptional client reviews are a testament to that. Let our team help you achieve the same results!
Find out what could be triggering allergies in your environment with a simple skin scratch test.
You could be suffering from food allergies without even knowing it. Get relief and stay safe with conclusive results
Don't leave yourself or your family vulnerable when in the great outdoors. Get testing so you can protect yourself.
Medicine should heal, not harm. With testing, you can avoid potentially life-threatening allergic reactions.
✔ Food Challenge Testing
Food allergies are often difficult to diagnose with blood testing or skin testing alone. In many instances, skin or blood testing may result in the "over-diagnosis" of food allergies. Some kids may actually outgrow their food allergies before their blood or skin tests become negative. Because skin tests and blood tests are imperfect the providers at San Tan Allergy & Asthma offer food challenge testing as an additional measure to definitively determine whether someone may be allergic to a food or not (or whether a food allergy may be outgrown).
✔ Lung Function Testing
A food challenge generally involves giving the patient very small amounts of the food that they are suspected of being allergic to. Gradually they are given increasing amounts of the food and monitored for any type of allergic reaction.
To read more about food challenge testing, see our informational sheet.
✔ Patch Allergy Testing
At San Tan Allergy & Asthma, we offer allergy shots as a long-term treatment option for the management and potential cure of allergies.
At San Tan Allergy & Asthma our providers strive to find the cause of bothersome skin conditions like allergic contact dermatitis…
Our physicians are board-certified immunologists and they seek to find treatment for immune deficiencies found…
Arcadia Allergy and Asthma (in partnership with its sister clinic, San Tan Allergy & Asthma) is excited to offer a new option…
Dentistry – عيادات الحكيم
عيادات الحكيم > Services > Dentistry
Dental issues are the toughest, especially that they occur out of nowhere when you're not paying attention to your dental health. However, the good news is that most of them can be circumvented by visiting a good dental specialist. First-step advice is to brush your teeth twice a day, floss daily, eat healthy food and run a dental check-up on a regular basis to follow the essential steps instructed by your doctor to keep a healthy teeth. That along with educating yourself about common dental problems to be aware of the causes and effects, that way you'll save a long way in preventing those issues from happening to you .
12/6 Emergency
3 El Batel Ahmed Abdel Aziz St, Mohandesin, Giza
Select SpecializationAndrologyAudiologyCardiology & Thoracic SurgeryCardiology & VascularDentistryDermatologyDiabetes & EndocrinologyDietitian & NutritionEar & Nose & ThroatGastroenterology & EndoscopyGeneral SurgeryGynecology & InfertilityHepatologyInternal & Emergency MedicineInternal MedicineLabsLiver DiseasesNeurologyNeurosurgeryObesity & Laparoscopic SurgeryOncology SurgeryOrthopedicsPain ManagementPediatric SurgeryPhysiotherapy & Sport InjuriesPlastic SurgeryPsychiatryRadiologyRheumatologySpeech and Behavior ModificationSpinal SurgeryUrologyVascular Surgery
Select Insurance CompanyWell CareSave Health CareLife Health CareSmartEgy CareProfessionalExtremSyndicate Commercial ProfessionsEstsharion Medical CareSpecial Family CareEl MashreqTrai CareNone
Integrative Medicine: Part 1 - Journey to Authentic Living
Integrative Medicine: Part 1
Sandra Rojo2020-02-12T20:04:31+00:00
By Sandra Rojo	Uncategorized Comments Off on Integrative Medicine: Part 1
CAM is an acronym for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. Complementary usually refers to using a non-mainstream approach togetherwith conventional medicine. And, alternative usually refers to using non-mainstream approach in place of conventional medicine.
Today in the USA, more healthcare practitioners and healthcare systems are offering integrative health care (another term to mean CAM) to patients in treatment and to help the patient manage their symptoms of chemotherapy, radiation and surgery.
I recognize there is a plethora of CAM therapies, but I find The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health definition useful because they organize many of alternative therapies into five categories.
Whole Medical systems: Homeopathy and Osteopathic medicine
Manipulative and Body-based practices: Acupuncture, acupressure, Alexander technique, aroma therapy, chiropractic, cranial-sacral therapy, Feldenkrais Method, Jin Shin Jyutsu, Massage, lymphatic therapy and dance therapy, physical therapy, Qi Gong, Shiatsu, trigger point therapy, neuromuscular therapy.
Mind Body Medicine: Art and color therapy, Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR), Hypnotherapy, guided imagery, meditation, music therapy, Neuro-linguistic therapy (NLP), stress management, psychotherapy, Yoga therapy.
Energy Medicine: Chi Kung Healing touch, Reiki, therapeutic touch, magnetic therapy and prayer, Touch for Health.
Biologically- Based Practices: Biofeedback, herbal therapy, hydrotherapy, nutritional counseling.
It's good to keep in mind that some individual aforementioned practices can and do fit into one or more of the other categories detailed above. You do not need to be ill or have a "dis-ease" to seek out one or more integrative therapies because some of these therapies are sought out to help promote wellness and personal development. I find that all integrative and alternative modalities can be highly effective, but I always inform my clients that all modalities heavily depend on the facilitator.
I come from a medical lineage on both sides of my family that practice both traditional and alternative medicine and I was no exception to following in one way or the other. I took an interest early on with working with cancer and elderly infirmed people. In the early 1990's when I began working with Alzheimer patients, we obviously had little information about the disease and how to cope better with the sometimes reactive states Alzheimer's patients live. Reiki (hands-on technique), for example, was one modality that seemed to calm the patients when they had negative outburst or experienced disorientation. The same positive effects of a technique such as Reiki or other hands-on therapies occurred with cancer patients.
At the time I was living in Colorado Springs – Colorado, I was surprised to discover that Penrose, one of the major cancer centers and hospitals did not offer cancer patients (or any patients) integrative therapies. The same was for hospice care. I encouraged a social worker at Penrose and together we created the first integrative therapies for Penrose Cancer Center. We offered Reiki, chair yoga, drumming, and already active, was a support group for cancer patients. I personally offered Reiki and frequent presentations educating both patients and staff about Reiki and other hands-on techniques.
Since a modality like Reiki was new to most of the staff, nurses and doctors, it was not only educational for them to learn about different hands-on techniques, but to experience it for themselves. And clearly the patients gained great benefits from the integrative therapies offered. Reiki, like many other therapies relieved the cancer patients from the negative side effects of chemotherapy, radiation and surgeries. It relieved physical nausea, pain and fatigue. It also helped them emotionally by alleviating stress, helped them cope with their fears and doubts, to name a few.
In the following weeks I will provide more information about Reiki and other integrative techniques. I will share some personal experiences that may help you understand more how to select criteria for choosing the right facilitator and modality for you.
Nearly four out of five businesses are failing to comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), revealed Verizon's 2015 PCI Compliance Report.
With more than two-thirds of the total purchases globally being made via payment cards, PCI DSS should be a top priority for organisations that accept credit cards. Such businesses that fail to comply with PCI DSS are increasing their risks to cyberattacks, said Verizon in a press statement. "Of all the data breaches studied, Verizon's findings clearly show that not a single company was fully PCI DSS compliant at the time of the breach," said Rodolphe Simonetti, managing director, professional services for Verizon Enterprise Solutions.
The report also highlighted the need for organisations to treat compliance as an ongoing focus. Only 28 percent of the companies were found to still be fully PCI-DSS-compliant less than a year after being validated. This is alarming since compliance at a point in time isn't sufficient to protect data, said Simonetti. "Compliance must be a part of day-to-day activities within an organisation's greater security strategy," he advised.
Mandated by card brands, the PCI DSS aims to increase controls around the cardholder data to reduce credit card fraud via its exposure. Organisations should thus view PCI DSS compliance as part of a comprehensive information security and risk management strategy as it can uncover security gaps that should be fixed, said Verizon.
To help organisations simplify and increase the return on investment of their PCI DSS compliance programme, Verizon provided the following tips:
1. Appreciate the scale of the task
PCI DSS compliance requires a well-managed programme comprising many projects that must be coordinated to ensure overall success, avoid costly mistakes, achieve positive ROI, and produce a real contribution to security.
To accurately scope the work involved, Verizon advises organisations to conduct a business impact analysis prior to gap analysis and remediation projects. This provides IT leaders with a calculated forecast, which will help them secure a budget for security. Since internal staff might not have the skills and time to execute the work, Verizon also recommends a careful, well-designed outsourcing strategy for both the management of security technologies and business processes.
2. Focus on scoping.
By keeping the scope of PCI DSS progamme small, organisations will be reducing the opportunities for breaches to occur, limiting the damage that a breach can cause, as well as reducing its workload. Reducing scope might also result in the consolidation of systems and restructuring of environments, which will help manage compliance costs.
3. Leverage compliance as an opportunity
According to Verizon, coordinated security programmes can deliver quantifiable returns through greater security posture across the organisations; more effective orchestration of security, governance and compliance requirements; and improved business process and business process management.
Support Anxiety Therapy With These Symptom Management Techniques
Anxiety disorders impact millions of people across the globe. Lamentably, many anxiety symptoms merely won't "go away" on their own. For numerous people, therapy is the best way to combat issues of anxiety and learn how to manage symptoms.
Going to a therapist can help you to understand the root of your fears better. Once you know your triggers, you can work with a therapist to develop management skills for your symptoms.
Of course, there are plenty of natural things you can do on your own. Fighting back against anxiety is a constant battle. So, in addition to therapy, there are a few ways to manage anxiety within your day-to-day routine.
Let's look at a few of those symptom-management techniques.
You've probably heard the saying, "you are what you eat," This absolutely rings true for people with anxiety. What you eat and drink can significantly impact feelings of fear and worry. Some of the things you should avoid consuming include in excess are caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine.
Caffeine can put your body under stress and cause it to respond as though you are having a panic attack. The "jump-start" feeling most people crave with a cup of coffee is not necessarily helpful to an anxiety sufferer. Alcohol, nicotine, and other substances, too, are often used to cope with mental health conditions. You should avoid them if possible, as it can be a slippery slope when you start using them.
Instead, focus on a healthy, balanced diet. Fortify your brain and body with whole foods that make you feel good and give you energy like lean proteins, vegetables, and whole grains.
Stay away from foods that make you feel sluggish and lethargic like fried options, convenience food, and excess refined sugar. Also, don't discount the benefit of hydration in fostering physical relaxation and calm.
Regular exercise is crucial for just about every area of the body — including your mind. Not only can exercise boost serotonin in the brain and make you feel happier, but it also gives you a feeling of control. That's something people with anxiety need. You are in control of the type of exercise you do, how long, etc. Sometimes, just that knowledge can be very comforting.
Learning to relax might sound easier said than done when you're dealing with anxiety. Finding ways to calm down and tap into relaxation on your own time can be a big help in quelling symptoms. Some of the most useful relaxation techniques you can do on your own include:
All of these practices allow you to hit the pause button on whatever is going on. They require you to focus on your innermost self, including your breath. With mindfulness, you stay focused on the present moment and how you feel in the here and now. You allow your thoughts to come and go freely, without holding on to any particular one or judging your response.
Meditation, in general, has been stereotyped quite a bit over the years. However, you don't need to go through some special ritual to do it. Instead, simply start by sitting in a quiet room. If you are comfortable, close your eyes. Focus on taking deep breaths, and what that feels like within your body. You might be surprised at how quickly it calms you down.
Do You Need Therapy for Anxiety?
So, is therapy really necessary if you have anxiety? In most cases, it is an invaluable path toward relief and recovery. Again, anxiety doesn't just go away on its own and help is nothing to be ashamed of. The most important thing is that you understand where your worry is coming from. with increased awareness and understanding, you can more easily learn to manage your symptoms on your own.
Therapy helps you to do that. We're here to support you. Together, we can work on developing the skills you need to face your anxiety and its triggers. In time, you are like to feel better and more capable of living life the way you want. Please read more about anxiety therapy and contact us soon for a personal consultation.
alternative cancer information, cancer information
ZASM | Veggie | Health Explorers | Memory Foam
Self Help Options For Cancer
Energy Exercises for Cancer
Cancer - Alternatives Options and Information
Cancer is a scary diagnosis. It is easy to become paralyzed by the diagnosis, and even if you want to learn more about options and alternatives it can be very difficult to sort through the information. Unfortunately it often falls on the patient, or their family, to research both conventional and unconventional cancer treatment options.
In our family, I was the person most interested in researching these options and I am here to tell you it is a very murky world of treatments and claims by both sides of the cancer treatment street - conventional and unconventional.
The most important thing a patient can do is to empower themselves with the best information on their treatment and care options - whether they are conventional, alternative, or self care treatment options. After a few years of researching this information, we wanted to share the best information we have gleaned - we hope this helps you to figure out the best way for you to recover from your cancer.
First, we provide a general overview of self help cancer treatment options - that is options which any patient can use (even while undergoing traditional treatments) that may increase their ability to recover from cancer.
These options, such as nutrition, aggressive use of supplements, exercise, stress reduction/meditation and community involvment, are potentially powerful ways to fight cancer and give a patient a way to feel personally empowered in their struggle to heal.
Next, we have a seperate site devoted to pancreatic cancer. Almost 20 years ago, my father was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, and I learned how devestating and quick a disease it is -- he died almost 6 months to the day after his diagnosis.
For those families now facing pancreatic cancer, I hope this information allows them to better understand what options are available. In addition I hope that families share their insights and information on pancreatic cancer with others through our . I know it meant a lot for us to be able to talk with others who had gone through this horrible disease.
You will also find pages on cancer links, both for conventional and unconventional treatment, cancer information resources, and information on our exclusive video we produced on the chinese exercise, called Gou Lin Chi Gong, which is used in China as an additional tool for fighting cancer.
Tamoxifen Bruising > Canadian Pharmacy
Home cipro warfarin > Tamoxifen bruising >
Discussion in 'doxycycline liquid for dogs' started by Anhora_rita, 02-Jun-2020.
The manufacturer's product labeling should always be consulted for a list of side effects most frequently appearing in patients during clinical studies. Talk to your doctor about which medications may be most appropriate for you. Tamoxifen is used for hormone-dependent types of breast cancer. It works by blocking the effect of estrogen in the body and thus stopping the growth of cancer cells that possess the estrogen receptors. Since this medication reduces the effects of estrogen, side effects will resemble menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes, vaginal dryness and insomnia. actualy got alot worse (I also have little red ezcema type of patches develope all over my legs and now some on my arms....which I also mentioned to my oncologist) Im pretty sure that this must be connected to the Tamoxifen Cancer Tamoxifen for Cancer Bruise Does Arimidex cause Bruise? Bromaline taken for Bruise Vitamin C taken for Bruise Pain and Bruise Does Tamoxifen cause Hot Flashes? Treato does not review third-party posts for accuracy of any kind, including for medical diagnosis or treatments, or events in general. doxycycline absorption Some side effects may occur that usually do not need medical attention. These side effects may go away during treatment as your body adjusts to the medicine. Also, your health care professional may be able to tell you about ways to prevent or reduce some of these side effects. Check with your health care professional if any of the following side effects continue or are bothersome or if you have any questions about them: Other side effects not listed may also occur in some patients. If you notice any other effects, check with your healthcare professional. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
Cheap avodart online Cheap cialis drug Buy flagyl online overnight
Tamoxifen learn about side effects, dosage, special precautions, and more on MedlinePlus buy kamagra uk paypal We evaluated a 45-year-old female who presented with a 2-week history of easy bruising 4–6 weeks after taking only tamoxifen 20 mg/day. Hello ladies, Following WLE, chemo and radiotherapy finished 19th December, I started taking Tamoxifen last Monday and on top of the worsening hot flushes and night.
Terry White Chemists Tamoxifen Tablets - au, A Platelet Acquired Storage Pool Disorder Associated with.
Find a comprehensive guide to possible side effects including common and rare side effects when taking Soltamox Tamoxifen Citrate for healthcare.
Common Side Effects of Soltamox Tamoxifen Citrate Drug Center.
If you have an allergy to tamoxifen or any other part of this drug. chills, or sore throat; any unexplained bruising or bleeding; or if you feel very tired or weak. metformin 500 side effects Tamoxifen Oral Route Print. Sections. Description and Brand Names; Before Using; Proper Use; Precautions;. unusual bleeding or bruising unusual tiredness or weakness The most serious side effects of Tamoxifen include the risk of blood clots. Loss of appetite with dark colored urine; Easy bruising or bleeding.
pills-cash.com, 02-Jun-2020 11:23
One-anothering Group will still be meeting this Tuesday, November 22, 2011, despite Thanksgiving, and we would be THANKFUL if you would join us! Adult Bible Institute/ Children's Sunday School at , followed by worship at . The Word will be brought to us on Sunday, November 27, 2011 by Tim Sharadin, at 835 Reed Street…. Fish Disease Treatment Ick, Fin Rot & Fungus PetSmart buy cialis perth Buy ampicillin betta fish - Awen Therapy Fish Health & Wellness Fungus, Ich Treatment
Freeb00ter, 17-Jun-2020 00:06
To ensure that Lasix isn't providing any harm to you, you must get your blood tested regularly. Your liver or kidney function should also be tested. Do not skip any scheduled appointments with your doctor in this regard. Lasix causes excess of urination and it may result in dehydration easily. Follow the instructions given by your doctor on increasing the intake of potassium supplements. You may add potassium and salt in your diet as well. - The less common side effects of Lasix are: dizziness, jaundice, dehydration symptoms, high sugar blood levels, skin allergic reactions, and hearing problems. duloxetine 40 mg Lasix is prescribed for high blood pressure treatment as well as fluid retention in the body. Since most of the diuretics cause an increase in the excretion of water from a body, although each does so in a dissimilar way, the Lasix prescription is categorized as a diuretic medication. It works on raising the level of water and salt that is done away with by the kidneys from the blood. By increasing these amounts Lasix causes a reduction in the blood volume. Consequently the medication lowers the blood pressure and in addition it helps with the retention of water in the body. The Lasix drug comes in tablet form and upon prescription is usually taken once or twice in a day. What Causes The Ailments: Prior to Lasix being induced there are several conditions that come about. Such is when surplus calcium and the salt are done away with in the body, together with water through urine which mounts up in the body due to some disorders.
Generic Lasix Furosemide Buy Lasix Online where to buy viagra in ipoh The most common conditions for which generic Lasix performs the best effect are high blood pressure, heart diseases, kidney and liver failures. Lasix is a brand name of the drug. You can buy as Lasix, so Furosemide. It is a prescription medicine, however generic Lasix is available online without prescription.
Chips1978, 13-Jun-2020 02:20
Sildenafil pills and Sildenafil generic ED meds mailed to you with. 196 Sildenafil DB00203 - Sildenafil - DrugBank cialis online Sildenafil Prices, Coupons & Savings Tips - GoodRx
While you slowly peel back the release liner from under the patch with one hand, use your other hand to smooth the patch down on to the skin.
To ensure Qutenza maintains contact with the treatment area, a dressing, such as rolled gauze, may be used.
After removal of Qutenza, generously apply Cleansing Gel to the treatment area and leave on for at least one minute. Remove Cleansing Gel with a dry wipe and gently wash the area with mild soap and water and dry thoroughly.
Inform the patient that the treated area may be sensitive for a few days to heat (e.g., hot showers/baths, direct sunlight, vigorous exercise).
Aerosolization of capsaicin can occur upon rapid removal of Qutenza patches. Therefore, remove Qutenza patches gently and slowly by rolling the adhesive side inward [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].
Inhalation of airborne capsaicin can result in coughing or sneezing. Provide supportive medical care if shortness of breath develops.
If skin not intended to be treated comes in contact with Qutenza, apply Cleansing Gel for one minute and wipe off with dry gauze. After the Cleansing Gel has been wiped off, wash the area with soap and water.
Even following use of a local anesthetic prior to administration of Qutenza, patients may experience substantial procedural pain. Prepare to treat acute pain during and following the application procedure with local cooling (such as an ice pack) and/or appropriate analgesic medication, such as opioids. Opioids may affect the ability to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving or operating machinery.
In clinical trials, increases in blood pressure occurred during or shortly after exposure to Qutenza. The changes averaged less than 10 mm Hg, although some patients had greater increases and these changes lasted for approximately two hours after patch removal. Increases in blood pressure were unrelated to the pretreatment blood pressure but were related to treatment-related increases in pain. Monitor blood pressure periodically during the treatment and provide adequate support for treatment related pain.
Patients with unstable or poorly controlled hypertension, a recent history of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events may be at an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects. Consider these factors prior to initiating Qutenza treatment.
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of other drugs and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice.
Across all controlled and uncontrolled trials, more than 1,600 patients have received Qutenza. A total of 394 patients received more than one treatment application and 274 patients were followed for 48 weeks or longer.
In controlled clinical studies, 98% of patients completed ≥ 90% of the intended patch application duration. Among patients treated with Qutenza, 1% discontinued prematurely due to an adverse event.
