400 participants from 16 countries; Enthusiastic praise received from industry, policy makers and academia that attended
3 February 2014 – SINGAPORE – EmTech Singapore, hosted by MIT Technology Review magazine and co-organized and managed by Koelnmesse Pte Ltd wrapped up recently to enthusiastic praise. Some 400 participants, including 42 speakers attended the event. EmTech Singapore brought together people from countries as diverse as Australia, Cambodia, China, Dubai, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, UK, United States and Singapore to discuss the latest trends in emerging and disruptive technologies.
“Everything worked out perfectly and expectations were clearly met” said Howard Califano, President of the EmTech Singapore’s Steering Committee, and Director of the Innovation Centre at the Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research & Technology (SMART).
The agenda was divided up into themes spread across the two days. Multiple speakers delivered content pertinent to each theme in a rapid-fire format of 15-20 minutes per presentation. The themes explored emerging technologies in healthcare, big data, robotics, 3D printing and urban development. Speakers represented MIT, McLaren Applied Technologies, Twitter, Microsoft and The Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), among others.
Tan Geok Leng, Executive Director of the Science and Engineering Research Council at A*STAR, an organization which encouraged 35 of its researchers and management staff to participate, commented, “We are always on the lookout for innovative forums that spark new research ideas. I came to this place to get inspired, and am always interested to benchmark other emerging technologies against A*STAR’s research developments. It is also an opportunity for A*STAR to share our strengths and capabilities with the global research community, such as we did with the Urban Systems Initiative this year.”
Matthew Romaine, co-founder of Gengo, Inc remarked that "I think it's been really fascinating. I love the breadth of the subject matter, from the healthcare discussed yesterday to the 4D printing; even the Twitter presentation this morning was really cool. I got to ask a question around translation, since that is the space that I am in, and the answer was interesting".
Adrienne Ravez, Co Founder of Endorphine Concept Digital Agency said that she was “invited because I collaborate with different entities in Cambodia and I try to bring as much information as possible about technology and innovation. I was very surprised, because at first I came to get information about technology, but I scored many other things, like learning about innovation, agriculture, and I think (EmTech) is really interesting. I would love to attend again. If next year the program is as exciting, I will come back for sure.”
Govindharaju Venkidachalam, Vice President - Technology at Hyflux Ltd said "I attended because I could see some interesting things, like (the SUTD presentation on) plants used for water treatment - these technologies are relevant to me."
EmTech Singapore in 2014 was organized by by MIT Technology Review and Koelnmesse Pte Ltd. This year’s host partner was the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA). Agensi Innovasi Malaysia was a Gold sponsor and other sponsors included Net App, Softsource, IPI Singapore, Microsoft and SMART. The official broadcast partner of the inaugural event was CNBC.
EmTech Singapore will be held again in January 2015 and will feature emerging technology in themes such as energy, telecommunications, manufacturing and engineering, computer technology, health science and urban development.
EmTech Singapore is where technology, business, and culture converge. It’s the showcase for emerging technologies with the greatest potential to change our lives. It’s an access point to the most innovative people and companies in the world. Most of all, it is a place of inspiration — an opportunity to glimpse the future and begin to understand the technologies that matter and how they’ll change the face of business and drive the new global economy. www.emtechsingapore.com
MIT Technology Review leads the global conversation about technologies that matter. An independent media company owned by MIT, it produces publications read by millions of business leaders, innovators, and thought leaders around the globe, in six languages and on a variety of platforms. The company publishes MIT Technology Review, the world′s most respected technology magazine; daily news features, analysis, and opinion; and Business Reports, which explain how technologies are transforming industries. It produces live events such as the annual EmTech MIT, international EmTech conferences, Summits, and Salons. The company’s entrepreneurial community organization, MIT Enterprise Forum, hosts 400+ events a year around the world.
Koelnmesse Pte Ltd is one of the world's largest trade fair companies. Its more than 70 trade fairs and exhibitions have the broadest international scope in the industry, as 60 percent of the exhibitors and 40 percent of the visitors come from outside Germany. The Koelnmesse events include the leading global trade fairs for 25 sectors, such as imm cologne, Anuga, IDS, INTERMOT, interzum cologne, photokina, Gamescom, and the International Hardware Fair Cologne.
The Autism Research Institute sponsors Defeat Autism Now! (DAN!) Conferences. Physicians and researchers who are doing progressive work with nutrition and other alternative modalities, gather at these conferences.The FDA has taken the position that there is no effective treatment for autism. DAN! medical professionals and researchers disagree. One small example is the use of vitamin B6 and magnesium. There are 22 published studies (11 of them were double-blind, placebo-controlled studies) by scientists in 6 countries showing that vitamin B6, used in conjunction with magnesium, is highly beneficial in the treatment of autistic children and adults.
Another area that has generated a lot of interest is gluten-free diets. One small study, published in Nutritional Neuroscience (2002;5(4):251-261.) compared 10 autistic children who were placed on a gluten-free, casein-free diet to 10 autistic controls who were not placed on a restrictive diet. The study lasted for one year. Those on the diet experienced a significant reduction in aloofness, anxiety and ritualistic behavior. They also experienced improved learning skills. They developed more empathy and improved relationships with other children. They became more tolerant to physical contact. There were also improvements in nonverbal communication skills, eye contact, and responsiveness to verbal cues. There was an increase in their range of interests, and responsiveness to dangerous situations. There was also a reduction in excessively passive or restless behavior. There was significant improvement in nonverbal cognitive skills.
The control group did not have these improvements—in fact they became worse over the course of the study. One theory for this result is that gluten and casein do not break down properly. In the autistic children, eating these foods cause a release of opioid-like peptides (peptides are pieces of protein—partially broken down), causing the change in behavior.
Another area of interest is the inflammation of the brain itself. Research appearing in the April, 2002 issue of the journal Molecular Psychiatry (volume 7, number 4, pages 375-382) studied autistic children who had a form of the disease characterized by apparently normal early development followed by regression in the second year of life. Previous studies have found evidence of immune issues in this group of autistic patients. Earlier research has shown that in this group of patients, bowel inflammation is often an issue [The Lancet (1998; 351: 637-641), American Journal of Gastroenterology (2000; 95: 2285-2295)]. In this study, the researchers found changes in the cells in the intestine of the autistic patients that suggest that the immune system is reacting against the intestinal cells. The authors made comparisons to children with mental retardation, cerebral palsy, celiac disease and normal controls, none of whom had these cellular changes.
Researchers at Johns Hopkins University have found that the brains of some people with autism have signs of inflammation. In research published in the November 15, 2004 issue of the journal Annals of Neurology, brain tissue was examined in 11 subjects with autism. The subjects were deceased—killed by accident or injuries (as opposed to some disease process). Tissue was taken from three different areas of the brain. The tissue samples indicated the presence of inflammation.
The cerebrospinal fluid (the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord) in six living patients (children between the ages of six and twelve) was tested for cytokines and chemokines. The presence of these two chemicals indicates inflammation. They were elevated in the children with autism.
The findings indicate that the immune system may be involved with autism. Also, the immune response and inflammatory response is local—happening in the brain only. It is not the result of a systemic immune response.
This opens the possibility of using antioxidants and immune support for autistic children. Clearly the FDA is wrong when it says that there is no treatment for autism.
Share:
Rate:
PreviousTaking this Supplement when Pregnant may Help Prevent Eczema
NextHyperactivity, Autism and Omega-3 Fatty Acids
About The Author
Whole Health Web Admin
Whole Health Web is a site designed to teach people about the value of natural health care. Our goal is to inform you and to help you to start a conversation with your doctor about natural health care. Most of our articles are about scientific research. We will also provide opinion pieces provided by natural health practitioners. Visit us often, as we are continually adding new content.
Related Posts
Barberry and Blood Pressure
February 25, 2017
Vitamin D and Pneumonia
August 27, 2017
Are You Ready for Flu Season?
October 4, 2016
Good Bowel Bacteria may Prevent Allergies in Babies
October 27, 2017
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
COMMENT
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search for:
Find a practitioner
Search for:
- Category -Acupuncture (2)Applied Kinesiology (8)Chiropractor (18)Homeopathy (1)MD/Osteopath (2)Naprapathy (2)Naturopathy (3)Nutritionist (22)
Search near:
- Country -USA (23)
Search in radius 0 miles
Practitioner Listings
Lakeview Integrative Medicine
Lawrence Lacy, DC
Nature’s Treasures
Robert Espana
Millar Chiropractic
Recent Reviews
Joint Care and Repair by Joe Buishas (transcribed from recording)
Score: 60%
Increase Brain Activity
Score: 60%
Fish Oil and Exercise-Induced Asthma
Score: 80%
Recent Videos
Why Natural Healthcare?
Follow Us
Facebook
Google+
Youtube
Twitter
LOGIN
Username or E-mail
Password
Only fill in if you are not human
Keep me signed in
Register
Forgot your password?
Tags
Acupuncture ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's Disease Antioxidants Arthritis Asthma Autism Blood Pressure Cancer Chiropractic Cholesterol Cognition Colitis CoQ10 Crohn's Disease Depression/Anxiety Diabetes Dysmenorrhea Exercise Fish Oil Flu Folic Acid Green Tea Headache Heart Disease Heart Failure Herbs Inflammatory Bowel Disease Magnesium Medication Memory Menopause Migraine Nutrition Omega-3 Omega-3 Fatty Acids Pain PMS Probiotics Thyroid Vitamin B12 Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E
Recent Articles
A Few Words About Erectile Dysfunction
Feb 14, 2021 | Male Health Issues
Inadequate Stomach Acid (Hypochlorhydra)? A Controversial Concept
Feb 13, 2021 | Digestion
Taurine and Blood pressure
Feb 13, 2021 | Blood Pressure, Cardiovascular System/Circulation, Vitamins, Minerals and Supplements
Biliary Stasis
Feb 13, 2021 | Cholesterol/Triglycerides, Digestion, Liver/Gallbladder
Listings
Lakeview Integrative Medicine
Lawrence Lacy, DC
Nature’s Treasures
Robert Espana
Millar Chiropractic
Disclaimer
All content found on the WholeHealthWeb.com website, including: text, images, audio, or other formats were created for informational purposes only. The Content is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment.
Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this website. Links to educational content not created by WholeHealthWeb.com are taken at your own risk.
Adderall Dependence – Effects of Adderall Abuse – Adderall Addiction Treatment
Adderall Dependence – Signs of Adderall Use Vs. Abuse, Tolerance
Understanding Dependency and Tolerance
You may be wondering, "How addictive is Adderall?" Adderall is classified as a Schedule II drug because of the potential for abuse and dependence. However, Adderall is used to treat individuals diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, as well as other disorders that require the correction of chemicals found within the brain.
It is possible to develop a dependency for Adderall, especially if large doses have been taken for an extended period of time. However, even if the drug has been used only for a short time, the body may become accustomed to it. Dependency means that the body has become accustomed to having the drug delivered each day and expects the chemicals to be made without an organ's help. When this is stopped, and the drug is removed from the system, it is hard for the body to work properly. Adderall tolerance may also occur. This occurs when a person takes the drug for a period of time and then needs to increase the dose to feel the same effects. The body is capable of building up a tolerance to all forms of amphetamines, including Adderall.
Adderall substance dependence occurs when the body relies on the delivery of the drug into the system in order to function properly. Physical dependence is caused in this manner. It is a serious topic to consider if you are planning on stopping the drug. It must be tapered in order to avoid withdraw symptoms and side effects.
Adderall, and other stimulant drugs, can cause the body to create dopamine rapidly. This causes a rise of the chemical in the brain, which can lead to a dependency. When the drug is taken away, side effects and withdrawal symptoms occur. These symptoms include fatigue, depression, and problems sleeping or sleeping too much. If you notice these symptoms after prolonged use, please seek advice.
A psychological dependence on a drug occurs when a person is used to taking the drug as part of a pattern. Changing this pattern can be disruptive and can cause stress and anxiety. Psychological dependency also can occur if a person "thinks" he or she needs the drug to continue in a situation, even though that person does not actually need another dose.
Adderall is a prescription stimulant that can cause a number of side effects to occur within the body. The temperature within the body can rise, for example. Increases in blood pressure, increases in heart rate, and a decrease in appetite or sleep can occur. Other side effects can include dry mouth, headaches, and insomnia. Side effects vary depending on the individual taking the medication.
In the short term, Adderall is used to treat attention deficit disorder, narcolepsy, depression, and obesity (as a weight-loss drug). It is used in people of many ages, including some children who have problems concentrating due to symptoms of ADHD. Adderall helps the body release adrenaline, increases the heart rate in the body, and helps redirect blood flow to the muscles. Small dosages of Adderall can help a person feel more awake and refreshed. However, the burst of energy or refreshed feeling may wear off, leaving a patient or Adderall user irritable, depressed, and exhausted.When a patient is coming down from Adderall, he or she may or may not have symptoms. This is highly dependent on how the person is reducing the drug. If it is a "cold-turkey" stop, withdrawal symptoms can occur. However, a tapered reduction in the drug can help prevent any side effects, as the body will take over the production of the proper hormones. You can receive advice and help to decide which is right for you.
Long-term side effects of using Adderall can include feeling hostile or paranoid. Serious cardiovascular issues can occur if a person takes high doses over a period of time. This includes strokes from overdosing.
When someone develops a dependency on an addictive drug, detox is often taken as the first step toward sobriety. The basic goal is to cleanse the body of the drug to allow the healing process to begin.
Withdrawal symptoms from Adderall can include a number of issues such as crankiness, extreme hunger, depression, nightmares, panic attacks, and tiredness, although particular symptoms are unique to each individual and vary in severity. Withdrawal from Adderall may cause a binge crash, which is when the body does not sleep for a number of days, then sleeps extensively for a number of days following the insomnia. Detoxification and withdrawal may occur at the same time, as the body is cleansed from the drug. However, with the proper treatments and care, withdraw and detoxification can be done successfully.
Treatment for Adderall addiction is available. People who are interested in inpatient or outpatient services should consider calling 1-888-803-9961 Who Answers?. They can also fill out a short contact form, which will help them get the support they need.
California Attorney General Xavier Becerra has been chosen to lead the health and human services department. If confirmed, Becerra will be the first Latino to lead the sprawling agency.
While the former congressman is not a health care professional, he has led legal efforts to protect the Affordable Care Act.
THE VACCINE IN DELAWARE:Delaware's first delivery of COVID-19 vaccine won't even be enough for those first in line
Dr. Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious disease specialist, will continue in his role as director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, as well as serve as an adviser to Biden.
Landmark Tool Developed for Diagnosing Inflammatory Breast Cancer - The Komen Blog
DALLAS	| Feb 15, 2022
"If you want to study a disease, you have to ask, 'What causes the disease and is this treatment better than that treatment?' It's harder to answer those questions if you haven't clearly defined the disease," said Dr. Kathy Miller, senior author, Komen Scholar and medical oncologist. "It sounds so simple, but having a diagnosis really is the first step toward tackling the problem."
Susan G. Komen, the Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Foundation and Milburn Foundationraised more than $1.4 million in a fundraising campaign last year to support the IBC cohort and the research that was recently published.
Radiation myelopathy: a radiobiological review | Shirazi | Reports of Practical Oncology and Radiotherapy
DOI: 10.1016/S1507-1367(04)71019-6
Rep Pract Oncol Radiother 2004;9(4):119-127.
In radiotherapy the risk of radiation myelopathy is radiobiologically considerable. This review aims to outline future radiobiological research to get closer to the mechanism of radiation myelopathy.
Different regimes and techniques of irradiation that deliver doses to the spinal cord lead to the development of radiation myelopathy. Up to now, interpretations of injuries have been based entirely on morphological observations and histological analysis.
Using paralysis as the endpoint, large fraction size data were consistent with the linear quadratic model (α/β=2.41 Gy). Small fraction size data gave a much smaller value of α/β (0.48 Gy).
A possible explanation is the interaction of two different groups of target cells with different fractionation sensitivities and, therefore, different α/β values. This duality suggests that spinal cord vascular endothelial changes, both in the morphology and secretory profile, may convey information in addition to the definition of various cells that participate in the evolution of radiation myelopathy.
Caring for "small Sugar Man": adolescent Diabetes patients need Daily Scientific "Monitoring" by their parents | China News Portal | China policies, regulations & government developments
2019-11-13 19:56 | gov.cn
Xinhua News Agency, Hefei, November 13 (Reporter Bao Xiaojing) "Type I diabetes has become one of the diseases that seriously threaten the health of young adults and children." Professor Weng Jianping, director of the Intelligent Management and big data Center for Type I Diabetes in China and vice president of the first Hospital of the University of Science and Technology of China, pointed out that epidemiological studies have shown that the incidence of diabetes among adolescents in China is on the rise. Among them, the incidence of type 1 diabetes is more obvious in adolescents, and the patients with juvenile diabetes need daily scientific "monitoring" by their parents.
Most of the diabetes mellitus in adolescents is type I diabetes, which is caused by the destruction of islet β-cell function caused by autoimmunity and the absolute lack of insulin secretion. The disease is urgent and serious. If not treated in time, it will be life-threatening. With the change of social environment and lifestyle, the number of obese children and adolescents is increasing year by year, and the incidence of type 2 diabetes in children and adolescents is also increasing.
From 2013 to 2017, under the leadership of Weng Jianping, many experts jointly carried out a study on the registration management of type 1 diabetes patients in the whole population of China, covering 10% of the population and 505 hospitals in 7 administrative regions of the 13 study regions. Through a multicenter observational study, we found out the incidence of type 1 diabetes in the whole population of China: the incidence of type 1 diabetes in the whole age group of China was 1.01 / 100000. Based on this, it is estimated that there are about 500000 patients with type 1 diabetes in China. Compared with the large group of patients with type 2 diabetes, type 1 diabetes appears to be a "minority". Type 1 diabetes is prone to occur in children and adolescents, affecting the future of national health.
"at the time of diagnosis, the proportion of acute complications was high, and the incidence of diabetic ketoacidosis was as high as 40% within half a year." Weng Jianping said.
"Adolescent diabetes symptoms are always hard to detect at first, and when we do, we miss the best treatment time." Zhang Qiu, chief physician of the Endocrinology Department of the first affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University, said that the main symptoms of adolescent diabetes are "three more and one less." "three more" means eating more, drinking more, and peeing more. At the same time, there is "one less", that is, weight and physical loss. Because young children can not accurately express their physical discomfort, parents need to pay attention to observe the changes of children's behavior and signs. Parents should be vigilant, and when the above situation occurs, they must see a doctor in a timely manner.
Experts remind that children with diabetes should pay great attention to diet, not only to supplement the amount of sugar needed for physical development, but also to strictly control the intake of excess sugar. Children with type 1 diabetes are lack of insulin and can only be supplemented by daily subcutaneous injection of insulin (or insulin pump), as well as blood glucose monitoring and diet planning. Hypoglycemia is a common acute complication in patients with diabetes. If not treated in time, life may be in danger. Playful love is the nature of teenagers, for teenagers with diabetes, to avoid strenuous exercise or long-term exercise. Parents of children must pay close attention to the physical condition of their children to avoid situations that may cause hypoglycemia. When the child is out alone, he or she should carry candy with him for reserve.
The women's health care waymart pa Diaries
February 19, 2017, 4:15 am / garrettozae210109.ampblogs.com
Whether you are looking for your Midwifery university or a nursing program to be a Ladies's Health Nurse Practitioner yow will discover it here. There are various programs, primarily at the Learn's degree amount, that provide a target the health of ladies. The curriculum of these programs is greatly comprised of obstetrical and gynecological education, as well as that of pre and put up natal care, as well as antepartum and new child care.
Say hi to everyone and explain to us a little about oneself! Take note: Tend not to article your questions/issues below. Post them in the appropriate classification or They are going to be moved.
I've to possess a stick to up process this year and I feel comfortable and self-assured that I am in the very best fingers with him. He's thoughtful health care provider who cares about his patients their well becoming.
Many of the nurses for the hospital experienced high regard for him and shared with me that "I used to be in the ideal care". It has been 6 weeks because my Procedure, and I am sensation fantastic. Furthermore, the Workplace at NW Women's Health Care is most aware of questions and I was made to experience quite comfortable all over the method. I am grateful to have discovered him and highly advocate him to Other people.
It is easy to agenda an appointment and when you allow a concept you will get a contact again promptly. I have by no means experienced any issues with them not running on time.
Let's face it. We are Girls and we like to gossip. Explore the who's who, and what is actually what in Hollywood & The remainder in this article! Moderator: ats
Thank goodness for the various favourable reviews since I knew he was the 1 to aid me! He handled women's healthcare tunics my complicated scenario without difficulty and professionalism. He gave fantastic guidance on my problem and was ready to answer all of my questions. Along with this I discovered your entire employees being really helpful.
At the end of the working day what it truly arrives down to is always that I have confidence in him, his know-how and his tips. He is taken definitely fantastic care of me and lots of relatives & buddies and has always handled our conditions with consideration, insight and ability... he's the ideal!
Your trust is our top concern, so businesses can not fork out to alter or take out their reviews. Learn more. × Lookup throughout the reviews
Tanveer B. mentioned "Great dentist. I've been going below for 10 years. Dr.B cares about women's health care grand junction his patients immensely and has kept my tooth fresh for this full time.
And After i say this, while I am no medical Skilled, it might be well worth noting which i did work in Unexpected emergency Medical Services For a long time, first being a 911 response EMT, then as an MA in an ER (both of those here in Seattle), and people experiences turned me from direct patient care since I feared my own essential human empathy would not very last a career within our healthcare technique. I at the moment work in administration at a major hospital here in Seattle, so have a lot of respect for physicians and possess satisfied my share of poor healthcare providers.
Her medical assistant, Leena, was also this kind of satisfaction being all over and I truly appeared forward to my appointments.
Journal of Women's Health, Issues & Care is a peer-reviewed, Worldwide, indexed hybrid journal which offers dual method of publication, open obtain & membership. This mode gives the suggests To optimize the visibility, citations and readership which boost the impact with the research work and provides An array of choices to get our article content as well as permits unlimited Internet Access to complete Journal articles.
I'd An important surgical procedure that has improved my quality of existence. I'd personally refer this place to any one and important site providing I are now living in Seattle they may continuously obtain my business. Thanks!
What Is Earth Energy Or Earthing? - Alternative Medicine
Home Alternative Health What Is Earth Energy Or Earthing?
What Is Earth Energy Or Earthing?
Dr Stephen Sinatra explains what 'earthing' is, speaking on whether this is the most important health discovery ever. Dr Sinatra is a self described integrative cardiologist, who believes in using the best of the both worlds, conventional as well as alternative medicine.
Earthing or use of earth energy, according to the doctor is something that can have profound implications on wellness. Earth energy is used in the same way for humans as for electrical energy wherein a person is required to be grounded to the earth as much as an electrical current.
As a cardiologist, nutrition specialist, certified bio-energetic psychotherapist, and an anti-aging specialist, Dr Sinatra uses his varied experiences and knowledge to offer alternative medicine solutions to his patients.
There is also a mention of the doctor and his techniques in the recent bestseller, Knockout by Suzanne Somers, where the actress explored alternative medicine options for her cancer treatment.
An integrative philosophy is the one that makes the most sense, since good health should be based on all of the facts that are available and not just selecting the facts that further one's own agenda.
Mahfuz I, Cheng W, White SJ - BMC Res Notes (2013)
Bottom Line: The use of buccal swabs in clinical and scientific studies is a very popular method of collecting DNA, due to its non-invasive nature of collection.However, contamination of the DNA sample may interfere with analysis.Contamination of buccal-derived DNA with bacterial DNA can be significant, and may influence downstream genetic analysis.
Affiliation: Centre for Genetic Diseases, Monash Institute of Medical Research, Monash University, 27-31 Wright Street, Clayton 3168, VIC, Australia. stefan.white@monash.edu.
Background: The use of buccal swabs in clinical and scientific studies is a very popular method of collecting DNA, due to its non-invasive nature of collection. However, contamination of the DNA sample may interfere with analysis.
Findings: Here we report the finding of Streptococcus parasanguinis bacterial DNA contamination in human buccal DNA samples, which led to preferential amplification of bacterial sequence with PCR primers designed against human sequence.
Conclusion: Contamination of buccal-derived DNA with bacterial DNA can be significant, and may influence downstream genetic analysis. One needs to be aware of possible bacterial contamination when interpreting abnormal findings following PCR amplification of buccal swab DNA samples.
DNA, Bacterial/genetics/isolation & purification*
Mouth Mucosa/chemistry*/microbiology
Saliva/chemistry*/microbiology
Bladder Exstrophy/diagnosis/genetics
Desmoplakins/analysis/genetics
Epispadias/diagnosis/genetics
getmorefigures.php?uid=PMC4222080&req=5
Figure 3: Alignment of the 153 bp PCR product with the Streptococcus parasanguinis plasmid pFW213 reference sequence. The sequences corresponding to the PCR primers are indicated in bold.
Mentions: Contamination was detected during mutation screening of the Desmoplakin (DSP) gene in buccal DNA of Bladder Exstrophy Epispadias Complex (BEEC) patients. Use of samples for research was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of Royal Children's Hospital (Approval Number# HREC28140A), Melbourne, Australia. Informed consent was also obtained from the patients or parents/guardians. The intention was to screen DSP exon 4 for potential sequence variants using High Resolution Melting (HRM) and Sanger Sequencing. For this, we designed exon-specific forward (5′ CTGTTTTCCTGCAGTGGTT 3′) and reverse (5′ TGGCCTGCACAGGTTTG 3′) primers, predicted to generate a 254 bp product. HRM was performed on 22 samples as previously described [11]. Five samples gave aberrant curves with HRM (Figure 1), and agarose gel analysis showed the presence of two bands in matching samples (Figure 2). Sanger sequence analysis showed that the 153 bp fragment did not align with any human sequence. Alignment with other organisms showed 98% identity with Streptococcus parasanguinis plasmid pFW213 [GenBank:EU685104.1] (Figure 3).
