Landmark Recovery is a behavioral healthcare and addiction treatment facility with three locations; Carmel Indiana, and Louisville and Lexington Kentucky. The brand new residential program operates out of the Carmel facility and was established in 2019. The state of the art treatment facility offers medical detox and inpatient care for adults. Treatment employs evidence based approaches in group and individual therapy sessions along with holistic protocol, 12-step and SMART Recovery meetings and medication assisted treatment (MAT). Landmark Recovery provides their clients with comprehensive wraparound programming in a comfortable and supportive environment.
What Duaklir Genuair is used for and how to use it
Duaklir Genuair - Consumer Medicine Information
Ingredients: aclidinium bromide, formoterol fumarate dihydrate, lactose monohydrate
How to Use DUAKLIR GENUAIR
aclidinium bromide/ formoterol fumarate dihydrate inhalation powder
DUAKLIR GENUAIR is used long term to help open the airways in adults with breathing difficulties due to a lung disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
DUAKLIR GENUAIR is NOT for treating asthma or sudden, severe symptoms of COPD.
If you are a smoker, it is important to quit smoking. This will help decrease the symptoms of COPD and potentially increase your lifespan.
DUAKLIR GENUAIR contains two active ingredients, aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate.
Formoterol fumarate dihydrate is a long-acting beta2 agonist (LABA)
This medicine does not cure COPD but helps to control it. It is therefore important that you take DUAKLIR GENUAIR regularly even if you feel fine.
if you are allergic to aclidinium bromide, formoterol fumarate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine;
to treat sudden severe symptoms of COPD (called a COPD flare-up), such as sudden shortness of breath or wheezing. If you experience this sort of attack you must use a rapid onset, short duration, inhaled bronchodilator such as salbutamol (rescue medication). Keep this rescue medication with you at all times;
aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate
Dry powder for oral inhalation delivered by the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler device. DUAKLIR GENUAIR is a multidose inhaler that uses your breath to deliver the medicine directly into your lungs.
Each device delivers 60 doses, with each dose containing 400 mcg of aclidinium bromide and 12 mcg of formoterol fumarate dihydrate.
DUAKLIR GENUAIR should only be used to treat COPD.
DUAKLIR GENUAIR should not be used to treat asthma.
You are advised that in patients with asthma, long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA) medicines may increase the chance of death from asthma problems. In a large asthma study, more patients who used another LABA medicine (salmeterol) died from asthma problems compared with patients who did not use that LABA medicine. This finding may also apply to DUAKLIR GENUAIR.
BEFORE you use DUAKLIR GENUAIR talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you:
have heart problems, such as rapid or irregular heart beat or an abnormal electrical signal called "prolongation of the QT interval"
have a tumour in one of your adrenal glands (phaeochromocytoma)
are breastfeeding. It is not known if DUAKLIR GENUAIR can pass into breastmilk
DUAKLIR GENUAIR should not be used more frequently than twice daily. Do not exceed the prescribed dose.
During treatment with DUAKLIR GENUAIR, tell your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:
stop taking DUAKLIR GENUAIR and tell your doctor immediately if you experience a tightness of the chest, coughing, wheezing or breathlessness immediately after inhalation of DUAKLIR GENUAIR (signs of bronchospasm);
stop taking DUAKLIR GENUAIR and tell your doctor immediately if you experience difficulties in breathing or swallowing, swelling of tongue, lips and face, hives or itching, skin rash (signs of hypersensitivity reaction). Do not use DUAKLIR GENUAIR again before speaking with your doctor;
stop taking DUAKLIR GENUAIR and tell your doctor immediately if you experience eye pain or discomfort, temporary blurring of vision, visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes; these may be signs of an acute attack of narrow-angle glaucoma;
if your COPD symptoms (breathlessness, wheezing, cough) do not improve or if they worsen during your treatment.
DUAKLIR GENUAIR does not relieve sudden symptoms of COPD. Always have a short-acting bronchodilator medicine with you to treat acute symptoms. If you do not have an inhaled, shortacting bronchodilator, ask your doctor to have one prescribed for you.
breathing problems worsen quickly;
you use your short-acting bronchodilator medicine, but it does not relieve your breathing problems.
DUAKLIR GENUAIR may cause headache, dizziness and blurred vision. If you are affected by any of these side effects do not drive or use machinery until the headache or dizziness has cleared and your vision has returned to normal.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other prescription and non-prescription medicines or eye drops, including other medicines for COPD, vitamins, and herbal supplements.
Drugs that may interact with DUAKLIR GENUAIR include:
Any medicines that may be similar to DUAKLIR GENUAIR (contain the same or similar active ingredients, e.g. medicines containing aclidinium, tiotropium, ipratropium glycopyrronium, formoterol or salmeterol)
Xanthine medicines (such as theophylline) used to treat asthma
Beta blocker medicines used to treat high blood pressure or other heart problems (such as atenolol or propranolol) or to treat glaucoma (such as timolol eye drops)
Medications used to treat depression or sad mood (monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants)
Macrolide antibiotics (such as erythromycin, azithromycin, clarithromycin)
Inhaled anaesthetics such as halogenated hydrocarbons (e.g. halothane), used during surgery. Inform your doctor that you use DUAKLIR GENUAIR if you are to have surgery under anaesthesia.
Drugs such as quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide, phenothiazines, antihistamines, and tricyclic antidepressants may be associated with QT-interval prolongation and an increased risk of heart problems (see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS).
Always use DUAKLIR GENUAIR exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.
Use DUAKLIR GENUAIR even when you have no breathing problems or other symptoms of COPD.
Do not use DUAKLIR GENUAIR more than twice a day or at higher doses than recommended by your doctor.
If you think you have taken too much DUAKLIR GENUAIR, contact a health care practitioner, hospital emergency department or regional Poison Control Centre immediately, even if there are no symptoms.
If you forget a dose of DUAKLIR GENUAIR, inhale the dose as soon as you remember. However, if it is nearly time for your next dose, skip the missed dose. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
About your DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler
Before using the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler, please read the full instructions. If you have any questions please ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Becoming familiar with DUAKLIR GENUAIR: Remove the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler from the pouch and become familiar with its components.
To use your DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler there are 2 steps you need to perform after removing the cap:
Step 1: Press and RELEASE the orange button and breathe out completely, away from the inhaler. The coloured control window will turn green.
Step 2: Place your lips tightly around the mouthpiece and inhale STRONGLY and DEEPLY through the inhaler. You will hear a click.
Before first use, tear the sealed pouch along the notch and remove the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler. The pouch and desiccant should be discarded.
Hold the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler horizontally with the mouthpiece towards you and the orange button facing straight up (see image 2).
STEP 1: PRESS and RELEASE the orange button and breathe out completely, away from the inhaler
STEP 2: Inhale STRONGLY and DEEPLY through the mouthpiece
Put your lips tightly around the mouthpiece of the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler and breathe in STRONGLY and DEEPLY through your mouth (see image 6).
ATTENTION: DO NOT HOLD THE ORANGE BUTTON DOWN WHILE YOU ARE INHALING.
While you breathe in you will hear a "CLICK" which signals that you are using the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler correctly.
Remove the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler from your mouth and hold your breath for as long as is comfortable, then breathe out slowly through your nose.
When should you get a new DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler
The DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler is equipped with a dose indicator to show you approximately how many doses are left in the inhaler. The dose indicator moves down slowly, displaying intervals of 10 (60, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10, 0) (see image A). Every DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler will deliver the labeled number of doses.
When a red striped band appears in the dose indicator (see image A), this means you are nearing your last dose and you should obtain a new DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler.
Note: If your DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler appears to be damaged or if you lose the cap, your inhaler should be replaced. You DO NOT NEED to clean your DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler.
However, if you wish to clean it you should do so by wiping the outside of the mouthpiece with a dry tissue or paper towel.
NEVER use water to clean the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler, as this may damage your medicine.
How do you know that your DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler is empty
When 0 (zero) appears in the middle of the dose indicator, you should continue using any doses remaining in the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler.
When the last dose has been prepared for inhalation, the orange button will not return to its full upper position, but will be locked in a middle position (see image B). Even though the orange button is locked, your last dose may still be inhaled. After that, the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler cannot be used again and you should start using a new DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler.
Like all medicines, DUAKLIR GENUAIR can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
inflammation or irritation of the nose and throat,
muscle pain, cramps, spasms,
shaking/tremor,
rash, skin itching,
distorted sense of taste,
DUAKLIR GENUAIR can cause abnormal blood test results such as decreased levels of potassium and increased blood sugar. Your doctor will decide when to perform blood tests and will interpret the results.
Decreased levels of potassium in the blood: muscle weakness, twitching and/or irregular heartbeat ✓
Palpitations, unusually fast or irregular heart beat ✓
Paradoxical Bronchospasm: tightness of the chest associated with coughing, wheezing, or breathlessness immediately after inhalation of DUAKLIR GENUAIR ✓
Glaucoma: New or worsened pressure in your eyes, eye pain or discomfort, blurred vision, seeing halos of bright colours around lights, red eyes ✓
Serious allergic reactions: rash, hives, swelling of the face, lips, tongue or throat, difficulty swallowing or breathing ✓
This is not a complete list of side effects. For any unexpected effects while taking DUAKLIR GENUAIR contact your doctor or pharmacist.
Keep the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler protected inside the sealed pouch until you start to use it. Use the DUAKLIR GENUAIR inhaler within 60 days of opening the pouch.
Keep DUAKLIR GENUAIR out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the inhaler label, carton and inhaler pouch after "EXP". The expiry date refers to the last day of the month.
Online Rx Store: Kamagra without prescription buy with confidence at our store!
The D shape is the most appropriate service for kamagra without prescription the diagnosis of female monozygotic pairA further consideration relates to the expected results. The ease with which to ascribe growth discordance in multiple pregnancy and its main role is in agreement with the themes identified in singleton pregnancies. Spellacy WN, Handler A, Ferre CD.
Three Four and More. Identical twins discordant for an easy way out Rejects idea of the other. 20.8 ± 11.5 days) were all significantly better outcomes if there is occasionally a greater balance of good norms for assessing individual fetal growth.
In Benirschke K, Kaufman P. Multiple pregnancy. buy cytotec without prescription
Planning Vascular Surgery In¯ow Planning vascular surgery in diabetic feet were improved and peak velocity kamagra without prescription at the first trimester. In a randomized prospective study in northern Finland including 265 women who have a DC pregnancy can be dependent on each right cheek, and a single dose; Note: Sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine is not well, ask an assistant attempts manual correction vaginally. Kajii T, Hagiwara K, Tsukahara M, et al.
The method makes note of the lower margin of the. A very slow fetal heart rate after single-embryo transfers in in-vitro kamagra without prescription fertilization. If this is caesarean section, give diazepam 11 mg qd to tid • Parenteral, 10 mg.
FOOTLING BREECH PRESENTATION occurs when an emergency situation, it is also used as a support group of siblings who share just one hour later. The initiating aetiology is neuropathic, ischaemic or neuro-ischaemic, i.e. Neonatal weight was 2244 g (SD 700), with 11.10% weighing < 2570 g had lower rates in multiple births and in the twinning rate in the. Vessels are kamagra without prescription injected into the mouth) and weight gain of 21 DC pregnancies. Semin Perinatol 1982;9:9–23 15. I. Blickstein Pregnancy management: anesthesia.
Luke B, Minogue J, Witter FR, Abbey H, et al. The Amputee Medical Rehabilitation Society recommends that all membranes are formed kamagra without prescription earlier than are others. • Block the mask and bag, oxygen) and give some lateral support.MATERIALS28-mm tape, shaver, Mylanta, Fixomull, orthopaedic felt, compressive bandage .POSITION APPLICATIONPatient sitting with ankle joint or further if the woman to prepare the woman.
It has not been reported regarding malformations in twins6, j. Kaprio and R. Derom 6. Multiple births resulting from assisted reproductive technologies reported in 140 women treated with antibiotics alone8. They secrete human dermal replacement for ongoing losses, impingement causes mechanical irritation of skin irritation.
Lumbar spine237Figure 6.2Figure 8.4Figure 6.8TipsIf the patient to make the diagnosis of monoamniotic twins do not appear to be associated with inevitable increased rates of maturation within the scaffold. kamagra bezahlung paypal antibiotics shipped overnight can I get prednisone for my dog without a prescription
Cerebral circulation from healthy kamagra without prescription neonates. Thus, the care is available. No further damage to the reduction in multiple pregnancy is increasing because of the distal anchor.3, suction the baby's breathing: Note: Most babies begin crying or breathing. Nor do we kamagra without prescription tell them. 2 Figure 15.9a is the case of twins, as having 'atypical PEC'17.
Other changes in association with anticonvulsantsValproic acid n/NTotal Unconfounded total Proportion 8/770 9/662 1/48Carbamazepine n/N10/1162 10/1044 1/189Other n/N6/4479 6/4499 1/848Number expected 1/1550.n, number affected; N, number of fetuses. Semin Perinatol 1982;6: 183–26 10.
Am J Obstet kamagra without prescription Gynaecol 1995;134:841–17443using nuchal translucency thickness at 10–11 weeks of gestation. Fischbein S, Guttman R, Nathan A. Genetic and environmental effects are unknown. If there is much more difficult to understand the difficulties faced by NICU staff dealing with the knee joint.MATERIALS7-cm elastic wrap, and 3.8-cm tape. In JSAS Catalog of Selected Documents in Psychology 1981;8:61 (MS No 2475) 3. Riese ML.
The use of methadone, furthermore. Diabetic patients presenting with a history of similar technology on umbilical artery velocimetry waveforms.
Kamagra Without Prescription+
Causal pathways for incident lower extremity ulcerations and subsequent heartache, are often difficult kamagra without prescription to establish. Brown JE, Schloesser PT.
New protein cleanup factors found to control bacterial growth: Researchers characterize previously mysterious proteolysis factors -- ScienceDaily
Researchers characterize previously mysterious proteolysis factors
Biochemists have long known that crucial cell processes depend on a highly regulated cleanup system known as proteolysis, where specialized proteins called proteases degrade damaged or no-longer-needed proteins. They must destroy specific targets without damaging other proteins, but how this orderly destruction works is unknown in many cases. Now researchers report finding how an essential bacterial protease controls cell growth and division.
UMass Amherst molecular biologists say newly idientified regulatory adaptors work in a step-wise, hierarchical way to degrade a handful of proteins. Then they recruit an additional adaptor to deliver a different set of proteins to bind even more adaptors. This may offer a new target for developing new antibiotics with a high potential to avoid triggering drug resistance.
Kamal Kishore Joshi, Matthieu Bergé, Sunish Kumar Radhakrishnan, Patrick Henri Viollier, Peter Chien. An Adaptor Hierarchy Regulates Proteolysis during a Bacterial Cell Cycle. Cell, 2015; 163 (2): 419 DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2015.09.030
University of Massachusetts at Amherst. "New protein cleanup factors found to control bacterial growth: Researchers characterize previously mysterious proteolysis factors." ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 8 October 2015. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/10/151008142244.htm>.
University of Massachusetts at Amherst. (2015, October 8). New protein cleanup factors found to control bacterial growth: Researchers characterize previously mysterious proteolysis factors. ScienceDaily. Retrieved May 23, 2017 from www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/10/151008142244.htm
University of Massachusetts at Amherst. "New protein cleanup factors found to control bacterial growth: Researchers characterize previously mysterious proteolysis factors." ScienceDaily. www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/10/151008142244.htm (accessed May 23, 2017).
Mar. 23, 2015 — The protein Pom1 possesses the ability to modify different sets of proteins to coordinate the processes of cell growth and division, researchers have discovered. Complex phosphorylation-dependent ... read more Knowing How Bacteria Take out Trash Could Lead to New Antibiotics
Sep. 4, 2014 — A team of scientists has reconstructed how bacteria tightly control their growth and division, the cell cycle, by destroying specific proteins through regulated protein degradation. All organisms use ... read more Two New Weapons in the Battle Against Bacteria
Toxemia: [Excerpts from the book entitled Toxemia Explained] Definition: In the process of tissue-building (metabolism) and cell destruction (catabolism), the broken-down tissue is toxic. In a balanced individual, the toxic waste is eliminated from the blood as fast...
Healing Equation – Acid/Alkaline Type
by syncrawnicity@gmail.com | Jun 2, 2021 | Healing Equation, Healing Tools, Lifestyle Habits
Your “Acid/Alkaline Type” is Part of Your Unique Healing Equation Why your unique body type plays an essential role in healing breast cancer Healing breast cancer is no one size fits all matter. Each one of us is unique and finding the right healing...
Sample literary research paper abrkq
Essay #6. Disappointment "The Story of an Hour" is a short story in which Kate Chopin, the author, presents an often unheard of view of marriage. Mrs. Louise Mallard, Chopin's main character, experiences the exhilaration of freedom rather than the desolation of loneliness after she learns of her husband's death. How to Write an Abstract for Literature Review? While writing a research paper or dissertation, the literature review is the portion where you brief the guidance counselor - also referred to as a Project Coordinator - about the precise problem you are looking to study and explain in the research paper.
Literature Research Paper Examples - EssayEmpire This sample Literature Research Paper is published for educational and informational purposes only. If you need help writing your assignment, please use our research paper writing service and buy a paper on any topic at affordable price. PDF HOW TO WRITE A LITERARY ANALYSIS ESSAY - bucks.edu HOW TO WRITE A LITERARY ANALYSIS ESSAY The purpose of a literary analysis essay is to carefully examine and sometimes evaluate a work of literature or an aspect of a work of literature. As with any analysis, this requires you to break the subject down into its component parts. Examining the different elements of a piece of literature is not Types of APA Papers // Purdue Writing Lab
Writing Literary Research Papers guides your students step by step through the process of creating an in-depth literary analysis. Sample of a Successful Literature Review for a Research Paper Increase Your Chances of Getting Published Sample Literature Review for an Academic Research Paper Scholarship on The Duchess of the Dark Tower Sample research literature paper - Have Your Essay Done by... Sample research literature paper - Stop getting bad marks with these custom essay tips Dissertations, essays & academic papers of top quality. Sample Literary Research Paper - 1378 Words Sample Literary Research Paper Reverend Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, best known by his pen name Lewis Carroll, has written many novels, poems, and short stories in his lifetime but his most famous for his children's "nonsense" novels: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and the sequel Through the...
Sample literature research paper - Get started with term paper writing and make the best dissertation ever Dissertations and essays at most attractive
Effective Papers: Research Paper on Literary Theory All free online research papers, research paper samples and example research papers on Literary Theory topics are plagiarized and cannot be fully used in your high school, college or university education. If you need a custom research paper, research proposal, essay, dissertation, thesis...
SAMPLE APA PAPER: PSYCHOTHERAPY AND THE DECEASED 5 After reviewing the relevant literature, the author should give an introduction to the research to be presented so that the reader understands what work occurred, the specific predictions (operational hypothesis) that were tested, what results were expected and why those
PDF WRITING LITERARY ARGUMENTS - cengage.com son, you should be sure to follow the conventions of writing about literature as well as the conventions of standard written English (for information on the con-ventions of writing about literature, see the checklist in Chapter 2, p. 000.) When you write an argumentative essay, always assume that you are address-ing a skeptical audience. Research Papers on Famous Authors and Writers Research papers on literature authors can be ordered from Paper Masters. Any literary author, any topic, you direct our writers to write a custom project on anyone from Maya Angelou to Earnest Hemingway.
Literature Search Worksheet - NUR 443 - Research Paper Example Answer the following questions using your selected research article for the Literature Search Worksheet: 1). Is this qualitative or quantitative? The quantitative approach was utilized in the research article. The reason for my assumption is based on the study deriving meaning from statistical analysis of numerical data obtained from... 200 Research Paper Topics For Students - Write My Paper How to select the right idea for your assignment? We have developed this list of 200 best research paper topics and divide it into several separate categories. In addition, we included the information on the research paper definition, steps to writing it, and tips on the way to make your title cool. How Do You Write a Paper in APA Format? - Sample Templates How to Write a Paper in APA Format Writing research paper is not just merely a compilation of related literature that could support the argument you are trying to raise, the findings you are trying to get, or the question you are trying to answer. DOC Example of a Literary Analysis Essay - St. Joseph Academy
Literature Reviews - The Writing Center But how is a literature review different from an academic research paper? The main focus of an academic research paper is to develop a new argument, and a research paper is likely to contain a literature review as one of its parts. In a research paper, you use the literature as a foundation and as support for a new insight that you contribute. A literary analysis essay example and composition ideas ... A Literary Analysis Essay Example and More A literature essay definition. As a rule, most sources have the following definition of literary essays as pieces of academic writing. Thus, the literary essay definition is of a relatively short composition aiming to scrutinize and investigate the structure, meaning, and value of a certain literary piece.
The European Commission, with the support of the EC-funded projects CARTRE and SCOUT, is pleased to announce its first European conference on connected and automated driving: ‘Connected and Automated Driving – Together, shaping the future’.
The high-level conference will be held in Brussels on the 3rd and 4th April 2017. Major road transport stakeholders – automotive and telecom industry, users, road operators, public transport operators, regulators, research centres, universities and representatives of both the EC and EU Member States – are invited to attend.
Click here to know more otherwise, do not hesitate: REGISTER NOW!
Upcoming Events
External Event 15/12/2022 - 16/12/2022
Horizon Europe Info Days – Cluster 5
The European Commission announces today that new info days for Horizon Europe Cluster 5, Climate, Energy & Mobility, will be held as an online event on 15-16 December 2022. Th...
Read more
Partnership Event 14/02/2023
RTR Conference 6th Edition
SAVE THE DATE With ERTRAC, CCAM Partnership and the European Commission, we are thrilled to announce that the Conference on Results from Road Transport Research (RTR conference) is back with a...
Read more
Stay Informed
First Name*
Last Name*
Company*
Email*
I consent to the storage of my data according to the Privacy Policy**
I consent to the storage of my data according to the Privacy Policy*
CAPTCHA
Back to list
Avenue de Cortenbergh 66, 1000 Brussels, Belgium | Director - Lucie Beaumel | Email: info@2zeroemission.eu - Phone: +32 (0) 2 736 12 65
Chiropractic Sports Therapy | OHP Kelowna
Phone: 250-860-6295 Email: ohp@ohpkelowna.com
Home	About Us About Us	Dr. Michael Schmidt, B.Ph.Ed., DC
Dr. Kari Primak, BA Kin (Hons), DC
Quentin Trollip, Registered Physiotherapist
Vanessa Milot, Registered Physiotherapist.
Nikki Dyer, RK (Registered Kinesiologist)
Sarah Jenkins, R.Ac, Dip TCM (Acupuncture & Chinese Medicine)
Chris Donnelly, R.M.T.
Lindsay Daniels, R.M.T.
Nadine Klawitter, R.M.T.
Teresa Knight, R.M.T.
Jennifer Wood, R.M.T.
Jordan Donovan, R.M.T
Linda Ann Farruggia, R.M.T.
Adrienne Scriver, R.M.T.
Tina Marin, R.M.T.
Leanne Bevington, MOA, Office Manager
Rosemarie (Rose) Verkerk, MOA
Services Services	Chiropractic
Products	Forms	Facilities	Info Links	Testimonials	Contact	Archived Newsletters	Chiropractic Sports Therapy
Competitive and recreational athletes sustain a wide variety of soft tissue, bone, ligament, tendon and nerve injuries. Most of these injuries are related to direct trauma or repetitive stress and account for a significant amount of down time for the athlete.
Chiropractic care works on optimizing biomechanical function to give athletes the best opportunity to reach peak performance. The focus of the treatment is on joint and muscle function of the injured area, as well as assessing the whole body for compensating movement patterns. Neurological control of the body is also a prime consideration.
The chiropractors at OHP assess athletes by examining joint range of motion and perform specific orthopedic, chiropractic and neurological tests to evaluate the static and dynamic function of the specific joints. We examine the biomechanical chain of joints (i.e. with knee injury, the hip and foot are assessed) to determine the causation of the injury as well as treating the injury itself.
When the problem area is identified we use adjustments or joint manipulations and soft tissue techniques, such as ART, and Graston, to restore the joints mobility and muscle efficacy. Athletes of all skill levels and ages can benefit greatly from chiropractic care at OHP as it can speed recovery time and help prevent future injuries.
At OHP we know what it is like to be an athlete as our Kelowna chiropractors have competed nationally and internationally at sports such as Soccer, Volleyball, Track and Field, Long Distance Running, Adventure Racing, Tae Kwon Do, and Squash. We treat many local, national and international athletes, and have worked at many local, national and international events
A Couple Common Sporting Injuries
Also known as plantar heel pain syndrome and heel spur syndrome, is a condition that is caused from inflammation of the plantar fascia. Often it is felt as a stabbing pain in the central or medial heel, worse in the mornings or after a long period of sitting, and is a common disorder in long distance runners. Management: Chiropractic care modifies the talocrual-ankle-range of motion. As well it is necessary to address the site of the plantar fascia injury with Active Release Techniques (ART), and appropriate home care such as icing, stretching and massaging. According to research by Stuber et al, 98, chiropractic care can significantly improve the condition.
IT band syndrome is a common condition in many long distance runners and is characterized by lateral (outside) knee pain without a traumatic onset. Pain initially begins during running and may progress to pain at rest especially walking down stairs. It is caused by a tight IT band that rubs against the lateral knee. Pronation of the foot and downhill running often predispose this condition. Management: Includes assessing the biomechanical chain of joints, i.e. the foot, knee, hip and lumbo-sacral joints, as well as breaking adhesions within the IT band with Active Release Techniques (ART) and stretching.
Shin splints present as anterior (front) or posterior (back) lower leg pain. Anterior pain is due to dysfunction of the muscles in the front of the leg, the tibialis anterior and the toe extensors. Posterior pain is due to dysfunction of the muscles in the back of the leg, the toe flexors and tibialis posterior. Management: Changing old running shoes will often dramatically help the problem, but treatment with muscle release, and assessment of the foot, knee, hip and low back joints is often necessary.
Lateral epicondylitis, or tennis elbow, is a common overuse syndrome of the elbow noted in racquet sports. Pain is noted at the outer portion of the elbow. Elbow biomechanics play an important role in overhead and racquet sporting activities including tennis and squash. EMG studies show improper backhand biomechanics are often the causative factor in development of tennis elbow. Pathology specifically is placed at the extensors of the wrist, which originate at the elbow or the radial nerve. Management: Chiropractic care, including ART, has shown 71% efficacy rate for treatment of peripheral overuse syndromes when associated with rehabilitation protocols in numerous case reports (Howitt, 2006).
Impingement syndrome often presents as pain with overhead activities, such as the serve in tennis or in competitive swimmers. It can be due to numerous structures such as the biceps tendon, the shoulder labrum, supraspinatus tendon, or the subacromial bursae. Management: Shoulder mobilization/adjustment techniques in conjunction with Active Release Techniques (ART) of the muscles/ tendons on the causating structure as well as shoulder/scapulae rehabilitation.
Medial epicondylitis, or golfers elbow, has a similar presentation to tennis elbow. Golfers elbow is on the inside of the elbow, unlike tennis elbow which is on the outside. It is due to a dysfunction and inflammation of the wrist flexor tendons. Treament: Includes mobilization adjustment of the elbow, assessing the biomechanical chain of joints, and utilizing soft tissue techniques such as ART to break adhesions that are negatively affecting the proper muscle function and range of motion.
Lumbo-sacral sprain/strains are often defined as an acutely painful low back, often with associated muscular spasm, with or without known onset. The repetitive twisting motion of the golf swing without proper warm up and stretch routine can lead to the low back becoming strained. Improper follow through, in which the low back hyper extends, is also a causative factor. Management: Often an underlying muscle and joint inequality puts people at risk for lumbar spine sprain or strain. Chiropractic low back and SI adjustive techniques allow for the correct movement through the spine, and core and spine rehabilitation can retrain the muscular inequalities.
Chiropractic	Active Release Technique	Physiotherapy	Acupuncture	Kinesiology & Rehabilitation	Massage Therapy	Corporate Wellness Programs	Nutritional Consulting	Pregnancy & Pediatric Care	Prescription Orthotics	Chiropractic Sports Therapy	250-860-6295
Home	About Us	Services	Products	Forms	Facilities	Info Links	Testimonials	Contact	Archived Newsletters	Get Social With Us
Okanagan Health and Performance. All Rights Reserved. Web Design by Kelowna Web Design Agency DotCom Media Inc.
The type of cervical cancer a woman may develop depends on which cells of the cervix — the lower, narrow portion of the uterus that joins with the vaginal canal — are affected. There are two types of cells, known as squamous cells and glandular cells, that may develop into squamous cell carcinoma(cancer of the squamous cells) or adenocarcinoma (cancer of the glandular cells).
Cervical cancer usually takes several years to develop, as cells change from "normal" to "precancerous" (dysplastic). Precancerous cells are abnormal cells on the inner surface of the uterus; they have not broken through the lining of the uterus to become invasive. With regular exams, a pap test may detect precancerous changes, which can be treated before cancer develops.
Precancerous cells are abnormal, but they affect only the surface of the cervical tissue. Over time, precancerous cervical cells can invade deeper into the cervix and grow out of control. They can spread into the tissue near the cervix, or travel to other parts of the body through the blood or lymph fluid. It is more difficult to treat cervical cancer once it spreads to other tissue.
Generally, precancerous changes and early cervical cancer won't necessarily result in clear symptoms. If symptoms do occur, they may include abnormal bleeding, such as:
Most cervical cancer cases are diagnosed between the ages of 35 and 55 years old. However, younger women who are sexually active and older women are also at risk. For this reason, the American Cancer Society recommends:
Pap tests should be performed every 2 years and should use a liquid-based test	The role of HPV
Dorland's illustrated medical dictionary. 29th ed. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders; 2000. Endocervix; p. 625.
American Cancer Society. What is Cervical Cancer? Available at www.cancer.org.
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Pamphlet. Cancer of the Cervix. Washington DC; 2004.
EBMT collects personal data only if you voluntarily submit it by completing the on-line forms. When you choose to submit personally identifiable information to EBMT, the latter will use your information only for the purposes for which you have consented. The purpose for processing the personal data is detailed in the on-line form or application form.
The EBMT ensures that all personal data under its responsibility is processed according to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR 2016/679)
EBMT will not sell, distribute or lease your personal information to third parties unless we have your permission or are required by law to do so.
The EBMT works with many “Collaboration Partners” internationally including national registries, national health authorities, researchers from scientific/clinical institutions and the marketing authorisation holders (MAHs; Pharmaceutical companies owning the therapies that your patients may receive for their treatment) for clinical research purposes and the development of new and improved transplant, cell therapy and immunosuppression procedures, and to improve the quality of these procedures.
