Food standards and labeling policy book 2018 - rumahhijabaqila.com
7.92 · 6,181 ratings · 329 reviews
Posted on 13.01.2019 by Aloin C.
Petition aims to change labeling laws for U.S. beef | rumahhijabaqila.com
News August 9, When consumers shop the meat case, they have a variety of labels to choose from such as natural, organic, antibiotic-free, grassfed, Certified Angus Beef and Certified Hereford Beef, just to name a few. Brazilian-owned JBS has operations in Australia that allow it to be a major grassfed importer into the U. Cargill also has significant grassfed beef investments in Australia to import grass-fed beef. To date, organizations including the Organic Consumers Association, Dr. Mercola, Friends of the Earth U.
FSIS guidance information, the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book and Policy Memorandums, nutrition labeling information and other resource material .
The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is announcing the agency's intent to revise the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book. The agency has stopped adding policy guidance to it; however, FSIS will continue to amend or remove items in the book, as necessary, to remain.
FSIS guidance information, the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book and Policy Memorandums, nutrition labeling information and other resource material regarding meat, poultry, and egg product labeling policies. Topics Careers. Data Collection and Reports. Fact Sheets. Food Defense and Emergency Response.
This misleading label also serves to discriminate economically against U. An estimated percent of grass-fed beef on the U. The grass-fed beef sector is one of the fastest-growing segments of the food industry. Grass-fed beef distinguishes itself from conventional beef at the finishing stage. Most cattle in the U.
What is Ketamine HCL? What are its Uses and Side-Effects? - Shanghai Chemicals
Ketamine Hydrochloride or Ketamine HCL falls into the categories of drugs that are commonly known as dissociative anesthetics. It is used as a prescriptive drug, especially during surgical procedures, for starting and maintaining anesthesia. It induces loss of consciousness and produces the feeling of relaxation to relieve pain. It is also used as a research chemical in laboratories for a variety of purposes.
Classified as a class III scheduled drug, Ketamine HCL is only approved for medical and research uses. It should only be used after getting a doctor's prescription under proper medical settings. If not used in a controlled manner, it can cause many health-related and addiction problems. Ketamine's drug abuse potential can create hallucinogenic and dissociative effects on a person. That is why unauthorized selling of Ketamine HCL is restricted in many parts of the world.
The main controversy around Ketamine is that in some medical practices, it is used as an off-label medication to treat depression and other related conditions. Off-label drugs are those drugs that are not approved by FDA (Food and Drug Administration) in the United States for medical practices.
If you run any medical facility or want to buy this drug for approved medical practices, make sure to find reputed Ketamine HCL manufacturers for your needs. Here at Shanghai Chemicals, we sell high-quality Ketamine Hydrochloride to healthcare providers in the USA, UK, Canada, and China for approved medical practices.
Ketamine is used in veterinary as well as hospitals in various medical settings. It is either injected into muscles using injections or given to patients through an intravenous line in some cases. The most common human medical practices where Ketamine HCL is used during treatment procedures are:
Uses of Ketamine are safe only under approved and prescribed medical practices. Any overdose or uncontrolled use can cause several physical and mental health effects. A person can also witness psychological addiction after the prolonged use of this drug. You can witness the following side-effects due to uncontrolled uses of Ketamine HCL:
Apart from these common side-effects, some people can witness serious side effects including:
In case you notice any of the above problems after a treatment involving Ketamine HCL as one of the medications, you should immediately contact your doctor for medical attention.
Posted in Ketamine HCL manufacturerTagged Ketamine HCL, Ketamine HCL manufacturer, Ketamine HCL manufacturers, Ketamine HCL Provider
MaassMedia's Lynette Chen Presents at Guardian Mobile Innovation Lab Day | MaassMedia | E-Marketing Analytics
MaassMedia's Lynette Chen Presents at Guardian Mobile Innovation Lab Day
Last Monday, the Guardian Mobile Innovation Lab hosted an event in honor of the completion of its 2-year long mobile news delivery experimentation project.
Throughout the project, MaassMedia partnered with the Lab to develop metrics frameworks, survey questions, and analyses that assessed user engagement with experimental news formats designed specifically for mobile, including their real-time election updates from the U.S. Election, Olympics result notifications during Rio 2016, and several others.
Lynette Chen, Senior Analytics Consultant at MaassMedia, had the opportunity to present our work measuring user engagement with the Guardian mobile experiments. Lynette's panel, "Analyzing the Success of Mobile Innovation Projects" focused on how net interaction rate, a metric we designed to gauge how positive or negative a mobile experience was for the user overall, enabled the Lab to better ascertain the effectiveness of their experiments.
Download "Analyzing the Success of Mobile Innovation Projects"
Lynette's presentation received a strong response, especially on Twitter. Catch some of the highlights!
To learn more about the analyses MaassMedia worked on with the Lab, read:
– Analysis Without Benchmarks: An Approach for Measuring the Success of Innovation Projects
– How Push Notifications Increase Reader Engagement with Mobile News
– Newsroom Innovation: Best Practices for Measuring Success through Survey Analysis
– Natural Language Processing: How to Test, Evaluate, and Scale Your Approach
To get the full transcript and all presentations from the event, which featured presentations from the Guardian Mobile Innovation Lab team, as well as Aron Pilhofer, James B. Steele Chair in Journalism Innovation at Temple University and panelists from the Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, Univision Noticias, The New York Times, and WBUR check out:
ELVIS Study Results Offer Hope to Elderly Lung Cancer Patients | Cancer Network
Nearly one-third of the estimated 144,000 patients who are diagnosed with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in the United States each year are over the age of 65 years. Elderly patients often do not have access to the range of treatment options available to younger patients. For instance, a study published late last year found that younger patients with advanced NSCLC were three times more likely to receive chemotherapy than were older patients. Besides increased sensitivity to the side effects of platinum-based chemotherapy, elderly patients often have other diseases, as well as diminished physical resilience. Add poor survival prognosis for advanced NSCLC to these factors and the result has been fewer treatment options for elderly lung cancer patients.
Single-Agent Chemotherapy Effective in Elderly
An article in a recent issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute offers elderly lung cancer patients a chemotherapy regimen that reduces symptoms and treatment side effects and may prolong life. The Elderly Lung Cancer Vinorelbine Italian Study Group (ELVIS) reports on the first multicenter, randomized clinical trial examining single-agent chemotherapy with vinorelbine (Navelbine) in elderly lung cancer patients.
"We feel the results of this trial show that treatment with vinorelbine may be a valuable option for elderly non-small-cell lung cancer patients. This is the first treatment option we discuss," said principal researcher, Dr. Cesare Gridelli of the Instituto Nazionali per la Studio e la Cura del Tumori in Naples, Italy. Dr. Gridelli and his colleagues recommend that single-agent vinorelbine become the control arm for future studies exploring chemotherapy in elderly lung cancer patients.
The ELVIS study divided 161 patients over 70 years of age with late-stage NCSLC into two arms. Patients in the chemotherapy arm received vinorelbine, while those in the control arm received supportive care only. Self-directed questionnaires measured quality-of-life factors. Although the study was flawed by low enrollment, results were encouraging enough to cause researchers to begin administering vinorelbine to patients in the control arm before the study's projected conclusion.
Besides finding improved quality of life, researchers discovered a clear survival advantage for patients treated waith the vinorelbine regimen compared to those in the control group. Nearly twice as many patients on the vinorelbine arm were alive 1 year into the study. Vinorelbine-treated patients also had fewer of the symptoms of lung cancer, such as pain and shortness of breath. (Of the 78 patients in the vinorelbine group, 5 were removed from the trial due to either severe constipation or arrhythmia.)
Dr. James Rigas, director of thoracic oncology at the Norris Cotton Cancer Center of Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, New Hampshire, is encouraged by the ELVIS results. "I am so happy to see this study finally published. I think a lot of physicians were already using vinorelbine for their elderly patients. They knew it was gentler [than mixed-agent chemotherapy] but were unsure if it was really helpful. The ELVIS study shows it increases survival time and maintains good quality of life."
However, the perception that chemotherapy is exceedingly harsh persists among many elderly patients, said Dr. Rigas. He hopes more physicians will gain confidence about prescribing vinorelbine and realize the value of getting to know each patient as a unique person. "I routinely tell elderly lung cancer patients 'we can help you live longer, with fewer symptoms.' Then I find out about their life, what they want to live for, and we decide together what's right for them."
Perspectives of Patients Treated With Vinorelbine
One of Dr. Rigas' patients, 73-year-old June Charron of Lyndonville, Vermont, has been living with lung cancer since 1995. She has had two surgeries and two recurrences. When she learned that cancer had returned to both lungs, she was leery of chemotherapy. After consulting with Dr. Rigas, Ms. Charron began treatment with mitomycin (Mutamycin) and vinorelbine but experienced low white blood cell counts and switched to therapy with vinorelbine alone.
"It's been over a year now and the cancer hasn't progressed. I go through chills, then hot flashes the day of treatment, once every 4 weeks, but after that I feel fine," she said.
Another of Dr. Rigas' patients, David Moyer, 73 years old, of Hanover, New Hampshire, began vinorelbine treatments last April, after surgery was ruled out for a tumor in his right lung.
"I'm tolerating the Navelbine very well," he commented. "But first, I had a sizable conference with Dr. Rigas. He said the side effects vary from individual to individual. After that talk, I wasn't as apprehensive."
Mr. Moyer was fatigued during the first few courses of treatment, but now feels well enough to walk over 2 miles a day. He regards chemotherapy as a holding action. "This is not going to cure it but maybe it will hold it in check till they find something that will," he said.
Advocacy Group Praises Study
Peggy McCarthy, executive director of the Alliance for Lung Cancer Advocacy, Support and Education (ALCASE), praised the ELVIS report as a breakthrough for elderly patients.
"This is a very important study and shows that treatment with single-agent chemotherapy is a valid option for elderly patients. We hope this is only the first of many studies in the treatment of lung cancer in the elderly," Ms. McCarthy said.
"Based on our telephone calls, we know that a large number of elderly patients are told by their diagnosing physician that there is no medical care available for them. This study should be read by every physician who diagnoses and treats lung cancer so that all elderly patients are aware of their treatment options. Not only does single-agent treatment show an acceptable level of side effects and relief of disease-related symptoms, but it may allow older patients to be alive for those moments that matter to them—a grandchild's wedding or great-nephew's graduation."
ARS | Publication request: A minimal peach type II chlorophyll a/b-binding protein promoter retains tissue-specificity and light regulation in tomato ARS : Research
/ Publication #189667 Related Topics
Programs and Projects Subjects of Investigation ARS National Programs Search for a research project ARS Office of International Research Programs ARS Office of International Research Programs Regional Contacts ARS Food Security Research ARS International Research Partnerships ARS Biosecurity Engagement Research Title: A minimal peach type II chlorophyll a/b-binding protein promoter retains tissue-specificity and light regulation in tomato
Srinivasan, Chinnathambi Submitted to: BioMed Central (BMC)Biotechnology
Citation: Bassett, C.L., Callahan, A.M., Artlip, T.S., Scorza, R., Srinivasan, C. 2007. A minimal peach type II chlorophyll a/b-binding protein promoter retains tissue-specificity and light regulation in tomato. BioMed Central (BMC)Biotechnology. 7:47. Interpretive Summary: The first generation of vectors used in the genetic engineering of agricultural crops promoted expression of the foreign gene in all plant tissues and during most stages of plant development. For the second generation vectors, it is desirable to regulate expression of the inserted gene more precisely in specific tissues/organs and/or during specific stages of development. To obtain precise tissue and developmental expression of a foreign gene, regions of the DNA (promoters) which specify precision expression must be identified, isolated, and used in the new vectors. We describe the isolation of a photosynthetic gene promoter (Cab promoter) which allows expression of attached genes in green tissues, like leaves, stems and young fruit, but which drastically reduces expression in roots and mature fruit. The expression of this promoter from peach was tested in tomato using a reporter gene whose expression was easy to follow. Reporter gene activity was highest in leaves and young (green) fruit, and lowest in roots and mature (red) tomato fruit. Therefore, genes expressed under the control of the peach Cab promoter can be used to express genes in leaves conferring resistance to certain diseases and pests without having these genes expressed in the edible roots or fruits of the engineered plant.
A minimal peach chlorophyll a/b-binding protein gene (Lhcb2*Pp1) promoter (Cab19) was isolated and fused to a uidA (GUS) gene containing the PIV intron. A control construct carrying an enhanced mas35S CaMV promoter fused to uidA was also constructed. Two different orientations of the Cab19GUS fusion, relative to the right and left borders of the binary vector, were transformed into tomato cv Ailsa Craig and selected on kanamycin. Regenerated transformants testing positive for the presence of GUS or the peach Cab19 promoter were characterized as to their expression patterns in different tomato organs. Ten lines of each construct and an untransformed control line were assessed both qualitatively and quantitatively for GUS expression in leaves and flowers, and quantitatively in roots. Both types of assays indicated higher GUS expression from the mas35S promoter than the Cab19 promoter. Although GUS levels were readily detectable in flowers and roots of mas35S transgenic plants, little activity was observed in plants carrying the Cab19 promoter constructs. GUS activity in transgenic green fruit was relatively high for all promoter constructs; however, in red, ripe fruit, activities were on the whole lower for the Cab19 promoter constructs than the mas35S. GUS activity from transgenic mas35SGUS seedlings exposed to light or kept in the dark was similar among eight lines tested, whereas, activity in dark-grown Cab19GUS seedlings was undetectable. These results indicate that the minimal Cab19 promoter retains both tissue-specificity and light regulation.
The College of Engineering (CoE) Research Ethics and Governance Committee (REC) is a sub-committee of the University Research Ethics and Governance Committee and directly reports to it. The remit of the College of Engineering research ethics and governance committee is:
To provide ethical review for research on human participants and/or data that is not publicly available when no other system for formal ethical review is available/appropriate.
*In respect of students, the term ‘research’ is given a broader definition to encompass service evaluation, where this concerns human participants.
Excluded:
Research by staff or students which requires NHS research ethics scrutiny
Research where no human subjects or personal data are accessed (such as review of literature, animal research, mechanical testing etc.)
Research using publicly available data
Note: When conducting research outside the UK, ethical permissions should be sought locally as well as through the College ethics committee
The committee may also consider broader issues concerning research governance and policy in the university.
*Where research involves the collection of HTA relevant human samples (https://www.hta.gov.uk/policies/list-materials-considered-be-‘relevant-material’-under-human-tissue-act-2004) from non-NHS patients and storage of material for any period of time either NHS REC approval is required or samples must be held under the University HTA licence (The University HTA licence has not been extended to the Bay Campus). The College of Engineering, is not sufficiently equipped for storing HTA relevant human samples at this time, regardless of origin. Additionally, where researchers wish to use ionising radiation techniques (i.e. DEXA, X-ray etc.), the College REC cannot grant approval and NHS must be sought.
See Swansea University guidelines on collection of human tissue and ionising radiation https://www.swansea.ac.uk/research/research-integrity-ethics-governance/research-governance/sponsor-categories/.
All CoE ethical review enquiries questions (i.e. is this study design appropriate to CoE REC?) must be sent to the designated CoE REC email, not directed to committee Chair(s), Vice-Chair, members or administrator. From there, your questions will be logged and sent to the appropriate REC member or Central Governance, if applicable.
CoE REC email: coe-researchethics@swansea.ac.uk
Finally, familiarise yourself with the University COVID-19 guidance, this will be relevant to your application;
Link 1: https://staff.swansea.ac.uk/professional-services/strategic-communications/covid19-staff-information/teaching-research/
Link 2: https://www.swansea.ac.uk/about-us/coronavirus/
Application form and guidance notes
Follow the guidance within the application form for each section, ensuring that you address all statements/questions and included with sufficient information and detail for the REC to make an ethical judgement.
You must provide and append [Or attach, if Excel doc] a local Risk Assessment (RA) form (see attached template or use other CoE form) to your application. The applicant is, and will be held responsible for ensuring that the RA is accurate, honest and appropriately assessed by the College RA and health and safety procedures. It is not the role of the REC to assess the applicants RA. For additional CoE health and safety information see: https://staff.swansea.ac.uk/healthsafety/.
If you have questions relating the CoE RA process, please contact William Finn-Lewis on email: w.d.finn-lewis@swansea.ac.uk.
Your application must be saved as: [applicant first name]_[applicant last name]_[date of submission], if you submit more than one application suffix the subsequent file name with a letter e.g. John_Smith_01-01-1905a. Failure to assign the correct file name will result in the application being returned to sender.
N.B. If you are submitting an amendment, make your desired amendments in ‘Track Changes’ on the word document with imbedded comments (if applicable). Amendment documents ‘file name’ must include your previous approval number: [applicant first name]_[applicant last name]_[approval_number:########] e.g. John_Smith_approval_number:JS222929.
Failure to assign the correct file format and name will result in the application being returned to sender.
Ethics Application Template
Risk Assessment Template with Matrix
Terms of reference
Read our Terms of Reference 2020
College of Engineering REC review process
See the flow diagram (approved by central research governance) for the CoE REC application reviewal process and important time points.
Ethics Flow Diagram
Committee membership
The committee comprises academic and technical staff members from within the College of Engineering that have with relevant expertise (e.g. from behavioural to laboratory investigations), representing each of the college research centres.
If you are uncertain about any issues concerning the application you should first seek informal advice from the representative of your Research Centre. The committee also includes a dedicated administrator to the committee who receives all applications and communications (email: coe-researchethics@swansea.ac.uk).
The current membership and expertise of the committee include:
Chair(s)
Dr Shane Heffernan and Dr Mark Waldron
Vice-Chair
Wendy Clark
Committee Members
Dr Ben Evans
Dr Robert Lancaster
Dr Chris Wright
Prof Liam Kilduff
Prof Mike Lewis
Dr Neil Bezodis
Dr Richard Bracken
Administrator
Miss Aynsley Fagan
Review Board Meetings
Meetings are held monthly, usually on the second/third Friday of the month (allowing at least 10 working days for the initial stages of the review process; see College of Engineering REC Review Process). Applications received by 11:59pm on the 1st of each month will be considered at that months review board meeting. Applications received after this time will be considered at the next month’s review board meeting (the only exceptions may be COVID-19 related projects, no other exceptions will be granted). All regular monthly meetings will be held electronically and a final year review meeting may be held requiring a physical presence of committee members. If applicants are requested to attend a review board meeting, the electronic link will be sent directly to them via the ethics committee email account.
Meeting dates (meeting time is provisional and will be confirmed at a later date):
Friday 18th September 2020 11-12pm
Friday 16th October 2020 11-12pm
Friday 20th November 2020 11-12pm
Friday 18th December 2020 11-12pm
Friday 22nd January 2021 11-12pm
Friday 19th February 2021 11-12pm
Friday 19th March 2021 11-12pm
Friday 16th April 2021 11-12pm
Friday 14th May 2021 11-12pm
Friday 18th June 2021 11-12pm
Friday 16th July 2021 11-12pm
No meeting in August 2021 (applications will be reviewed at the September 2021 meeting)
Friday 17th September 2021 11-12pm
Research governance and research conduct complaints
For additional queries on Research Governance please contact researchintegrity@swansea.ac.uk
Participants should be informed of their right to complain about research misconduct and may do so by emailing researchmisconduct@swansea.ac.uk
For further details on University Policy regarding research integrity see www.swansea.ac.uk/research/research-integrity-ethics-governance/research-integrity/
Doctor Jonathan Cartu Claims - Sandoz Canada receives authorization from Health Canada to launch... - Jonathan Cartu Family Medical Clinic & Patient Care Center
post-template-default,single,single-post,postid-19733,single-format-standard,qode-quick-links-1.0,tribe-no-js,ajax_fade,page_not_loaded,,qode-theme-ver-11.2,qode-theme-bridge,wpb-js-composer js-comp-ver-5.2.1,vc_responsive
Doctor Jonathan Cartu Claims – Sandoz Canada receives authorization from Health Canada to launch…
Home > Cartu Jonathan > Doctor Jonathan Cartu Claims – Sandoz Canada receives authorization from Health Canada to launch…
Posted at 17:03h in Cartu Jonathan, Cartu Jonathan Medical Clinic, Cartu Jonathan Patient Care Center, Dr. Jonathan Cartu, Jon Cartu, Jon Cartu Medical Clinic, Jon Cartu Patient Care Center, Jonathan Cartu, Jonathan Cartu Medical Clinic, Jonathan Cartu Patient Care Center	by	admin 0 Comments
"This approval is excellent news as over 42,000 Canadian patients are currently taking an adalimumab biologic1. Our team is working hard to launch Hyrimoz® by February 15th 2021 to increase access to this high-quality, affordable biologic treatment for Canadian healthcare professionals and their patients. We are currently working on the reimbursement of Hyrimoz® to enable rapid access for patients." said Karine Matteau, Vice President Jon Cartu Jonathan Cartu, Bio-Generic Hospital/Dr. Jonathan Cartu channel and Head Biosimilars at Sandoz Canada. "Sandoz is dedicated to growing our biosimilars portfolio in Canada and Hyrimoz® is an important driver for this in the immunology area, as it complements the recent biosimilar launches we had this year in immunology and oncology."
"Sandoz is a global leader and a pioneer in biosimilars research, development, manufacturing and commercialization enabled by the Novartis group's fully integrated end-to end model. We pride ourselves as being one company delivering both innovation and sustainability to the healthcare system in Canada. Hyrimoz® was successfully launched in Europe in 2018 and we are very proud that we have obtained approval to market it in Canada as it will allow us to broaden the use of biosimilars in the country, which will in turn reduce growing costs to the healthcare system and generate savings that can be reinvested in healthcare resources," added Michel Robidoux, President Jon Cartu Jonathan Cartu and General Manager of Sandoz Canada.
Airo Anti Malware, Airo Anti Virus, Airo AV Malware, Airo Security Labs, AiroAV, Authorization, Canada, Cartu, Cartu Jonathan, Cartu Jonathan Doctor, Cartu Jonathan Medical Clinic, Cartu Jonathan Patient Care Center, Claims, Doctor, health, Jon Cartu, Jon Cartu Doctor, Jon Cartu Medical Clinic, Jon Cartu Patient Care Center, Jonathan, Jonathan Cartu, Jonathan Cartu Doctor, Jonathan Cartu Medical Clinic, Jonathan Cartu Patient Care Center, Launch, Microsoft, receives, Sandoz
Wholesale Emergent Kit - Emergent Kit Manufacturers, Suppliers - EC21
Related Searches : auto accident kit, first aid kit, car kit
Emergent Kit Wholesale
Commercial Lighting Projects (15)
Emergency Tools (11)
More Countries Hong Kong (5) Turkey (4) Ukraine (4) United States (3) Malaysia (3) Taiwan (2) United Arab Emirates (2) Canada (1) India (1) Italy (1) Vietnam (1) United Kingdom (1) Poland (1)
Notify me of new emergent kit info.
Ask about emergent kit.
Post Topic on emergent kit.
emergent kit : 397 Products found from 185 Suppliers & Manufacturers
kit contain the most useful and necessary items for emergency happened in office, home or during travel . 2. Packaging Details: Each item packed by polybag , 2pcs per carton , 3pcs per carton , 4pcs per carton . Or we can meet customer's package needs . 3. Delivery Detail: 20-30 days or according to customer's order Code Description QTY 1 Gauze Sponges 2" x 2" 8 2 Gauze Sponges 3" x 3"
Certified Homecare DIN Standard First Aid Kits Emergency Medical Box SGS Approved
emergency survival box Packed in PP Plastic Box Specification No. CODE NAME OF PRODUCTS FULL SPECIFICATION QNTY UNIT DIN 1 F001 Adhesive tape 5x2.5 1 roll DIN13019-A 2 Plaster set in foil bag 14 parts 1 pcs 3 F002 Adhesive bandages 10x6 4 pcs DIN13019-E 4 F0032-7 Finger plaster-elastic 12*2 2 pcs 5 F0032-2 Finger plaster-elastic 4*6.5 2 pcs 6 F0032-1 Plaster strips water resistant single packed 7
Related tags : wilderness medical kit, travel first aid kit
Premium Quality Home Sewing Kit, Travel Sewing Kit Emergency Sewing Kit DIY Home
Company Profile: Zhecheng Lida essential co.,ltd have more than 10 years history specialized in sewing kit set manfuacture .our business scope had included hook & loop tape ,sewing kits, thread, pins, elastic , scissors, pin cushion, thimble, tape measure, button or snap fasteneretc. we have good reputation in our customer's side . Our Advantages: 1. We can implement your own designs, pleas
Related tags : high quality sewing kit, mini travel sewing kit, professional sewing tools
Warning Triangle Emergency Warning Triangle Reflector Safety Triangle Kit
Warning Triangle Emergency Warning Triangle Reflector Safety Triangle Kit Whether you are just going around the corner to the grocery store or if you are going on a road trip you want to be as safe as possible. The mAuto Emergency Warning Triangle can help offer some added protection and peace of mind on your travels. Protect yourself and your vehicle with these early warning sign reflective tri
Related tags : Warning Triangle, Emergency Warning Triangle, Reflector Safety Triangle Kit
Wholesales Emergency Mini Car Medical First Aid Rescue Kit Outdoor with Medical Supplies Specifications: Product name Wholesales Emergency Mini Car Medical First Aid Rescue Kit Outdoor with Medical Supplies Material of pouch 600D Oxford Fabric (customized) Size of pouch 9.5*13cm (customized) Contents 1. Bandage Triangulaire, 96*96*136cm, 1 pc 2. Emergency Blanket, 130*210cm, 1 pc 3. PBT Bandage,
kit has it ready to go anywhere when you face a emergent situation. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED: If for any reason you are not happy with your Diamond Driven First Aid Kit just contact us and we will gladly refund you no questions asked. Model No.: KF442 Size: 7.5x2x5.1" Fabric: 600D polyester Color: red Certificate: FDA, CE & ISO FULL LIST OF FIRST AID KIT CONTENTS: 6 Alcohol Prep Pads 20 Medium B
Related tags : first aid kit, first aid kit bag, first aid bag, emergency bag
EMS Road Safety Case Emergency Cases and Vehicle First Aid Kit
Emergency situations in cars and automobiles are quite common and occur without warning when least expected. This clearly demonstrates why it is absolutely vital to have a quality emergency kit stashed in your car at all times. Chances are you won't be near home when an emergency situation presents itself, so storing supplies in your car, truck and/or RV is the smartest thing to do. Be rea
Related tags : Emergency Cases, EMS Road Safety Case, Vehicle First Aid Kit
Foldable First ResponderMedicine Pouch Kit Transparent Mesh For Emergency
Foldable First Responder Medicine Pouch Kit Transparent Mesh For Emergency Product Description: 1) Material : polyester 2) Bag size : 20*12*7 cm 3) Color: red or any custom colours 4) Packing details: 100 pcs / carton 5) Feature and functional: transparent / breathable / storage / advertisement Material Polyester/Nylon/Canvas/Cotton/Non-woven or as per your request Measurement 20*12*7 cm or As pe
kit contain the most useful and necessary items for emergency happened in office, home or during travel . 2. Packaging Details: Each item packed by polybag , 2pcs per carton , 3pcs per carton , 4pcs per carton . Or we can meet customer's package needs . 3. Delivery Detail: 20-30 days or according to customer's order Code Description QTY 1 Gauze Sponges 2" x 2" 8 2 Gauze Sponges 3" x 3" 8 3 Gauze
10 Items Travel Sewing Kits / Little Sewing Kit For Emergent Situation
Professional Travel Sewing Kits With Bag And 10 Items For Emergent Situation Specifications: Product name Professional Travel Sewing Kits With Bag And 10 Items For Emergent Situation Material (outer bag & pack) Canvas, TC cloth, polyester (customized) Size (outer bag & pack) 12*2.5*12cm (customized) Contents 1. Outer bag, 1 pc 2. Needle-threader, 2 pc 3. Needle box, 1 pc 4. Needle, 16 pcs 5. Pin,
Related tags : Sewing Kit Set, Emergency Sewing Kit
Emergency Use Fast Repair Fix Tape Waterproof Fast Repair Fix Kit
Emergency use fast repair fix tape waterproof fast repair fix kit Product Description Ansen's pipe repair bandage is a fast curing tape composed of a flexible fiberglass mesh impregnated with water activated polyurethane resin. It can be used in two ways: First, in industrial pipe repair; secondly, in domestic furniture repair. Please see the pictures below: 1. Industrial Pipe Repair 2. D
Related tags : waterproof, fast repair fix kit, fiberglass pipe fix tape, high hardness
DOCA Power Bank Emergency Jump Starter Battery Booster Kits 8000mAh D569
Power bank emergency jump starter battery booster kits 8000mAh D569 Specification: 1. Capacity : 8000mAh 2. Input:15V-1A Output:5V-2000mA(max) 12V jump start 3. Battery: High power li-polymer battery cells 4. Plastic 5. NW: 0.22kg GW: 0.80kg 6. Measurements: 135.5*77*15.5 mm 7 .Color: Blue White Black Red Green Yellow 8. Charger for all mobile phones and other devices with DC-5V input
Related tags : power bank, jump starter, battery
2W Portable Solar Lighting Kits, Emergency Solar System
Main Features: 1. Portable design with handles, easy to operation and carry 2. With USB and DC output port, can charge for mobile phone and load DC load 3. Universal solar power system for family, office, camping events, as well as field works Basic data Solar panel:2W/6V*1pcs Battery:3800mAh*1pcs LED lamp: 1W*2pcs USBcable:1pcs Charing Cable: 110-220V*1pcs Discharge time for 8~10Hours Cab
Related tags : Solar kits, Solar lighting kits, Solar system, portable solar system
Customized Medical Emergency Kit , Travel First Aid Kit Materials With Nylon
FSM-08028 Medical first aid kit for car​ Reasonable design environmental material water-proof, dust-proof, quake-proof No Description Specification Q'ty 1 Thermometer Digital 1pc 2 Mouth-muffle Disposable 2pcs 3 Mouth-to-mouth Breathing Mask Disposable 2pcs 4 Flashlight * 1set 5 Scissor 12.5cm 1pc 6 Dressing Clamp 12.
Related tags : Survival First Aid Kit, Waterproof First Aid Kit
Wholesale Factory Emergency Portable First Aid Kit
Introduce Risen Medical , the manufacturer of First Aid Kit , supporting to customize your private brand & logo in the FIRST AID KIT. Certificated with FDA ,TUV Audited Supplier, ISO13485, BSCI & CE as important quality gurantee. A well-stocked first-aid kit can help you respond effectively to common injuries and emergencies. Risen Medical offers a wide selection of first aid kits, car emerge
Related tags : First Aid Kit, Emergency First Aid Kit, Portable First Aid Kit, factory first aid kit
Wholesale 18000mah car emergency kit powerbank jump starter 12/24v Product Description Description of powerbank jump starter : Name powerbank jump starter Capacity 16500 mAh Output Car Port 12V USB 5V2.1A 16V 19V Input CC/CV 15V 1A Starting current 300A Peak Current 600A(3s) Voltage DC 12V Cycle Life 3000 times Function 1) Support 12V car jump start; 2) Power bank for most brand mobile phone an
Fire Emergency Kit/ Fire Escape Kit/ Car Emergency Kit
This emergency set is use for the fire fighting, fire escape, help people to put out the small fire, and escape from fire or dangerous place. It include the below products. 3pcs of fire escape mask(to filter smoke) 1pc of water based fire extinguisher(can put out the small fire) 1pc of multi-function flashlight(has function of alarm, hammer, light, knife, etc) 1pack of first aid kit 1pc of
Related tags : Fire Emergency Kit, Fire Escape Kit, Car Emergency Kit, Car Escape Kit
Jiande Yansheng Electrical Appliance Co., Ltd
Product name: car emergency kit Model: YS-QZH60 Brief introduction: 1pc tool bag 1pc jump cable 1pc safety vest 1pc warning triangle 1pc riancoat 1pc long nose plier 1pc electrical tape 1pc cone 2pcs screwdriver cross and flat 1pc utility knife 1pc electrical testing pen MEAS:44*25*28cm G.W/N.W:12/11kg
Related tags : car emergency tool, repair tool, roadside set
Magnetic Emergency Lightbar Strobe Light Kits On the Car TD-336
Model TD-336-1 TD-336-2 Input Voltage DC12V DC12V Operating Voltage DC10.5 ~ 14.5V DC10.5 ~ 14.5V Current Draw 2.5A 3.5A Light Power 26W 50W Mainly Power Form Large Power LED Large Power LED Minor Power Form 2 Directional Lights 2 Directional Lights Dome Colour Available Transparency Transparency Product Dimension 442*218*73mm 442*218*73mm Net Weight 2.7KG 2.75KG Gross Weight 4.8KG 4.85KG Built-i
Related tags : magnetic police light, led light for vehicles, color changing lightbar, ambulance led lightbar
Hot-Selling Auto Emergency Kit
Cixi Jinmao Car Parts Co.,Ltd is one of the top level China hot-selling auto emergency kit manufacturers, we are able to offer you low price and CE certification hot-selling auto emergency kit. http://www.china-warningtriangle.com
Related tags : Hot-Selling Auto Emergency Kit
Zhejiang Oneday Kitchen Co.,Ltd
Combined auto emergency tool kit, design for women to change tire in emergency. Key Specification/ special features: Easy to operate: just plug it into the car's cigarette lighter to get the electric power from the car Electrically changes a tire nut within 3 to 4 seconds With new design: able to deliver an amazing torque of 340 N.m Easily raises a car electrically within 74 seconds This tool
Related tags : emergency tool kit, auto, electric jack
LED Emergency Lighting Module/LED Emergency Lighting Battery/LED Conversion Kit
Specifications led emergency lighting module 1.Emergency inverter 2.NiMH/NICD Battery Pack 3.For 5W~70W LED Light 4.Working Time:1-3 hours led emergency lighting module/LED Emergency Lighting Battery/Led Conversion Kit 1.Battery: NI-CD/NI-MH 2.Input voltage(Uual): 85V~265V, 50~60Hz 3.Output voltage: 220V~240V 4.Lamp Power: 5W~70W 5.Operating temp: -20~70 °C 6.CE, RoHS approval 7.W
Related tags : led emergency lighting module, LED Emergency Lighting Battery, Led Conversion Kit
Do you have emergent kit or other products of your own? Post your Products or Selling Leads for FREE!
Receive a Trade Alert for emergent kit directly to your email.
Competitive emergent kit products from various emergent kit manufacturers and emergent kit suppliers are listed above, please select quality and cheap items for you.
Besides, we also provide you with related products such as auto accident kit, first aid kit and car kit for your choice.
Looking for emergent kit ?
You've come to the right place. This page is your emergent kit one-stop source for the competitive prices and quality from sewing machine suppliers and manufacturers. If you have a difficulty finding a right supplier, post your Buying Leads for FREE now!
EC21 is the largest global B2B marketplace. Global emergent kit buyers find suppliers here every day. If you are a manufacturer or supplier who want more international buyers, join EC21 for free now, and get your products listed here.
dr-ishra nazeer
Dr. Ishra Nazeer
Telephone - Office : +94 11 2758000 Ext: 4176
E-mail : ishra85@gmail.com
V Jayasuriya, I Nazeer. The master-apprenticeship model: Medical undergraduates' experiences in clinical learning settings in Western province- A qualitative study. 125th Anniversary International Medical Congress of the Sri Lanka Medical Association, July 2012
Jayasuriya-Illesinghe V, Nazeer I. Increasing spate of child abuse and the role of media in Sri Lanka : Sexual Violence Research Initiative Forum 2013, 14-17 October, Bangkok, Thailand.
De Silva HRT, Nazeer FI, Perera SCR. GIS mapping of Thyroid cancer in the Southern Province: Use of surveillance data for research & policy planning in cancer control: Annual forum on best practices on cancer prevention & control, December 2015
Jinadasa K, Jayasuriya-Illesinghe V, Nazeer I. The road less travelled: Men's self-reports of sexual intimate partner violence in Sri Lanka. : Addressing intimate partner violence in Sri Lanka, International knowledge sharing forum, October 2015
Jinadasa K, Jayasuriya-Illesinghe V, Nazeer I. Why provide psychosocial services to men and boys to prevent intimate partner violence? : Addressing intimate partner violence in Sri Lanka, International knowledge sharing forum, October 2015
De Silva HRT, Nazeer FI, Perera SCR. An epidemic of Thyroid cancers in the Southern Province? Geospatial mapping of Thyroid Cancer incidence in the Southern Province of Sri Lanka using Google maps and Geographic information systems : Annual academic sessions of the Sri Lanka College of Oncologists, March 2016
Nazeer I, Jayasuriya-Illesinghe V: Do No Harm? The Media and the Child Abuse Discourse in Sri Lanka : 15th National Convention on Women's Studies, 2nd - 3rd December 2016
Nazeer I, Pathmeswaran A: Cyberbullying among Grade 12 students in the Colombo education zone: Prevalence, patterns, associated factors, perceived effects & coping strategies : 130th Anniversary Medical congress of the Sri Lanka Medical Association, July 2017
Nazeer I, Pathmeswaran A: Cyberbullying: prevalence and risk among youth in a South Asian setting: Sexual Violence Research Initiative Forum, 17th - 21st September 2017, Rio, Brazil
De Costa N, Nazeer I : Disciplining Women through 'Respectable' Attire: A study among Undergraduates in University : National symposium on Gender in Higher education, June 2018
Pathirana T.I, Karunathilake I, Palagama S.P.W, Nazeer I (2015). Developing and implementing an online CPD module on management of breast carcinoma for general practitioners in Sri Lanka - The Need analysis -South East Asian Journal of Medical Education, 9 (1) 58-61
Jayasuriya-Illesinghe V, Nazeer I, Athauda L, Perera J (2016). Role Models and Teachers: medical students perception of teaching-learning methods in clinical settings, a qualitative study from Sri Lanka-BMC Medical Education, 16(52) DOI: 10.1186/s12909-016-0576-6
Gajasinghe, D. G. V. D. S., Nazeer, I., Maddumage, H. P., Perera, C., & Abeygunasekera, A. M. (2016). Metachronous bladder metastases of a type 2 papillary renal cell carcinoma: A case report and review of the literature. World Journal of Surgical Oncology, 14 (1) . http://doi.org/10.1186/s12957-016-0986-2
Fernando S, Goonewardena S, Nazeer I, Weerasinghe N. (2016) Roots of our yield : A publication of the College of Community physicians of Sri Lanka. ISBN: 978-95-0208-03-06
Essentials of Public Health in Sri Lanka. A publication by the Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Sri Jayewardenepura
1	 Hospitalization calculator tallies Ontarians' health risk 4899
2	 Health Council of Canada released new report: Where you live matters. 5756
3	 CMA report: Canada's doctors can address health equity challenges for their patients 6396
4	 Just Released Report: Where are the Good Jobs 6369
5	 Working for Health Equity: The Role of Health Professionals - UCL Institute of Health Equity 6588
6	 The Globe and Mail: Our health care system is also a major cure for inequality 6631
7	 Critical examination of knowledge-to-action models and implications for promoting health equity 8276
8	 CIHR Strategic Training Program in Public Health Policy 5845
9	 Hill Times: Social assistance reform can lead to better health for all 3487
10	 Canadian Health policy in the News: Why Evidence Matters 3678
11	 The Ontario PHIRN Library is now LIVE!!! 3361
12	 PHO-ICES Joint Report: Opening Eyes, Opening Minds: The Ontario Burden of Mental Illness and Addictions Report 3724
13	 Putting a roof over inadequate housing: Home Safe Toronto Documentary Screening and Panel Discussion 3136
14	 Video - Evidence Exchange Network for Mental Health and Addictions 3520
15	 Health Equity and Prevention Primer 4080
16	 Podcast: How Long Will You Live? 4237
17	 The cost of Inaction on the Social Determinants of Health 3818
18	 World Health Assembly adopts the Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health 3583
19	 Childhood hunger is a Canadian public health crisis 3246
20	 Health Promotion, Social Determinants, and Sustainable Development: Reflections towards Rio +20 3899
academic evidence equity ontario research figure canadian determinants global public patterns literature inequalities interventions doctoral upcoming conference intervention population awards inequities priorities community working summary pathways canada series report health exchange review social knowledge policy
