Dr. Margaret J Nachtigall - Endocrinology specialist in New York NY
Dr. Margaret J Nachtigall is an Endocrinology Specialist in New York, New York. She graduated with honors from New York University School Of Medicine in 1988. Having more than 29 years of diverse experiences, especially in ENDOCRINOLOGY, OBSTETRICS/GYNECOLOGY, Dr. Margaret J Nachtigall affiliates with Nyu Hospitals Center, and cooperates with other doctors and specialists without joining any medical groups. Call Dr. Margaret J Nachtigall on phone number (212) 683-0519 for more information and advises or to book an appointment.
251 E 33rd St 5th Floor New York, NY 10016-4804
0749449858
Dr. Margaret J Nachtigall attended to New York University School Of Medicine and then graduated in 1988
NPI #: 1023156627
Dr. Margaret J Nachtigall has been primarily specialised is Endocrinology for over 29 years.
Obstetrics & Gynecology / Reproductive Endocrinology 181181 New York
New York, New York 10016-4804
Phone: (212) 683-0519
This doctor profile was extracted from the dataset publicized on Oct 20th, 2017 by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and from the corresponded NPI record updated on Jan 4th, 2012 on NPPES website. If you found out anything that is incorrect and want to change it, please follow this Update Data guide.
Valium or Diazepam is a medication belonging to the benzodiazepine family of drugs that acts as an anxiolytic. Valium works by enhancing the activity of specific neurotransmitters of the brain.
Buy Valium online from a trusted online pharmacy without hassle. Compare the rate at which the medicine is available at different sites. Before buying the drug, check the shipping and delivery services.
It is readily available in the market, but you can avail of it at discounted rates from our website. So, order Valium online from our online pharmacy, 'Onlinepainpills.'
Read carefully and follow the directions on the prescription label and instruction sheets. If anything is not clear, then take your doctor or pharmacist's help to understand the instructions well.
Take Valium orally with or without food as per your doctor's prescription. If you take the liquid form of this medicine, measure the dose carefully using a dose-measuring device.
For concentration solution, use the medicine dropper and mix the dose with a small amount of liquid or soft food such as pudding or applesauce. Take all the mixture instantly rather than storing the variety for later use.
If you suddenly stop taking Valium, you could face withdrawal symptoms such as:
To avoid withdrawal, take your doctor's help in gradually lowering the doses.
You should avoid taking Valium if you are allergic to it or other benzodiazepines such as temazepam, oxazepam; or if you are dealing with other allergies.
This product may have inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions and other issues.
Before using this medication, discuss your medical history with your doctor or pharmacist, especially of:
Lung or breathing issues such as sleep apnea, COPD-chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder;
An individual or family history of any substance use disorder (such as abuse or addiction to drugs or alcohol);
Mental or mood changes such as psychosis, depression, thoughts of suicide
This drug may cause dizziness or drowsiness or blur your vision. Avoid driving any vehicle or performing any activity that requires alertness and clear vision. Avoid consumption of alcohol. Inform your doctor if you are taking marijuana (cannabis).
Older adults are more likely to face this drug's side effects, especially loss of coordination and drowsiness. Diazepam can have adverse effects during some cases, and it can result in mental or mood changes such as hallucinations, agitation, restlessness.
Valium is not under the recommendation for use by a pregnant woman. The use of this medicine during pregnancy may harm an unborn baby. It can pass into the breastmilk also and cause undesirable effects in a nursing baby.
Valium helps treat alcohol withdrawal symptoms, anxiety disorders, or muscle spasms and stiffness. Sometimes, it is helpful to treat seizures with other medications.
It is helpful as a premedication for inducing anxiolysis, sedation, or amnesia before specific medical procedures. Valium is useful as a nasal spray to interrupt seizure activity in patients with epilepsy.
Diazepam is helpful in the treatment of the following conditions:
Panic attacks, anxiety, and states of agitation;
Symptoms of opiate, alcohol, and benzodiazepine withdrawal;
neurovegetative signs concerning vertigo;
Oxygen toxicity during hyperbaric oxygen therapy; or
Anxiolysis, sedation, or insomnia
Dizziness, drowsiness, blurred vision, tiredness, or unsteadiness may occur. If any of these effects are bothersome or lasts for longer than expected and get worse, contact your doctor or pharmacist instantly.
Tell your medical healthcare provider immediately if you have any severe side effects, including:
Mental or mood changes such as agitation, memory problems, confusion, hallucinations, depression, restlessness;
Signs of infection- fever, chills, sore throat that doesn't go away
Get instant medical help if you have shallow breathing.
Avoid consumption of alcohol. It can result in dangerous side effects, or death may occur.
Interaction of grapefruit or grapefruit product with Valium may lead to unwanted side effects. Avoid using grapefruit products.
Avoid driving any vehicle or performing hazardous activity until you know how this medicine will affect you. Dizziness or drowsiness can cause accidents, falls, or severe injuries.
Small Change Could Stop Epilepsy Seizures for Millions ( Medicine costing less than three dollar...)
Medicine costing less than three dollars a year per patient could spar...Some 85 percent of epilepsy sufferers in the developing world go...The least expensive of these medications phenobarbital has bee...A drug trial of 108 children in Bangladesh however comparing p...A follow-up study a year later confirmed the initial findings. C...
Medicine costing less than three dollars a year per patient could spare 30 millions poor people, many of them children, from the trauma and torment of epilepsy, a new study released Friday has found .
Charleston Medication Reactions Injury Lawyer | Berthold Law Firm, PLLC
Medication Reaction Attorney in Charleston
Without the proper treatment to prevent or address an adverse reaction, the patient can suffer severe and even fatal consequences. If you have had a poor reaction to medication, please do not hesitate to reach out to our Charleston medication error lawyers to learn more about your legal rights.
Our Charleston medication reaction lawyers look at every detail involving your case. There may have been a discrepancy in how the doctor viewed your chart or interpreted the results of a laboratory exam. We want to make absolutely certain that negligence played a role in your case. Then we begin the course of taking legal action to help you pursue justice.
Lambeth Black Health and Wellbeing Commission Report | Black Thrive
The death of Sean Rigg prompted the launch of the Black Health and Wellbeing Commission (BHWC) in October 2013, established by the Lambeth Health & Wellbeing Board and led by Lambeth Councillors Ed Davie and Jacqui Dyer.
The commission's report, From Surviving to Thriving, summarised evidence from over 150 individuals and a wide range of organisations. The report highlighted 40 recommendations of action agreed upon by various organisations delivering and commissioning mental health services in Lambeth which would improve the way services are designed and delivered. Within these recommendations, there are 3 key themes:
Prevention of ill health and promotion of health and wellbeing
Access to appropriate services
Since the report was published in 2014, a Task and Finish Group was established to in 2015 to review the progress in the borough towards achieving the 40 recommendations of BHWC's report. Whilst some progress was made in holding local stakeholders to account, it was clear that a sustained effort would be required. More recently, the inquest into the death of Olaseni Lewis has put into question the rate of progress in treatment and support available.
Lambeth Hospital Closure consultation
Covid 19 Rapid Responses
Information on UCL approach to Covid-19
Programme and Partnerships Manager (employment)
Race, mental health, and criminal justice: Moving forward
This report explores how pathways for people from BAME communities can be more effectively integrated to provide the most appropriate and timely support for those with mental health needs who are in contact with, or end up in, the criminal justice system.
Latest news and published research on mental health and its impact on communities can be accessed here.
Lambeth Black Caribbean Insight Report
The Lambeth Black Caribbean Insight report outlines the findings of research undertaken to gain a better understanding of the Black Caribbean community in Lambeth.
It only can take several several hours as well as your personal stem cells are utilized. I commenced looking into and located Dr. Brandt, a local physician in Edwards, who was undertaking this really treatment. I scheduled an appointment and introduced him all my x-rays and stories from prior consults. Dr. Brandt felt he could support without needing to have my ankle fused. I'd the stem cell injection completed and now I Virtually wander regular yet again and Dwell without the significant agony.
Our present-day focus will be the therapeutic potential of stem cells in bone regeneration subsequent injury from radiation or trauma.
Rather, these cells are gathered from your amniotic start fluid that will if not be discarded adhering to childbirth. So there isn't a fetal tissue, and so, no ethical considerations.
“More than happy with the outcome on my stem cell injections, I've extremely recomended Dr. Brandt to Other individuals I know who'd benifit from his treatments”*
My research software concentrates on the position of cells having an epithelial progenitor phenotype in breast cancer ailment progression, therapy resistance and tumor recurrence.
“I've experienced several stem cell injections and my knee agony has enhanced constantly in excess of eighteen months.
“The stem cell treatment I had for my shoulder from Dr Brandt at Prosper significantly exceeded my expectations. Prior to the treatment I could barely do only one press-up and swimming even breaststroke was challenging.
Our investigation focuses on the obesity through pregnancy which may boost being overweight danger for the kid afterwards in life. We realize that things related to mom’s weight problems, which include insulin resistance and inflammation could all Engage in a task in her little one’s future danger for being overweight, but we have no idea how this occurs. We hypothesize that in utero exposures, such as inflammation, could alter the child’s DNA composition and function. In order to address this hypothesis, we use stem cells cultured from umbilical cord tissue of babies born to obese or ordinary fat moms.
My operate concentrates on mechanisms that drive the differentiation of stem cells or progenitors to activate B cell lineage-precise courses and undertake commitment.
Today we welcomed Sarah Sasse, a molecular biologist at Nationwide Jewish Well being, who works by using cutting-edge genomics-dependent tools to be familiar with transcriptional regulation by glucocorticoids in wholesome and diseased airways.
The method is natural and can take place in every tissue within my latest blog post our bodies. Stem cell fix is the primary healing look at these guys mechanism present in the human body. In tissues, which include knee joint cartilage as well as the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), there is limited blood offer.
Exploration in my laboratory is targeted at pinpointing molecular mechanisms that control stem cells on the hair follicle. These stem cells are to blame for building your complete hair follicle, and in the end the hair shaft.
For click here to find out more these experiments, we use each the zebrafish and mouse types Together with the hope to know how this process goes Incorrect throughout beginning defects and disorder.
“After i was advised by an orthopedic medical doctor I needed double knee replacement I chose stem cell therapy as an alternative. Stem cell therapy has helped me get by my days with no suffering I had been enduring and enjoy the functions I was not able to as a result of pain.“*
When asking the concern what's Hypothyroidism And Symptoms Of Hyperthyroidism , we should glimpse initially on the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is often a butterfly formed gland Situated at The bottom with the neck. it is actually produced up of two lobes that wrap themselves around the trachea or windpipe. The thyroid gland is a component with the endocrine process and releases the thyroid hormones thyroxine and triiodothyronine.
precisely what is Hypothyroidism And Symptoms Of Hyperthyroidism is an issue that may be answered by 1st checking out the triggers and advancement of hypothyroidism. The signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism are introduced on once the gland slows or completely ceases the production of thyroid hormones. there are lots of things that could potentially cause this to happen:
Autoimmune disease: When posing the concern what exactly is hypothyroidism in your doctor, they should want to have a look at performing assessments to determine autoimmune disease. Autoimmune sickness can in some cases induce Your system to oversight thyroid cells for invading cells, leading to Your entire body's immune process to assault. In turn, The body will never create enough thyroid hormone.
Congenital hypothyroidism: currently being born Together with the ailment of hypothyroidism is another way to reply the query, precisely what is hypothyroidism. Some infants could be born without having a thyroid gland, or they will be born with just a partial gland.
Surgical removal: Surgical removing of all or A part of the thyroid gland is another answer towards the query, exactly what is hypothyroidism.
Unbalanced iodine degrees: Yet another answer on the question, what's hypothyroidism, is unbalanced amounts of iodine. Having an excessive amount, or far too small iodine will cause One's body's thyroid ranges to fluctuate.
drugs: having specified remedies can result in the human body's thyroid ranges to rise and tumble. This might quite properly be A further reply on the issue, exactly what is hypothyroidism.
Pituitary hurt: one particular aspect your physician might take a look at when posing the issue, exactly what is hypothyroidism, is if the pituitary gland is operating the right way. Your pituitary gland acts to be a information Middle, and it sends messages to the thyroid gland. Should the pituitary gland malfunctions it will eventually induce hypothyroidism.
a single important component when asking, what exactly is hypothyroidism, is diagnostics. The diagnosis of hypothyroidism will typically include a lot of exams. These checks will include blood attracts, MRI and CT imaging exams, and aspiration of thyroid cells. After jogging the mandatory exams, your health care provider should be able to diagnose and address your hypothyroidism.
After analysis, your physician will sit back along with you and talk about your treatment method options. there are numerous treatment method possibilities available, and they'll each be dependent of varied factors. Most likely, you'll be offered thyroxine. Thyroxine is amongst the hormones which can be made by the thyroid gland, and having this tends to help degree out your thyroid concentrations.
Doe v. BHC Fairfax Hospital, Inc. | Civil Rights Litigation Clearinghouse
Case Name Doe v. BHC Fairfax Hospital, Inc. DR-WA-0004
Docket / Court 2:19-cv-00635-TSZ ( W.D. Wash. )
On April 30, 2019, an anonymous plaintiff filed a civil suit against Fairfax Behavior Health ("Fairfax") under Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act and state statutes. Seven additional anonymous plaintiffs joined this suit via amended complaints, all represented by Disability Rights ... read more >
On April 30, 2019, an anonymous plaintiff filed a civil suit against Fairfax Behavior Health ("Fairfax") under Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act and state statutes. Seven additional anonymous plaintiffs joined this suit via amended complaints, all represented by Disability Rights Washington, a public interest organization, and private counsel. They filed suit in the Western District of Washington seeking damages for pain and suffering, compensatory and punitive damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys' fees.
The plaintiffs were individuals with unspecified mental illnesses admitted to Fairfax for treatment. They alleged that Fairfax has an indiscriminate policy of requiring all adult and teen patients to submit to random strip and cavity searches, a policy not shared by any other psychiatric hospital in Washington State. This process was also video recorded by Fairfax in violation of patients' privacy. Specifically, the plaintiffs alleged that this practice is substantially motivated by discriminatory animus towards people with serious mental health conditions requiring inpatient treatment, inhibiting those patients' ability to receive the treatment they need.
The plaintiffs sought to bring a class action on behalf of all persons who were admitted to Fairfax between April 30, 2016 and the date of class certification. The court denied class certification in an order from Judge Thomas S. Zilly dated August 10, 2020. 2020 WL 4584228. Certification was denied because the court found that the allegedly common questions among the class were unrelated to the ADA and state law claims and because the class was defined too broadly.
Sara Denbo - 09/30/2020
Defendant(s) Fairfax Behavioral Health
Plaintiff Description Mental health patients who were admitted to Fairfax for mental illness who were subjected to humiliating and traumatizing baseless strip- and cavity-searches. They sought to bring a class action on behalf of all persons admitted to BHC Fairfax Hospital between April 20, 2016 to present
Added on: June 27, 2014
Women with chronic physical illnesses are more likely to use mental health services than men with similar illnesses; they also seek out mental health services six months earlier than those same men, according to new research from medical sociologist Flora Matheson. read more
Kelly Metcalfe selected as part of pan-Canadian cancer research project
Added on: June 26, 2014
Approximately 4% of breast cancers in Canada occur in women less than 40 years old. The known risk-factors for the onset of breast cancer in these women are few, and can only account for a very small proportion of cases. The Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation (CBCF) in partnership with the Canadian Institutes of Health Research… More
Diabetes research: how your doctor is paid affects your care
Added on: June 6, 2014
From 2006 to 2008, nearly 75 per cent of Ontarians with diabetes did not receive all of the tests recommended to properly monitor their disease – and how their doctor was paid was one of the factors determining the care they received. read more
What's your hurry? How fast food may fuel impatience
Added on: June 3, 2014
Want to be able to smell the roses? You might consider buying into a neighbourhood where there are more sit-down restaurants than fast-food outlets, suggests a new paper from the University of Toronto's Rotman School of Management. read more
From cancer treatments to urban international relations
U of T-Brazil partnership adds five new research projects By Paul Fraumeni The innovative partnership between the University of Toronto and the Universidade de Sao Paulo (USP) in Brazil has added five newly awarded projects to its roster – four involving cancer research and one on how urban regions are becoming involved in international relations.… More
Added on: May 23, 2014
Connaught New Researcher recipient Jennifer Carlson exploring a major crime problem Paul Fraumeni The tunnel and bridge that connect Windsor, Ontario and Detroit, Michigan comprise the busiest border crossing in North America. Millions of people travel between the US and Canada through this corridor for a multitude of reasons. In fact, the crossing is an… More
"Sperm Olympics" helping couples get pregnant faster: U of T startup QSperm
In vitro fertility treatments can be intensely emotional and medically invasive, not to mention expensive. But technical developments from a research group at the University of Toronto may soon be able to shorten the journey to pregnancy – and that potential has piqued interest from international investors. read more
Pregnancy tied to risk of car crash
Pregnant women worry about everything from airplane travel and hot tubs to cold cuts and rollercoaster rides, but there's a far more dangerous threat to the health of the unborn child –one that has flown almost completely under the radar until now. read more
Four percent of Canadians aged 12 to 14 years old had consumed five or more drinks on at least one occasion in the preceding year, according to a new study from the University of Toronto. The study was published this week in the journal ISRN Public Health. read more
Racial bias "entrenched" in Canadian advertising
Added on: May 5, 2014
The first systematic study of Canadian television commercials, conducted by sociologists Shyon Baumann and Loretta Ho from the University of Toronto Mississauga, shows that despite the country's multicultural make-up, visible minorities are underrepresented and misrepresented in TV advertising. read more
RAC2 | Cancer Genetics Web
Gene: RAC2; Rac family small GTPase 2
Aliases: Gx, EN-7, HSPC022, p21-Rac2
Summary: This gene encodes a member of the Ras superfamily of small guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing proteins. The encoded protein localizes to the plasma membrane, where it regulates diverse processes, such as secretion, phagocytosis, and cell polarization. Activity of this protein is also involved in the generation of reactive oxygen species. Mutations in this gene are associated with neutrophil immunodeficiency syndrome. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]
Protein: ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 2
RAC2 is implicated in:
- regulation of respiratory burst
RAC2 is involved in:
Brain Tumours, Childhood RAC2 and Brain Tumours View Publications 4
Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia RAC2 and Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia View Publications 3
Breast Cancer RAC2 and Breast Cancer View Publications 4
Liver Cancer RAC2 and Liver Cancer View Publications 3
Ovarian Cancer RAC2 and Ovarian Cancer View Publications 2
Latest Publications: RAC2 (cancer-related)
Shi Z, Zhou H, Pan B, et al.
Exploring the key genes and pathways of osteosarcoma with pulmonary metastasis using a gene expression microarray.
Mol Med Rep. 2017; 16(5):7423-7431 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
Osteosarcoma is a common and highly malignant tumour in children and teenagers that is characterized by drug resistance and high metastatic potential. Patients often develop pulmonary metastasis and have a low survival rate. However, the mechanistic basis for pulmonary metastasis remains unclear. To identify key gene and pathways associated with pulmonary metastasis of osteosarcoma, the authors downloaded the gene expression dataset GSE85537 and obtained the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by analyzing high‑throughput gene expression in primary tumours and lung metastases. Subsequently, the authors performed gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway (KEGG) enrichment analyses and a protein‑protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed and analyzed by Cytoscape software. In total, 2,493 genes were identified as DEGs. Of these, 485 genes (19.45%) were upregulated, and the remaining 2,008 genes (80.55%) were downregulated. The authors identified the predominant GO categories and KEGG pathways that were significantly over‑represented in the metastatic OS samples compared with the non‑metastatic OS samples. A PPI network was constructed, and the results indicated that ALB, EGFR, INS, IL6, CDH1, FYN, ERBB2, IL8, CXCL12 and RAC2 were the top 10 core genes. The enrichment analyses of the genes involved in the top three significant modules demonstrated that the DEGs were principally related to neuroactive ligand‑receptor interaction, the Rap1 signaling pathway, and protein digestion and absorption. Together, these data elucidated the molecular mechanisms of OS patients with pulmonary metastasis and provide potential therapeutic targets. However, further experimental studies are needed to confirm these results.
Related: Bone Cancers Osteosarcoma Signal Transduction EGFR
Nolte E, Wach S, Silva IT, et al.
Oncotarget. 2017; 8(7):11676-11691 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
Related: Kidney Cancer MicroRNAs Signal Transduction BIRC5
Chen G, Wang Y, Wang L, Xu W
Identifying prognostic biomarkers based on aberrant DNA methylation in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma.
Oncotarget. 2017; 8(3):5268-5280 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
Nicoś M, Jarosz B, Krawczyk P, et al.
Brain Pathol. 2018; 28(1):77-86 [PubMed] Related Publications
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene rearrangement was reported in 3%-7% of primary non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and its presence is commonly associated with adenocarcinoma (AD) type and non-smoking history. ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as crizotinib, alectinib and ceritinib showed efficiency in patients with primary NSCLC harboring ALK gene rearrangement. Moreover, response to ALK TKIs was observed in central nervous system (CNS) metastatic lesions of NSCLC. However, there are no reports concerning the frequency of ALK rearrangement in CNS metastases. We assessed the frequency of ALK abnormalities in 145 formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue samples from CNS metastases of NSCLC using immunohistochemical (IHC) automated staining (BenchMark GX, Ventana, USA) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique (Abbot Molecular, USA). The studied group was heterogeneous in terms of histopathology and smoking status. ALK abnormalities were detected in 4.8% (7/145) of CNS metastases. ALK abnormalities were observed in six AD (7.5%; 6/80) and in single patients with adenosuqamous lung carcinoma. Analysis of clinical and demographic factors indicated that expression of abnormal ALK was significantly more frequently observed (P = 0.0002; χ
Related: ALK Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cancer Screening and Early Detection FISH Lung Cancer
Frost HR, Shen L, Saykin AJ, et al.
Genet Epidemiol. 2016; 40(7):544-557 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
Walliser C, Hermkes E, Schade A, et al.
J Biol Chem. 2016; 291(42):22136-22148 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
Mutations in the gene encoding phospholipase C-γ
Fokkelman M, Balcıoğlu HE, Klip JE, et al.
Sci Rep. 2016; 6:31707 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
Cancer cells migrate from the primary tumour into surrounding tissue in order to form metastasis. Cell migration is a highly complex process, which requires continuous remodelling and re-organization of the cytoskeleton and cell-matrix adhesions. Here, we aimed to identify genes controlling aspects of tumour cell migration, including the dynamic organization of cell-matrix adhesions and cellular traction forces. In a siRNA screen targeting most cell adhesion-related genes we identified 200+ genes that regulate size and/or dynamics of cell-matrix adhesions in MCF7 breast cancer cells. In a subsequent secondary screen, the 64 most effective genes were evaluated for growth factor-induced cell migration and validated by tertiary RNAi pool deconvolution experiments. Four validated hits showed significantly enlarged adhesions accompanied by reduced cell migration upon siRNA-mediated knockdown. Furthermore, loss of PPP1R12B, HIPK3 or RAC2 caused cells to exert higher traction forces, as determined by traction force microscopy with elastomeric micropillar post arrays, and led to considerably reduced force turnover. Altogether, we identified genes that co-regulate cell-matrix adhesion dynamics and traction force turnover, thereby modulating overall motility behaviour.
Zhang JY, Weng MZ, Song FB, et al.
Int J Oncol. 2016; 48(4):1590-8 [PubMed] Related Publications
Nat Genet. 2015; 47(11):1334-40 [PubMed] Related Publications
Fu J, Khaybullin R, Zhang Y, et al.
BMC Cancer. 2015; 15:473 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
Related: Breast Cancer MMP11
Manukjan G, Ripperger T, Santer L, et al.
Exp Hematol. 2015; 43(10):880-90 [PubMed] Related Publications
In Philadelphia-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), imatinib resistance frequently emerges because of point mutations in the ABL1 kinase domain, but may also be the consequence of uncontrolled upstream signaling. Recently, the heteromeric transcription factor GA-binding protein (GABP) was found to promote CML-like myeloproliferative disease in mice. In a cohort of 70 CML patients, we found that expression of the GABP α subunit (GABPα) is positively correlated to the BCR-ABL1/ABL1 ratio. Moreover, significantly higher GABPα expression was detected in blast crisis than in chronic phase CML after performing data mining on 91 CML patients. In functional studies, imatinib sensitivity is enhanced after GABPα knockdown in tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI)-sensitive K-562, as well as by overexpression of a deletion mutant in TKI-resistant NALM-1 cells. Moreover, in K-562 cells, GABP-dependent expression variations of PRKD2 and RAC2, relevant signaling mediators in CML, were observed. Notably, protein kinase D2 (Prkd2) was reported to be a GABP target gene in mice. In line with this, we detected a positive correlation between GABPA and PRKD2 expression in primary human CML, indicating that the effects of GABP are mediated by PRKD2. These findings illustrate an important role for GABP in disease development and imatinib sensitivity in human CML.
Vulsteke C, Pfeil AM, Maggen C, et al.
Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2015; 152(1):67-76 [PubMed] Related Publications
Lee HJ, Lee JJ, Song IH, et al.
Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2015; 151(3):619-27 [PubMed] Related Publications
Reichwagen A, Ziepert M, Kreuz M, et al.
Pharmacogenomics. 2015; 16(4):361-72 [PubMed] Related Publications
AIM: To identify gene variants responsible for anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
PATIENTS & METHODS: Polymorphisms of the NADPH oxidase subunits and of the anthracycline transporters ABCC1, ABCC2 and SLC28A3 were genotyped in elderly patients (61-80 years) treated for aggressive CD20(+) B-cell lymphomas with CHOP-14 with or without rituximab and followed up for 3 years.
RESULTS: The accumulation of RAC2 subunit genotypes TA/AA among cases was statistically significant upon adjustment for gender, age and doxorubicin dose in a multivariate logistic regression analysis (OR: 2.3, p = 0.028; univariate: OR: 1.8, p = 0.077). RAC2 and CYBA genotypes were significantly associated with anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity in a meta-analysis of this and a similar previous study.
CONCLUSION: Our results support the theory that NADPH oxidase is involved in anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. Original submitted 9 July 2014; Revision submitted 19 December 2014.
Zu M, Xu X, Zhou WX, et al.
Whole genome expression profiling of gastric high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia with or without cancer.
Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2015; 37(1):23-9 [PubMed] Related Publications
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the whole genome expression profiles between gastric high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (HGIN) tissues with cancer and HGIN tissues without cancer.
METHODS: Gastric specimens from an upper magnifying chromoendoscopic targeted biopsy were collected at Peking Union Medical College Hospital from March 2010 to May 2013. Each of the forceps biopsies from the 21 patients was HGIN,but there were 10 HGIN and 11 HGIN with cancer after the endoscopic submucosal dissection. The whole genome expression profiling was performed on 10 HGIN samples and 11 HGIN with cancer samples using Agilent 4 × 44K Whole Human Genome microarrays. Differentially expressed genes between different types of lesions were identified using an unpaired t-test and corrected with the Benjamini and Hochberg false discovery rate algorithm. A gene ontology(GO)enrichment analysis was performed using the GeneSpring software GX 12.6.
RESULTS: The gene expression patterns were different between HGIN tissues with cancer and HGIN tissues without cancer. There were 470 significantly differentially expressed transcripts between them (P<0.05,Fold Change>2), with 180 up-regulated genes and 290 down-regulated genes in HGIN tissues with cancer. A GO enrichment analysis demonstrated that the most striking over-expressed transcripts in HGIN with cancer were in the category of triglyceride biosynthetic process,acylglycerol biosynthetic process,neutral lipid biosynthetic process,glycerol ether metabolic process,organic ether metabolic process,and glycerolipid metabolic process.
CONCLUSION: The change of lipid metabolism may contribute to the pathogenesis of gastric cancer at an early stage.
Xu X, Feng L, Liu Y, et al.
Differential gene expression profiling of gastric intraepithelial neoplasia and early-stage adenocarcinoma.
World J Gastroenterol. 2014; 20(47):17883-93 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
RESULTS: The gene expression patterns of LGIN and HGIN tissues were distinct. There were 2521 significantly differentially expressed transcripts in HGIN, with 951 upregulated and 1570 downregulated. A GO enrichment analysis demonstrated that the most striking overexpressed transcripts in HGIN compared with LGIN were in the category of metabolism, defense response, and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) cascade. While the vast majority of transcripts had barely altered expression in HGIN and EGC tissues, only 38 transcripts were upregulated in EGC. A GO enrichment analysis revealed that the alterations of the immune response were most prominent in the progression from HGIN to EGC. It is worth noting that, compared with LGIN, 289 transcripts were expressed at higher levels both in HGIN and EGC. A characteristic gene, G0/G1 switch 2 (G0S2) was one of the 289 transcripts and related to metabolism, the immune response, and the NF-κB cascade, and its expression was validated in independent samples through real-time TaqMan® PCR and immunohistochemical staining. In real-time PCR analysis, the expression of G0S2 was elevated both in HGIN and EGC compared with that in LGIN (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001, respectively). In IHC analysis, G0S2 immunoreactivity was detected in the cytoplasmic of neoplastic cells, but was undetectable in chronic gastritis cells. The G0S2 expression in HGIN was higher than that of LGIN (P = 0.012, χ (2) = 6.28) and EGC (P = 0.008, χ (2) = 6.94).
Suryawanshi S, Huang X, Elishaev E, et al.
Clin Cancer Res. 2014; 20(23):6163-74 [PubMed] Free Access to Full Article Related Publications
CONCLUSIONS: These findings reveal new characteristics of inflammation in precursor lesions and point to previously unknown roles of complement in endometriosis and EAOC.
Wan YJ, Yang Y, Leng QL, et al.
Vav1 increases Bcl-2 expression by selective activation of Rac2-Akt in leukemia T cells.
Cell Signal. 2014; 26(10):2202-9 [PubMed] Related Publications
Vav proteins are guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that activate a group of small G proteins (GTPases). Vav1 is predominantly expressed in hematopoietic cells, whereas Vav2 and Vav3 are ubiquitously distributed in almost all human tissues. All three Vav proteins contain conserved structural motifs and associate with a variety of cellular activities including proliferation, migration, and survival. Previous observation with Jurkat leukemia T cells showed that Vav1 possessed anti-apoptotic activity by enhancing Bcl-2 transcription. However the mechanism has not been unveiled. Here, we explored the effectors of Vav1 in promoting Bcl-2 expression in Jurkat cells and revealed that Rac2-Akt was specifically evoked by the expression of Vav1, but not Vav2 or Vav3. Although all three Vav isoforms existed in Jurkat cells, Rac2 was distinguishably activated by Vav1 and that led to enhanced Bcl-2 expression and cell survival. Akt was modulated downstream of Vav1-Rac2, and the activation of Akt was indispensable in the enhanced transcription of Bcl-2. Intriguingly, neither Vav2 nor Vav3 was able to activate Rac2-Akt pathway as determined by gene silencing approach. Our data illustrated a unique role of Vav1 in T leukemia survival by selectively triggering Rac2-Akt axis and elevating the expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2.
Related: Apoptosis Leukemia AKT1 VAV1
López-Guerra M, Xargay-Torrent S, Rosich L, et al.
Leukemia. 2015; 29(1):96-106 [PubMed] Related Publications
Related: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) CLL - Molecular Biology Angiogenesis and Cancer NOTCH1 Fludarabine
Zwaenepoel K, Van Dongen A, Lambin S, et al.
Histopathology. 2014; 65(4):539-48 [PubMed] Related Publications
AIM: Testing for ALK rearrangements in advanced, non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancers that are wild-type for activating EGFR mutation has become standard care. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization is considered the gold standard for this evaluation. Pre-screening with immunohistochemistry has been suggested, to reduce testing costs and to make testing more widely available. By analysing the sensitivity and specificity of different ALK immunohistochemical assays, we aimed to identify the most reliable assay to detect ALK rearrangement.
METHODS AND RESULTS: ALK screening performed by FISH analysis was compared with three different immunohistochemical assays, in which two ALK antibody clones (5A4 and D5F3) were used on two detection platforms (Dako AutostainerLink 48 and Ventana Benchmark GX). Data from 30 ALK FISH-positive cases show that the sensitivity of the immunohistochemical assays varies from 93.3% to 96.6%. Head-to-head comparison of the 5A4 and D5F3 ALK antibody clones demonstrates similar staining potency. In general, homogeneous, intermediate to strong staining of the ALK-positive samples was obtained.
CONCLUSIONS: ALK immunohistochemistry can be considered as a pre-screen method if one accepts a sensitivity of 93.3-96.6%. Because ALK immunohistochemical staining needs to be performed close to the detection limit of the assay, vigilant quality control monitoring is required to guarantee trustworthy results.
Cite this page: Cotterill SJ. RAC2, Cancer Genetics Web: http://www.cancer-genetics.org/RAC2.htm Accessed:
Nurse fired after allegedly inducing labour without consent | CBC News
Nurse fired after allegedly inducing labour without consent | CBC News Loaded
A nurse in Moncton was fired after allegations labour was induced without consent, Horizon Health confirmed Saturday.
RCMP are investigating but no arrest has been made
Sarah Morin · CBC News · Posted: Mar 30, 2019 1:27 PM AT | Last Updated: March 30, 2019
The Horizon Health Network, which includes the Moncton Hospital, is the second largest health authority in Atlantic Canada. It includes 12 hospitals, has 13,000 employees and an annual budget of $1.2 billion. (CBC)
A nurse in Moncton was fired after allegations that labour was induced without consent, Horizon Health Network confirmed Saturday.
A press release from Horizon Health said it fired the labour and delivery nurse after an internal investigation revealed "strong evidence" the nurse administered Oxytocin, which caused two patients to require an urgent caesarean section. Horizon said it took immediate action to launch an investigation.
Oxytocin is a drug that causes contractions and is used to induce labour, speed up labour and stop bleeding following labour. If it's not administered properly, contractions can become too strong.
Ken Gillespie, an obstetrician at the hospital, encourages patients to reach out to Horizon if they have any questions about their care.
The health authority said the two affected patients and their families have been contacted. Hospital staff were informed of the situation March 27.
"Our investigation at this point has identified these two patients and these two patients alone," said Ken Gillespie, an obstetrician and chief of staff of Moncton Hospital, when asked if there could be more than two patients affected.
Gillespie said patients should reach out to Horizon if they have questions about their care.
"On behalf of Horizon we would like to apologize to the patients and families affected by the actions of our former employee," the press release said.
Horizon Health Network issued this letter regarding the firing. (CBC)
The press release also said the two mothers and their babies are "safe and doing well."
Horizon said it will not be commenting any further at this time.
RCMP said they are investigating an incident at the request of Horizon Health. They say no arrest has been made.
