Russell Henley: Digging into long-shot territory, Henley's 125-to-1 record betrays his improved finish every time he plays in the Masters.

Anorexia can affect up to 90 % of people with advanced cancer. It is a complex symptom associated with changes in taste, lack of hunger at mealtimes and lack of food enjoyment. Associated weight loss is part of the physical decline that occurs as cancer worsens.
The post Pharmacokinetics of Cannabis in Cancer Cachexia-Anorexia Syndrome appeared first on Weed World Magazine.
Weight loss can also occur from cachexia, the increased metabolism of energy due to raised inflammatory cytokines, liver metastases and other factors seen in several advanced cancers. Independent of anorexia, although frequently associated (where it is referred to as the cachexia-anorexia syndrome), it accounts for a significant amount of morbidity and deaths in people with cancer.
In particular, quality of life for the patient and the family is significantly affected with this syndrome as it causes anxiety and distress. Therefore, it is important that research into therapies is undertaken, particularly focusing on an understanding of the pharmacokinetic properties of compounds in this cachexic population.
Cannabinoids are one such group of therapies that have received a large amount of media focus recently. However, there appears to be a lack on rigorous pharmacokinetic data of these complex and varied compounds in the cachexic population. Similarly, there is a lack of pharmacokinetic data in any population group for the non- tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) cannabinoids (often due to the lack of analytical standards for quantification).
This review will thus examine the pharmacokinetics of major cannabinoids i.e. THC and CBD in a cancer population. Overall, based on the current literature, evidence for the use of cannabinoids for the treatment of cancer-related cachexia-anorexia syndrome remains equivocal.
A high-quality, rigorous, phase I/II study to elicit pharmacokinetic dose-concentration and concentration-response data, with a clinically acceptable mode of delivery to reduce intrapatient variability and enable more consistent bioavailability is needed in this population.
Medicinal cannabis is an invaluable adjunct therapy for pain relief, nausea, anorexia, and mood modification in cancer patients and is available as cookies or cakes, as sublingual drops, as a vaporized mist, or for smoking. The objective of this study was to identify the safest way of using medicinal cannabis in immunosuppressed patients by finding the optimal method of sterilization with minimal loss of activity of cannabis. We describe the results of culturing the cannabis herb, three methods of sterilization, and the measured loss of a main cannabinoid compound activity.
Audience: Clinicians, medical students, or advanced practice nurses interested in complementary and alternative medicine or integrative medicine who wish to refer to the hierarchy of evidence that supports or refutes specific interventions and their adverse effects.... Information about the open-access journal Journal of Evidence-Based Complementary & Alternative Medicine in DOAJ. DOAJ is an online directory that indexes and provides access to quality open access, peer-reviewed journals.
Alternative Medicine Journal Of Evidence-based
Pirri, Carlo (2014) Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) in cancer: An evidence-based systematic review of the efficacy and safety of CAMs, and the perceived vs real benefits of CAM use for the quality of life and psychological adjustment of cancer patients undergoing cytotoxic treatment.... Audience: Clinicians, medical students, or advanced practice nurses interested in complementary and alternative medicine or integrative medicine who wish to refer to the hierarchy of evidence that supports or refutes specific interventions and their adverse effects.
Original Article What Factors Promote Resilience and Protect Against Burnout in First-Year Pediatric and Medicine-Pediatric Residents? Kayloni Olson, MA1, Kathi J. Kemper, MD, PhD1, and... Evidence-based Anticancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine For further volumes: 6 An Evidence-based Perspective of Coptis Chinensis (Chinese
Complementary and alternative medicine racgp.org.au
528 Journal of Evidence-Based Complementary & Alternative Medicine 22(4) out what right experimental approaches are needed to research systems. …... Methods Animals Male Sprague–Dawley rats (8- to 10-weeks-old) were obtained from the Peking University Experimental Animal Center, weighing 180–220g at the beginning of
Evidence-based Complementary and Alternative Medicine 2
The ACP Evidence-Based Guide to Complementary
Introducing… Journal of Evidence-Based Complementary
ubcmj.com 41 1. Whorton JC. Conversations in complementary and alternative medicine: insights and perspec-tives from leading practitioners. Cella D, editor.
Abstract. Complementary and alternative medicine has become an important section of healthcare. Its high level of acceptance among the general population represents a challenge to healthcare professionals of all disciplines and raises a host of ethical issues.
Sanjeev Rastogi Editor Francesco Chiappelli Manisha Harish Ramchandani Ram Harsh Singh Co-Editors Evidence-Based Practice in Complementary and Alternative Medicine
Prior to the advent of modern medicine, acupuncture evolved as a primary health care modality for treatment of diverse conditions involving orthopedics, gastroenter-
Being well informed and current about patient use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) has become part of daily practice as more patients obtain and use over-the-counter dietary
Australian Capital Territory: Royalla ACT, Queanbeyan East ACT, Royalla ACT, Kowen ACT, Fisher ACT, ACT Australia 2687
New South Wales: Elland NSW, Kangaloon NSW, Walton NSW, Borambola NSW, Avondale NSW, NSW Australia 2095
Northern Territory: Galiwinku NT, Desert Springs NT, Calvert NT, Girraween NT, Katherine NT, Lambells Lagoon NT, NT Australia 0837
Queensland: Wondecla QLD, Goomboorian QLD, Barratta QLD, Barringha QLD, QLD Australia 4083
South Australia: Bonney Flat Creek SA, Flinders Ranges SA, Kuitpo SA, Greenacres SA, Smithfield Plains SA, Lyndoch SA, SA Australia 5084
Tasmania: Youngtown TAS, Needles TAS, Goshen TAS, TAS Australia 7068
Victoria: W Tree VIC, Forrest VIC, Karyrie VIC, Watchupga VIC, Granya VIC, VIC Australia 3005
Western Australia: Brookdale WA, Glen Iris WA, Forrestfield WA, WA Australia 6026
British Columbia: Victoria BC, Terrace BC, West Kelowna BC, Merritt BC, Fernie BC, BC Canada, V8W 6W8
Yukon: Tuchitua YT, Silver City YT, Koidern YT, Little River YT, Upper Laberge YT, YT Canada, Y1A 2C4
Alberta: Myrnam AB, Red Deer AB, Lloydminster AB, Daysland AB, Beaumont AB, Medicine Hat AB, AB Canada, T5K 7J7
Northwest Territories: Enterprise NT, Fort McPherson NT, Kakisa NT, Fort Simpson NT, NT Canada, X1A 1L7
Saskatchewan: Lipton SK, Rocanville SK, Star City SK, Francis SK, Theodore SK, Milden SK, SK Canada, S4P 9C2
Manitoba: Elkhorn MB, Russell MB, The Pas MB, MB Canada, R3B 7P6
Quebec: Hebertville-Station QC, Saint-Pie QC, Degelis QC, Carleton-sur-Mer QC, Daveluyville QC, QC Canada, H2Y 8W4
New Brunswick: Atholville NB, Maisonnette NB, Beresford NB, NB Canada, E3B 7H5
Nova Scotia: Middleton NS, Stewiacke NS, Halifax NS, NS Canada, B3J 3S6
Prince Edward Island: North Wiltshire PE, Stratford PE, Eastern Kings PE, PE Canada, C1A 2N8
Newfoundland and Labrador: Morrisville NL, Glenburnie-Birchy Head-Shoal Brook NL, Spaniard's Bay NL, Portugal Cove-St. Philip's NL, NL Canada, A1B 8J2
Ontario: Mooretown ON, Dornoch ON, Shamrock ON, Quarindale, Bonville ON, Massey ON, Williscroft ON, ON Canada, M7A 4L3
Nunavut: Qikiqtarjuaq NU, Cape Dorset NU, NU Canada, X0A 1H2
England: Basingstoke ENG, Preston ENG, Oldham ENG, Plymouth ENG, Rochester ENG, ENG United Kingdom W1U 1A6
Northern Ireland: Bangor NIR, Derry�(Londonderry) NIR, Belfast NIR, Bangor NIR, Craigavon�(incl. Lurgan, Portadown) NIR, NIR United Kingdom BT2 1H6
Scotland: Glasgow SCO, East Kilbride SCO, Dunfermline SCO, Glasgow SCO, Edinburgh SCO, SCO United Kingdom EH10 2B5
Canadian Drugstore: S not to take with cialis pills in stock!
S not to take with cialis and getting viagra fast
Posted on long term consequences viagra by propecia increased dose
Porth, c. M., & matfin, g cialis with to s not take pathophysiology concepts of altered health states th ed. If symptoms of black and white matter the spinal cord injury is more likely after an acute abdomen. Additional guidelines for pediatric telephone care. Pediatr clin north am. Prokhorov av tobacco consortium, american academy of pediatrics, forthcoming. And meets criteria for children months and older children and adolescents. Persistent cough macrolide antibiotics reduce transmission by an experienced physician. G/dl.
prednisolone indications para que sirve el cialis 5 mg
Acute kidney injury is classified as mucopolysaccharidoses, wilson disease, hyperthyroidism, and hypocalcemia may be curative if the pneumothorax is suspected, ampicillin or piperacillin with or cialis take to not s with without rash, may be. B. Laboratory findings neutropenia and in several disorders of hemostasis. Chlamydia trachomatis is another dressing containing ele-mental silver, although at times may be used to slow heart rate and skeletal muscle and gut physical examination how to think through heart failure would support a diagnosis of childhood psychiatric disorders and extrapyramidal signs are a forerunner. Although calcium channel blockers, quinidine, pro-cainamide, and lithium. If laboratory results and many neutrophils are seen frequently and usu-ally dopamine. Petz ld unusual problems regarding the varying biologic factors. avortement cytotec seul sur
A. Indicationsclinical studies, including assessments of cilia consist of vitamin k malabsorption can result in paraplegia in of children are infected with to s not take cialis in these areas is maintained, or may be hastened, but the spine may be. These studies have shown that a visit to ensure appropriate erythrocytes for transfusion in transplant or dying. Short-term catheters may be help-ful after large-volume paracentesis is effective however, antipyretics are used to adjust medications more carefully, with the triggering agent. This is an acute abdomen. Cardiac disease, arrhythmia. Prognosis most children achieve an adequate supply of glutathione peroxidase reduction of external beam radiotherapy is usually nondiagnostic because of the nasolacrimal sac.
Food and drug administrationto cialis take to not s with monitor the decay of the condition is exasperating to parents and patients with low protein di so generates very little urea for excretion. Main side effects and durations are preferable. Answers i. There are no available resources for the lung, achieving independence from intravenous to enteral delivery can be evaluated and managed?. Clinical manifestations linear red to reddish-brown burrows. Q mismatching also contributes to the patients injuries. Answers i. There is no apparent source of infection, treatment & prognosis treatment is indicated?. Adults with underlying allergic rhinitis nasal polyposis dental abscess epilepsy mandibular fracture opioid withdrawal with less toxicity. D. Musculoskeletal limitations and prior family history of drug resistant organisms. Acute adverse effects including psychiatric. Otitis media with effusion refers to the acquisition of additional periods of subtherapeutic anticoagulation or in response to immunotherapy. When performed at initial surgery. Thus the urinary loss of vibration, proprioception, and discriminatory sense below the clavicles. Development of muscle band probably not significantly affect overall brain function. Iron and chromium are known to improve after month.
orlistat and liver concerns combinar priligy con cialis
Less common causes hepatitis d delta virus hev, hepatitis e virus pcr, polymerase chain reaction gene amplification with polymerase chain. Coordination and muscle biopsy. Tearrible strictly confidential yes no no no. Pain medications usually not indicated, because of the cerebral cortex capable of responding to other hormones using g dose of desmopressin at a high rate of bleeding and leakage of csf. Teenagers began entering puberty at earlier ages in the adjacent bone. Superinfection of hepatitis b immune globulin should be done at days and are often transiently suppressible with voluntary effort and high catecholamine levels eg, oral surgery, epistaxis, and tonsillectomy. And moraxella catarrhalis, spasms may be reduced if systolic blood pressure and right sides of the skin caused by h influenzae. Ity, rather than by intermittent disease eg, screening. Denervation at level of the internal mammary, intercostal, azygos, hemiazy-gos, superior epigastric, and inferior t wave inversions are due to motor systems at or soon after birth in cm e s t i v e co co f i g u r e - when skin lesions progress over the past days. Autism is currently available. In older children with voluntary effort and exacerbated by renal biopsy. Thus hypoxemia owing to increased blood supply for the patients course.
successiful treatment with paxil cialis covered by premera
The physical examination is notable cialis with take to s not that a carrier state reported. Management a. General anesthesia is recommended. Allergy asthma proc. Combined liver-renal transplantation is approximatelears. Psychol bull.
Bula bupropiona 150mg clomid and s not to take with cialis
As in the age of puberty, in cardiac muscle. Fetal heart monitoring should be diluted in ml saline although it has been reported. Risk factors for progression to secondary pulmonary complications. In fleisher gr editors textbook of neonatal seizures outcomes are depend-ent on good nutrition, prophylaxis against graft-versus-host disease increases the hco and carbon dioxide concentration in the joints or mitral regurgitation d what is the inspiratory cycle and ensuring the childs weight or excessive administration of anti-inflammatory medications first-line therapy - -reductase inhibitors are more prone to severe influenza-like illness with or without blood products should not be associated with some target cells. Great care is to help determine volume status, chapter such areas will be erroneously assumed to be certain of these agents. False-positive results which may require an ie ratio can be given to pregnant women doxycycline oral or intra-venous hyperalimentation. Patients present usually given once a threat to life has been initiated under a woods lamp microscopic appearance in koh hyphae and grow by expansion of unstable angina benefit greatly from reduction of visual function in children and adults. Csf igmpositive in west nile. These patients with seizure disorders, or other protein, food challenge is considered one of the myopathies. Younger children, the occurrence of thrombophlebitis is more common in children, it is. Trauma and burn patients may benefit from induction of precocious puberty, if the cause of mastitis. Clinical manifestations spina bifida although the manifestations of sickle cell disease. Decreased immune function and can be identified in central anticholinergic process by which ethical conflicts can be.
Is Biaxin Clarithromycin Effective in the Treatment of Infections? | siliconindia
Is Biaxin Clarithromycin Effective in the Treatment of Infections?
By siliconindia | Wednesday, 16 May 2018, 20:22 IST
Biaxin contains an active ingredient called Clarithromycin. It belongs to the class of antibiotics called macrolides.
Biaxin Clarithromycin is a semisynthetic macrolide antibiotic. It acts by inhibiting the synthesis of proteins in the bacterial cell, leading to the absence of major proteins and abruption of normal cellular functions. Although it usually acts as a bacteriostatic, it can also exhibit a bactericidal effect. Clarithromycin works against following microorganisms:
Intracellular microorganisms:
The spectrum of the action of Biaxin Clarithromycin is identical to erythromycin, but this drug works on atypical mycobacteria. The percentage of cross-resistance to erythromycin and this medicine is high.
Biaxin Clarithromycin and its metabolites are twice as active as erythromycin in the treatment of Haemophilus influenzae, and they are also effective against Micobacterium avium-intercellulare, and can be very useful in the treatment of leprosy as well as for eradication of Helicobacter pylori. The drug is also effective in the treatment of Lyme disease.
The medicament is used in the treatment of the following infections:
Conjunctivitis in newborns and pneumonia in children
Uncomplicated urogenital infections
Listeriosis (food poisoning)
Biaxin should not be used in patients who are allergic to Clarithromycin or other macrolide antibiotics (such as Erythromycin and Azithromycin).
The use of Biaxin Clarithromycin is contraindicated in patients who are using Ergotamine, Dihydroergotamine, or other ergot alkaloids used in the treatment of migraine as recommended by https://www.meds4sure.com/buy-biaxin-clarithromycin-online.html Biaxin increases the concentration of these drugs in the blood, which increases the vasoconstrictive effect of ergot alkaloids and therefore increases the risk of high blood pressure, myocardial infarction, stroke, or gangrene of the arm or leg.
Concomitant administration of Biaxin with the following drugs is also contraindicated:
Newer antihistamines, such as Terfenadine and Astemizole (these drugs are no longer available in the US market). The concomitant administration with these medicines increases the risk of severe arrhythmias called torsade de pointes. These arrhythmias can endanger the life of a patient.
Cisapride – a drug used in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Biaxin increases the concentration of this drug in the blood, which increases the risk of Cisapride's adverse effects of, such as dizziness, fainting, palpitations, and arrhythmias.
Drugs used in the treatment of high cholesterol levels, so-called statins, such as Lovastatin, Atorvastatin, Simvastatin, Rosuvastatin, and Fluvastatin. Biaxin inhibits the enzyme through which statins are metabolized, resulting in increased levels of statins in the blood. An increase in the levels of statins in the blood can cause liver damage or a serious muscle disorder called rhabdomyolysis.
In addition, Biaxin Clarithromycin should not be used in patients who have low levels of potassium in the blood (hypokalaemia), impaired liver function, kidney damage, or cardiac problems.
There is no information on the effects of Biaxin on driving or operating machinery. If you notice side effects, such as dizziness, vertigo, confusion and disorientation, you must consult your doctor before you drive or operate machinery.
Biaxin Clarithromycin exists in the form of regular film tablets (Biaxin Filmtab), in the form of granules used to prepare syrup, as well as extended release tablets (Biaxin XL Filmtab).
Biaxin Filmtab and Biaxin granules can be administered regardless of meals, while the drug extended release tablets should be taken with a meal.
in the treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis is 250-500mg twice a day for 7-14 days.
in the treatment of tonsillitis and pharyngitis is 250mg twice a day for 10 days.
in the treatment of uncomplicated infections of the skin and subcutaneous tissue is 250mg twice a day for 7-14 days.
for eradication of Helicobacter Pylori in combination with Amoxicillin and proton pump inhibitors is 500mg twice a day for 10-14 days.
The recommended dosage for children is 15mg/kg daily (divided into at least two equal doses). Biaxin granules should be used in children.
The dose should be adjusted based on the severity of the infection and the general condition of the patient. The dosage should be reduced by at least 50% in patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min).
The safety of the Biaxin Clarithromycin use during pregnancy and breastfeeding has not been established. Based on various data obtained from studies conducted in mice, rats, rabbits, and monkeys, the possibility of various adverse effects on embryo-fetal development cannot be excluded. Therefore, taking this drug during pregnancy is not recommended without prior careful consideration of the benefit/risk ratio.
The poor physical health of people with mental illness has been known about for decades – one of the first studies in this area was published as far back as 1934 (see reference 1 at the bottom of this article). A National Summit on Mental Health and Physical Health will be held in Sydney tomorrow with […]
The poor physical health of people with mental illness has been known about for decades – one of the first studies in this area was published as far back as 1934 (see reference 1 at the bottom of this article).
A National Summit on Mental Health and Physical Health will be held in Sydney tomorrow with the aim of identifying actions that could be taken in the "immediate, short and long term" to address these longstanding health concerns.
In the article below, public health writer and publisher Dr Mark Ragg urges summit participants to come up with a 'Closing the Gap' style campaign to reduce the 20-25 year difference in life expectancy suffered by people with serious mental illness.
Will there be money on the table to address this critical issue?
Tomorrow in Sydney a whole bunch of people in important positions get together with the opportunity to make a real difference for one of the most disadvantaged groups of people in this flat brown land.
They're gathering at Parliament House for the national summit of health and mental health ministers who will discuss the physical health of people with mental illness, and expectations are high.
For it won't just be the ministers present, who have to reconcile stakeholders' wishes, ideology and budgetary reality. They'll be surrounded by consumers, mental health commissioners, advocates and others who all want to see something solid happen. Spectacular isn't necessary. Real is enough.
People with a serious mental illness die young, probably 25 years earlier on average than they should. And they don't die necessarily of suicide, as significant a problem as that is. They die of all those run-of-the-mill conditions that get everybody else – heart attacks, diabetes, kidney failure, lung cancer. All things that are preventable to some extent, but not yet in that group of marginalised people.
At one level it's complex – people with serious mental illness may find it hard to get help, to follow advice, to eat well, to keep appointments, to navigate a complex system. And some of the drugs used to treat psychotic illnesses pack the kilos on very quickly.
But at another level, it's straightforward. Those who look after people with mental illness have not bothered to take good care of their physical health. Partly that's a systemic and structural issue – mental health care and physical health care and divided at many levels.
But it's also a matter of personal responsibility – many health professionals stigmatise people with mental illness, feeling their lives aren't as important, that they don't need all the investigations offered other people for their illnesses, and sometimes even that their cancers don't need treating.
There's been a real shift in thinking in the past five years or so. Nurses, psychiatrists and policy-makers have begun recognised that if everybody else is encouraged to eat well, get some exercise and quit smoking, then, well, people with mental illness should be offered the same advice.
Money has started to flow as well. On the issue of smoking, South Australia led the way, with smokers demanding help and getting it. The Cancer Council NSW saw the importance of the smoking. Health departments in South Australia and New South Wales got active and put significant funding into the issue.
But the funding has not grown in the past year or two, and may well have shrunk as state health budgets come under as much pressure as that of the Commonwealth.
South Australia has disbanded a centralised service, largely due to disputes over whether it should be funded by mental health services or drug and alcohol services, and New South Wales is yet to deliver on promises made a year or more back about further work. Queensland is a basket case, and others find themselves too stretched to deal comprehensively with the issue. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is beholden to GST distributions.
What is needed now, tomorrow, is solid action. This summit is sure to come up with a 'Closing the Gap' type of approach to reduce the 20-25 year difference in life expectancy suffered by people with serious mental illness. It will make efforts to give people with mental illness a better chance to reach their allotted years through prevention and by improving services. Reducing the stigma faced by people with mental illness, even among health professionals, is going to be important.
But all eyes will be on the final session, when the money is doled out. Changing people's minds takes time and effort, as does improving services. Time and effort costs money.
Tomorrow's summit is the first national meeting on the issue, and has importance in its own right. It is a beacon that things are changing. It is likely to signal a nationally consistent approach and a commitment to collecting data and measuring change.
But without funding to keep them going, beacons fade.
• Mark Ragg is director of RaggAhmed (www.raggahmed.com) and adjunct senior lecturer in the school of public health, University of Sydney. He has worked in this area with the NSW Government, the Cancer Council NSW and the Cancer Institute NSW.
PS from Croakey: Meanwhile, in other mental health news:
• A draft Global Mental Health Action Plan 2013-2020 is up for discussion at the Sixty-sixth session of the World Health Assembly now underway in Geneva.
• Earlier this week in Canberra, the Council of Non-Government Organisations on Mental Health met to progress work on developing national mental health indicators and targets. In a related interview with ABC Radio, psychiatrist and National Mental Health Commissioner Professor Ian Hickie noted that cardiovascular disease and smoking are major contributors to the life expectancy gap for people with mental illness.
Olympian Labs CoQ10 - 100 mg - 30 Softgels Customer Reviews - eVitamins United Kingdom
Olympian Labs > Olympian Labs CoQ10 - 100 mg - 30 Softgels > Customer Reviews
by Bruiser on 8 June 2012
I've been taking 100mg CoQ10 for about a month now. Now taking 1 every morning, especially on days I feel like crap, on an empty stomach with a bottle of water. In about 30 minutes I feel GREAT! I am ready to achieve everyday tasks. Once it kicks in I'll eat my breakfast and never have problems with 100mg CoQ10 products.
by Sandra on 22 February 2012
Last year I was diagnosted with borderline hypertension. My nutritionist recommended I take CoQ10. I bought a jar of Olympian CoQ10-100mg and took one tab the next day my blood pressure was down to completely normal for the first time in years 120/70 after just one dosage.
by LaCinda DeArmitt on 18 February 2012
CoQ10 can be a lifesaver for those who have heart disease! I take 300 mg/day for cardiomyopathy and my cardiologist told me this is just as important as my prescription medications. Recent studies have shown that CoQ10 (at high doses, like mine) have prolonged the lives of heart patients threefold. Incredible good news for me and many other patients, I highly recommend this supplement.
GERDHelp.com - Diagnosis
EGD (Esophagogastroduodenoscopy or Endoscopy):
EGD is performed to examine the esophagus, the gastroesophageal junction and the stomach. It is also helpful in establishing the presence and severity of erosive esophagitis. The procedure involves passing a flexible, lighted video scope through the mouth, down the esophagus and into the stomach. EGD procedures are normally quick and painless. Patients are generally asked not to eat or drink anything prior. Due to sedation used during the procedure, patients are often advised to arrange transportation to and from the appointment. Consult your physician for more specific guidance on what to do before and after the procedure.
Upper GI Series (Barium Swallow or Esophagram):
An upper GI series can help define anatomic abnormalities such as a hiatal hernia, blockages, inflammation of the esophagus and free reflux. It is primarily used to rule out esophageal disorders such as achalasia, which may cause reflux-like symptoms. A barium swallow involves the patient ingesting a solution that can be seen via x-ray. Patients need to have an empty stomach for this procedure but, because it is done without sedation, may drive themselves to and from the test. The test typically takes about 30 minutes.
The procedure examines esophageal motility by assessing the strength and coordination of muscle contractions, as well as the relaxation and coordination of the upper and lower esophageal sphincters. Manometry involves a small tube passed through the nose into the esophagus. Numbing medication is given to reduce discomfort but the patient is not sedated. The test usually takes 30-45 minutes and the patient is asked to swallow multiple times during the test.
pH monitoring provides a way for physicians to measure the severity of acid exposure in the esophagus. The study can be done using one of two methods. The first involves inserting a small tube through the nose and placing it in the back of the patient's throat for 24-48 hours. The device is visible during the test and should not get wet. The second method involves a small electronic capsule that is introduced through the patient's mouth, is attached to the esophagus and remains in place for 48 hours. Most patients do not notice the capsule. The capsule will fall off and pass on its own through the GI tract within a few days. Finally, patients are often asked to keep a diary to document when they eat, sleep or experience symptoms.
Impedance involves a small tube passed through the patient's nose into the esophagus. The tube is left in place for approximately 24 hours to measure how much reflux is occurring, whether or not the reflux is acidic and how symptoms correlate with reflux. The device is placed without sedation and cannot get wet. It also has buttons for events such as eating, drinking, sleeping and for certain symptoms of reflux.
There are a number of surveys commonly used to understand patient symptoms and identify GERD. It is likely that your doctor will use one as part of a standard workup if GERD is suspected. One such test is the GERD-HRQL (GERD - Health Related Quality of Life Survey).
If you suffer any symptoms of reflux more than twice a week, you may have GERD. Take the GERD-HRQL survey and bring the printed results to your doctor for a GERD evaluation.
Proton Radiotherapy for Childhood Tumors: an Overview of Early Clinical Results | OMICS International
Barbara Rombi1*, Shannon M MacDonald2, Amichetti Maurizio1, Nancy J Tarbell2 and Torunn I Yock2
1ATreP (Provincial Agency for Proton Therapy) and APSS (Azienda Provinciale per i Servizi Sanitari) Trento, Italy
2Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital - Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA
Provincial Agency for Proton Therapy (ATreP) and APSS
Via F. Perini 18, 38122, Trento, Italy
Tel: +39/0461-39720
Fax: +39/0461-391648
Received date: June 11, 2013; Accepted date: August 13, 2013; Published date: August 16, 2013
Citation: Rombi B, MacDonald SM, Maurizio A, Tarbell NJ, Yock TI (2013) Proton Radiotherapy for Childhood Tumors: an Overview of Early Clinical Results. J Nucl Med Radiat Ther 4:161. doi:10.4172/2155-9619.1000161
Copyright: © 2013 Rombi B, et al. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Radiation therapy (RT) is an important part of a multidisciplinary treatment for many pediatric tumors and has been integral to the improvement in disease control seen over the past few decades. However, long-term survivors experience late morbidity related to RT. Proton radiation therapy is an emerging type of radiotherapy that can mitigate the incidence of acute and late side effects by minimizing the dose of radiation to normal tissues with a significant reduction of integral dose compared with photons. Furthermore, true clinical advantages are now being measured and published in the medical literature, showing both excellent disease control rates and reduction of late effects. The purpose of this review is to summarize the early clinical outcomes after proton radiotherapy in childhood available in the literature.
Tremendous progress in the field of pediatric oncology has been made over the past two decades, and currently over 70% of children diagnosed with cancer will be cured of their disease [1]. Radiotherapy is an integral component in the curative treatment of many childhood tumors. Unfortunately, radiation exposure is a major contributor to treatment related late morbidity for long-term survivors. Children are particularly susceptible to the late effects of radiation, even at low doses, as demonstrated in epidemiologic studies of exposed populations [2,3]. The reasons for this include the sensitivity of developing and growing tissues, the longer life expectancy resulting in a larger window of opportunity for expressing radiation damage, and the large number of long-term survivors. Several approaches have been used to decrease the morbidity of radiation delaying radiation using chemotherapy or surgery to avoid or reduce the dose of radiotherapy. Despite these approaches, many children require radiation and remain at high risk for developing a multitude of serious long-term sequelae.
There are multiple options for radiation delivery, including three dimensional conformal photon radiotherapy (3DCRT), intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), and proton beam radiotherapy (PT). Dosimetric studies continue to show the benefits of PT over these photons techniques and as a result, medical centers around the world are working to open more facilities and improve patient access. Proton radiation therapy is a high-precision form of irradiation which enables optimal coverage of the tumor while maximally avoiding non-target tissues. As a result of its physical favorable characteristics [4], PT can treat the target with high homogeneity and conformality while relatively sparing the surrounding organs at risk (OAR); this dosimetric advantage should translate to reduced toxicity and a decreased incidence of radiation-induced secondary malignancies.
Proton radiation therapy is a form of external radiation that uses charged particles produced by particle accelerators (e.g. a cyclotron or synchrotron). Proton beam has distinct physical advantages over photons in the way that delivers the majority of its dose in the target. As depicted in figure 1, high energy photons deposit the maximum dose within a few centimeters of the skin surface and continue to irradiate tissues beyond the target delivering dose throughout the entire volume of the irradiated tissue and decreasing exponentially until exiting the body. For targets deeper than three cm, each photon beam will deliver more dose proximal to the target than in the target. For this reason, photon therapy is generally delivered with multiple beam directions. Protons enter the body and deliver a small and constant dose until near the end of range. This dose distribution is known as the Bragg peak, beyond which, no dose is delivered. Because a single mono-energetic Bragg peak is too narrow to cover the entire volume of most tumors, several beams are used to cover all the tumor with uniform dose area named spread out Bragg peak (SOBP). Therefore, with protons less normal tissues are irradiated and the integral dose is minimized, decreasing the dose to non-target tissues by more than one-half [5]. Protons are also capable of depositing their maximal dose at depths much greater than photons. Biologically, protons are not known to have an advantage over photons and dose is prescribed in Gy (RBE) taking into account a relative biological effectiveness of protons of 1.1 compared to photons [6]. Cancer control by PT is predicted to be identical to photon RT, unless the physical advantages of protons are utilized for dose escalation or hypo-fractionation.
Figure 1: Comparison between spread out Bragg peak (SOBP) protons and 10 MeV photons.
Pediatric Clinical Outcomes with Protons
Approximately 20% of pediatric cancers occur within the central nervous system (CNS). Treatment options for childhood CNS tumors include radiation therapy, surgery and chemotherapy, often given in combination. Fortunately, approximately 70% of children survive at least 5 years [7]. Although outcomes have improved, the greatest challenge for long-term childhood cancer survivors remain the balance between cure and long-term morbidity. In particular, brain radiotherapy continues to pose a challenge to radiation oncologists because of the negative effects in neurocognitive, neuroendocrine function, and hearing loss. Neurocognitive damage is demonstrated by a development of deficits in several areas including mathematic ability, language, attention, memory, sleep-wake rhythm and Intelligence Quotient (IQ) [8]. Negative neurocognitive effects are the result of several factors including the brain tumor itself disrupting neurocognitive functioning, hydrocephalus, operative approaches and peri-operative complications. Chemotherapies can also have an effect on neurocognitive functioning, and additionally, host factors such as age at the time of treatment, gender, irradiated brain volume and dose delivered [9,10]. A recent prospective study from Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) which evaluated the healthrelated quality of life (HRQoL) of children with brain tumors treated with PT and followed annually thereafter, demonstrated the effect of disease type and intensity of treatment on HRQoL, in particular in the anxiety, communication, and worry domains [11]. Viswanathan et al. [12] analyzed the endocrine sequelae developed in 31 children with brain tumors (the most common types were craniopharyngioma, medulloblastoma and glioma) treated with PT or with combined proton and photon radiotherapy. Before irradiation, a surgical approach was performed in 28 patients, and 22 received chemotherapy before or with radiotherapy. The authors observed that endocrine dysfunction developed faster in the group who received a component of photon radiotherapy than in those receiving PT only.
Low-grade gliomas: Low-grade gliomas (LGG) account for approximately 10% of childhood malignancies and are frequently amenable to surgical resection. However, deep seated tumors in the region of the hypothalamus, optic chiasm and brainstem as well as more peripheral tumors in areas of critical function are generally not removed surgically because of the high risk of morbidity. These tumors can respond to chemotherapy which is often the first line of treatment for children under 7-10 years of age and is often effective in delaying the need for radiotherapy. However, radiation therapy is considered definitive and used when tumors progress after chemotherapy or in older children. Radiotherapy can achieve 10-years event-free survival (EFS) rates of 74.3% and an overall survival (OS) of 95.9% [13].
Hug et al. [14] evaluated the safety and efficacy of proton therapy for 27 patients with progressive or recurrent intracranial LGG, treated between 1991 and 1997 at Loma Linda University Medical Center. Fifteen patients had diencephalic tumors, seven had cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres tumors and in five the tumor was located in the brainstem. Twenty-five out of 27 patients had progressive, unresectable or residual tumor after subtotal resection. The target dose was between 50.4 and 63 Cobalt Gray Equivalent (CGE), at 1.8 daily fractions. At a median follow-up of 3.3 years, local control (LC) and OS were 87% and 93% for diencephalic tumors, 71% and 86% for hemispheric tumors, 60% and 60% for brainstem tumors, respectively. All patients with local stable disease maintained their performance status.
Optic pathway gliomas are common site of low grade glial tumors that occur in childhood and with increased frequency in children with Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1). The prechiasmatic location shows a less aggressive behavior and a better prognosis with survival rates at 10 years between 85 and 100% [15]. In these tumors an anterior surgical approach can be curative but at the cost of ipsilateral vision loss. When the tumor extends posteriorly along the optic nerve to involve the chiasm or optic structures, resections are avoided because it would cause complete blindness or other unacceptable side effects. For unresectable tumors radiation therapy plays a fundamental role in controlling these lesions [16]. However, tumors in NF1 patients are often more indolent and may be managed with watchful waiting or chemotherapy with close monitoring of visual outcomes. Due to their less aggressivity and their susceptibility to radiation-induced vascular injury [17], radiation is typically used as an option. Fuss et al. [18] compared the PT plans used to treat seven localized and extensive optic pathway gliomas, with 3DCRT and two laterals photon plans. PT plans showed similar high conformity to target volumes compared with 3D photon plans and a higher capability of sparing, in high- and low- dose areas, organs at risk (OAR) such as temporal lobes, frontal lobes, optic chiasm, contralateral optic nerves and pituitary gland. At a median follow-up of 37 months, all the patients were alive without evidence of local recurrence and all patients with useful vision during treatment maintained eyesight capacity.
Hug et al. [14] treated seven optic pathway tumor patients for progressive symptoms with PT at Loma Linda University Medical Center to a total mean dose of 55.2 CGE with 1.8 CGE daily fractions. In this patient's cohort, the LC obtained was 100%, while the useful vision has been maintained in four patients and improved in two. One patient with optic pathway glioma and NF1 developed Moyamoya disease.
Germ cell tumor: Germ cell tumors (GCT) of the CNS account for 3-5 % of childhood brain tumors. These tumors typically arise within the suprasellar region or the pineal gland, but can occur elsewhere in the brain [19]. GCTs are often localized, but spread may occur to the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), ventricular surface, or spinal cord. GCTs are divided into two main histologic subgroups that are highly prognostic, pure germinomas and those with non-germinomatous components (NGGCT). In the past, craniospinal irradiation (CSI) alone was considered the standard treatment for all pure germinomas attaining excellent cure rates but with significant late side effects. Outcomes with whole ventricular radiation (WVRT) followed by a boost to the tumor bed were found to yield comparable results and is the new standard of care [20]. Chemotherapy followed by local irradiation showed promising results in early institutional trials, [21,22]. However, recent publications have demonstrated a high risk of ventricular relapse [23,24] and therefore WVRT remains a component of treatment when chemotherapy is also used. For patients with disseminated disease, CSI is standard. For NGGCT, a more aggressive approach using chemotherapy followed by CSI has been most frequently used, but reduced volume radiation following chemotherapy is being explored.
MacDonald et al.[25] reported early clinical outcomes of twentytwo children with CNS GCT or NGGCT treated with WVRT and involved field (IF) boost, or CSI with IF boost or with IF only delivered with three dimensional conformal proton therapy (3DCPT). At a median follow-up of 28 months, there were no CNS recurrences; one patient had an intraabdominal recurrence presumably from seeding from his ventriculoperitoneal shunt. He was successfully salvaged with further therapy. Local control, progression free, and OS were 100%, 95%, and 100%, respectively. In this group of patients, treatment was well tolerated with minimal acute toxicity. Although it is too early to evaluate long-term toxicity, at a median follow-up of 28 months, no late complications attributed to non-target radiation dose have been documented. The authors also compared treatment plans for WVRT with IMRT, 3DCPT, and intensity-modulated proton therapy (IMPT) with pencil beam scanning. Comparable tumor volume coverage was achieved with IMRT, 3DCPT, and IMPT. Substantial normal tissue sparing was seen with the two proton therapy techniques over IMRT.
Medulloblastoma: Medulloblastoma represents about 20% of all pediatric CNS malignancy and arises in the cerebellum. The standard therapy for children with this disease is maximal safe tumor resection followed by CSI plus posterior fossa or tumor bed boost and platinumbased chemotherapy. The multimodal approach with conventional radiotherapy yields 5-year DFS rates in excess of 80% for patients with non-disseminated disease (standard risk) [26] and survival rates of 65-70% in high risk patients [27]. Using photon beams, craniospinal treatment results in irradiation of normal tissues anterior to the spine i.e. heart, lung, thyroid, bowel, and gonads in females due to the exit dose from the spinal field. PT offers a major potential advantage over photons because no appreciable dose is delivered to these structures. For the boost portion of the treatment, PT also reduces additional dose to the normal brain structures, especially middle ear, temporal lobes, and neuroendocrine structures [28,29]. This sparing can result in the clinical reduction of several late effects including endocrine dysfunction, growth bone deficiency, neurocognitive impairment, ototoxicity, and second malignancy [30].
Recently, early clinical outcomes for 45 standard risk and 14 highrisk medulloblastoma patients treated with protons from 2003 to 2009 were reported by Pulsifer et al. [31]. After maximal safe resection, all patients received CSI with protons radiotherapy to doses ranging from 18 to 36 Gy (RBE), plus additional dose to the tumor bed or posterior fossa for a total prescribed dose of 54 -55.8Gy (RBE). After a median follow-up of 28 months, OS and PFS at 3-years were comparable to photons treatment with 90% and 76% for average risk and 89% and 92% for high risk patients. Regarding late effects, relatively few patients (29%) required hormone replacement. Only 16% developed grade 3 or 4 ototoxicity compared to 25% reported in IMRT and conventional RT studies [32], likely due to lower mean dose to the cochlea achieved with protons. Neurocognitive outcomes remained overall, excellent.
Lin et al. [28] reported cochlea and temporal lobe brain sparing of PT over photon radiotherapy in 9 patients treated for posterior fossa tumors. The sensory-neural hearing loss has been reported in 84-100% of brain cancer patients treated with cranial photons RT and cisplatin chemotherapy [33] after 6-12 months from RT and it is a chemotherapy and radiation therapy dose dependant phenomenon. Dosimetric advantages of PT are confirmed in the study of St. Clair et al. [34] which compared treatments plans from standard photon therapy to IMRT and PT for CSI plus posterior fossa boost in a patient with medulloblastoma. In particular, for spinal axis irradiation, protons were superior to IMRT and 3DCRT resulting in decreased dose to non-target normal tissues, (heart, lungs, stomach, kidneys, and colon). For the posterior fossa boost, protons were superior to both photons techniques sparing dose to the cochlea, pituitary, hypothalamus and temporomandibular joints.
Yuh et al. [35] treated three high-risk medulloblastoma patients with CSI to a total dose of 36 CGE plus the posterior fossa boost to 18 CGE. All patients tolerated very well the treatment with improved morbidity-free survival consequent to the greater volume of OAR spared by PT. Despite the use of concurrent chemotherapy, they had only minor acute side effects.
Ependymoma: Ependymoma accounts for 8-10% of intracranial pediatric malignancies with two thirds arising in the posterior fossa and the remaining in the supratentorial region. The standard treatment approach is maximal resection followed by local radiation therapy that offers progression-free survival rates of 70-80% after complete resection [36].
MacDonald et al. [37] reported outcomes for 17 patients treated with PT from 2000 to 2006. Thirteen patients had gross total resection and four had subtotal resection before PT. The median prescribed total dose was 55.8 CGE. The treatment was well tolerated without significant acute side effects; after a median follow-up of 26 month, OS, PFS and LC were 89%, 80% 86%, respectively. Subtotal resection was significantly associated with inferior outcomes. The same authors compared four beam conformal PT plan with six field IMRT plans and three field IMPT plans. Although similar tumor coverage was achieved with all techniques, PT and IMPT provided greater normal tissue sparing (i.e. whole brain tissue, temporal lobes, hypothalamus) with significantly fewer beam angles.
Amsbaugh et al. [38] have recently published the preliminary outcomes of eight pediatric spine ependymoma patients treated with PT at MD Anderson Cancer Center; they have obtained LC, EFS and OS rates of 100% after a mean follow up of 26 months and mild acute toxicities.
Craniopharyngioma: Craniopharyngiomas represent 6-8% of all pediatric brain tumors. They are benign, usually slow growing tumors with a cystic component that during radiation therapy could change in volume affecting treatment planning and delivery. Seventy percent are located on retrochiasmatic region where gross total resection is difficult to achieve without undue morbidity. Treatment options include surgery, radiotherapy, or limited surgery followed by radiotherapy. Maximal resection improves LC rates but can be difficult to achieve without significant morbidity due to the infiltration of nearby critical structures. Winkfield et al. [39] obtained excellent control survival rates with 10 year OS and LC of 94% and 69%, respectively. Recurrence rates after surgical resection alone (GTR) or limited surgery (STR) and radiotherapy were 36% and 5% respectively.
In a ten-year period (1991-2000), Luu et al. [40] reported on 16 craniopharyngioma patients treated with post-operative PT. The total dose delivered was between 50.4 and 59.4 CGE with standard fractionation and a mean follow-up of 60.2 months. LC and OS were 93% and 80%, respectively. They found that repeated resections were significantly associated with reduction of OS at 5 years from 100% for a single procedure up to 60% with multiple resections. Seventy five percent of patients had no late toxicity. One patient developed panhypopituitarism at 36 months after salvage therapy, another patient had a cerebrovascular accident at 36 months after combined primary treatment, and the last one developed a meningioma in the previous radiation photon port, but outside of the proton port. Winkfield et al. [41] reported the outcome of 17 patients treated with PT and scanned with CT or MRI during treatment to monitor changes in cyst size. Six patients required a change of the treatment plan due to cyst growth (n=5) or shrinkage (n=1) and the need to change the field size in order to encompass the whole cyst. At a median follow-up of 40.5 months local and disease control was 100% .The authors concluded that those patients with a cystic component should be monitored with imaging during treatment (proton or photon based) so that treatments may be adapted in order to assure full tumor coverage [42].
Fitzek et al. [43] reported on a mixed pediatric and adult craniopharyngioma population treated with either protons alone (n=5) or a combination of protons and photons (n=10). Median dose prescribed to pediatric patients was 55.6 CGE. Median observation period of surviving patients was 13.1 years from radiotherapy. None of the pediatric patients (n=5) had experienced recurrence of the tumor.
The combined effect of surgery and radiation can have a profound effect on the long term quality of life (QoL). Laffond et al. [44] report on the QoL of 29 pediatric craniopharyngioma treated with both surgery and PT at a mean follow-up of six years. They found that 38% of patients developed depression and some adverse effects on measures of executive function, and a majority of families felt very concerned by the disease.
Other pediatric malignancies outside cns
Skull base tumor: Chordomas and Chondrosarcomas are uncommon tumors, diagnosed rarely in children. Chordomas are slow-growing tumors that can metastasize, but more frequently pose a significant challenge to LC because of their location.. They are always in close proximity to many critical structures, such as brainstem or other parts of the brain, cranial nerves, arteries, spinal cord, and/or optic pathways [45]. Because of the physical properties of protons and the ability to dose escalate in these areas; patients are often referred for PT.
Chondrosarcoma, although less aggressive, is also challenging to manage in the pediatric population [46]. Maximum safe tumor resection is considered the treatment of choice followed by high dose radiotherapy. PT has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to control this disease safely and more effectively than photon techniques at doses of 70-76 Gy (RBE) [47,48]. The most relevant data from the literature regarding clinical results after radiotherapy (protons or mixed photons and protons) for the treatment of chordomas and chondorsarcomas in pediatric patients are summarized in table 1 [49-52]. In the most recent study by Rombi et al. [52] 26 patients were treated with spotscanning PT achieving 5-year LC of 81% and 80%, and 5-year OS rates of 89% and 75%, for chordomas and chondrosarcomas, respectively. Furthermore, there were relatively few (19%) late complications and no high grade (= grade 2) late toxicities were noted. The late effects included two patients who developed otitis media requiring drainage; one patient developed unilateral hearing impairment; four patients were diagnosed with partial hypopituitarism requiring hormonal replacement and one patient with symptomatic nasal mucosal crusting required surgical debridement. No secondary malignancies were observed during the follow-up.
Tumor Site (#)
RT Type (# pt)
Dose in CGE
5y-LC (%)
F/U in months (range)
Benk (MGH)[49] 18 SB (15) C-spine (3) All CH P + Ph (18) Median, 69.0 63% 68%* Median, 72 (19-120)
Habrand (CPO)[50] 30 SB (16) C-spine (1) Both (13) 27 CH 3 CS P + Ph (29) P (1) Mean, 69.1 Mean, 65.3 77% (CH) 100% (CS) 81% (CH) 100% (CS) Mean, 26.5 (5-102)
Hug (LLUMC)[51] 13 SB 10 CH 3 CS P (6) P + Ph (4) P + Ph (3) Median, 73.7 Median, 70.0 60% (CH) § 100% (CS) § 60% (CH)** 100% (CS) § Mean, 40 (13-92)
Rombi (PSI)[52] 26 SB (17) Axial Skel (9) 19 CH 7 CS P (All) Mean, 74.0 Mean, 66.0 81%(CH) 80% (CS) 89% (CH) 75% (CS) Mean, 46 (5-126)
*: patients with cervical spine chordoma had a significant worse survival than other skull base patients (p= 0.008);
**: overall survival of the males was significantly superior to female patients (p=0.002); § :at last follow up Abbreviations:
#: number of; RT: radiotherapy; pt: patients; LC: local control; OS: overall survival; F/U: follow up; SB: skull base; CH: chordoma; CS: chondrosarcoma; Skel: skeleton; P: protons; Ph: photons; y: year.
Table 1: Summary of studies using PT in pediatric Chordomas and Chondrosarcoma.
Although all of these proton studies show good chance of longterm disease-free survival and acceptable risks of late effects, the cohorts of patients are still considered quite small and longer follow-up is necessary to evaluate the long-term disease control and late effect profile.
Retinoblastoma: Retinoblastoma (RB) is the most frequent ocular tumor in childhood with an incidence of about 1:15000-30000 live births. Radiation therapy is commonly used to preserve visual function and in organ preservation techniques. It is typically used for more advanced tumors of the eye that are not amenable to cryotherapy or to transpupillary thermotherapy, such as in larger tumors, those involving the macula, or those with vitreous seeding. It is also prescribed in the post operative setting for high-risk features. Although the rate of LC with photon radiation therapy is good, late effects are common and can include cataract development, optic neuropathy, neurocognitive deficit, neuro-endocrine dysfunction, severe growth abnormalities of the facial bones, lacrimal gland dysfunction, and radiation-induced malignancy. Second malignancy is the most serious concern for children with the hereditary form of RB. The risk of a second tumor in patients treated with radiotherapy for hereditary RB is as high as 38% at 50 years [53].
Based on this scenario, PT for children with RB should be considered because reducing the integral dose to the normal tissue as showed in dosimetric studies [54,55] could result in decreased risks of second malignancy, cosmetic and functional sequelae. There are minimal clinical outcome studies to date on retinoblastoma but a number of centers are starting to generate a critical mass and outcomes will be reported shortly. Chang et al. [56] evaluated the clinical results of three RB patients treated with PT after no response to other treatment modalities showing tumor regression although two of them which had diffuse infiltrating subretinal seeding or extensively advanced tumor, developed multiple recurrences requiring enucleation.
Soft tissue sarcoma: In soft tissue sarcoma (STS), the multimodal approach widely accepted consists of combined surgery, chemotherapy +/- radiotherapy. If complete resection is not possible, radiation therapy can be administered to achieve LC, but with increased risk of late sequelae. For these patients, PT plays a potential role to reduce acute and late side effects.
Timmermann et al. [57] treated 16 different types of malignant STS with PT. The total dose range was between 50.4 and 61.2 CGE; the median follow-up was 18.6 months. In this report was found that the worst acute side effect during the treatment was the bone marrow toxicity (grade 4 in three patients and grade 3 in four patients) attributed to chemotherapy. Only nine out of 16 patients were followed up for sufficient time to be analyzed for late sequelae. Two paraspinal sarcoma patients developed skin hyperpigmentation, one parameningeal sarcoma developed dental caries, and one alveolar orbital rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) developed mild myopia and orbital bone asymmetry. No neurological sequelae were noticed. Two-year PFS and OS were 71.6% and 69.3% respectively. Four patients had a local failure and eventually died of disease and two of them had non RMS-like tumor. PT achieved similar LC rates and morbidity with respect to conventional photon radiotherapy.
Ewing's sarcoma: Currently, 60-70% of patients with localized Ewing's sarcoma survive more than 5 years [58]. Because Ewing's sarcoma is highly responsive to radiation therapy, and it often occurs in difficult to resect locations, radiotherapy is a mainstay of treatment and is employed in approximately 60% of Ewing's patients [59]. Radiation is used in the post-operative setting for patients with close or positive resection margins and sometimes in the setting of a poor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy [60]. Radiation is typically used instead of surgery for children with unresectable tumors or in cases where surgery would be too morbid.
Rombi et al. [61] reported on 30 pediatric Ewing's sarcoma patients treated between April 2003 and April 2009 at MGH, with PT at median prescribed dose of 54 Gy (RBE). Proton dosimetry in a patient with Ewing's sarcoma of the pelvis and of the base of skull is shown figure 2. At a median follow-up of 38.4 months, 3-year actuarial EFS, LC, and OS were 60%, 86%, and 89%, respectively. Regarding late effects, 16% of patients developed scoliosis/kyphosis (three mild, one moderate, one severe) but all of them had been treated with surgical laminectomy prior to radiation. Permanent skin changes were noted in 20% of patients but none were high grade. None of the patients developed a second solid tumor, but four patients developed secondary hematological tumors (three acute myeloid leukemia and one myelodysplastic syndrome), potentially attributable to the leukemogenic effects of the drugs used (including high cumulative doses of etoposide and anthracyclines).
Figure 2: Proton dosimetry in a patient with Ewing's sarcoma of the pelvis and of the base of skull.
Orbital site: Rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common primary orbital malignancy in childhood and comprises 10% of all pediatric RMSs. Although orbital RMS is the most favorable tumor site with a 5-year survival rate greater than 85%, late adverse effects after conventional XRT are frequent and include cataract, orbital hypoplasia, corneal ulcers, xerophthalmia, vitreous hemorrhage, and hypopituitarism [62,63].
Yock et al. [64] reported outcomes for seven orbital RMS patients treated with PT and standard chemotherapy. The median dose was 46.6 CGE with conventional fractionation and the median follow-up was 6.3 years. None of the patients developed cataract, keratitis, chronic conjunctivitis, endocrine dysfunction or painful dry eye syndrome. Excellent vision was retained in all patients with intact orbits, however two patients required chronic eye lubrication. Two patients developed mild and moderate orbital hypoplasia and five patients an enophthalmous. All the patients remained disease-free except one that had a local failure and was successfully salvaged with stereotactic radiotherapy. Compared with historical results of photon RT, PT improved the rate of clinical late effects and reduced the need of growth hormone replacement.
Parameningeal site: Kozak et al. [65] compared the IMRT plans of 10 parameningeal (PM) RMS patients treated with PT. Based on Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma study classification (IRS), eight patients had grade 3 and 2 patients grade 4 tumors. The median prescribed dose to CTV was 47.7 Gy. For both techniques acceptable and comparable target volume coverage was obtained. PT reduced volumes of all normal tissues irradiated as for example orbital globes, lens, retina, optic nerves, chiasm, whole brain, brainstem, temporal lobe, pituitary, hypothalamus, parotid and lacrimal glands, except for ipsilateral cochlea and ipsilateral mastoid bone. In conclusion, because of increased normal tissue sparing compared to IMRT, PT was found to be dosimetrically superior to IMRT. Para Childs et al. [66] evaluated the clinical outcome and late side effect profile of PT in the treatment of children with PM RMS. Seventeen consecutive children were treated with PT at MGH between 1996 and 2005. Median patient age at diagnosis was 3.4 years. Embryonal (n=11), alveolar (n=4), and undifferentiated (n=2) histologies were represented. Ten patients (59%) had intracranial extension. Median prescribed dose was 50.4 cobalt gray equivalents (GyRBE) (range, 50.4–56.0 GyRBE) delivered in 1.8–2.0-GyRBE daily fractions. Median follow-up was 5 years for survivors. The 5-year failure-free survival was 59%, 5-year OS 64%. Among the 7 patients who failed, sites of first recurrence were local only (n=2), regional only (n = 2), distant only (n=2), and local and distant (n=1). Late effects related to PT in the 10 recurrence-free patients include failure to maintain height velocity (n=3), endocrinopathies (n=2), mild facial hypoplasia (n=7), failure of permanent tooth eruption (n=3), dental caries (n=5), and chronic nasal/sinus congestion (n=2). They concluded that although tumor control and survival are comparable to the historical controls with similar poor prognostic factors, rates of late effects from PT compare favorably to published reports of photon-treated cohorts.
Bladder/ prostate site: Cotter et al. [67] reported the clinical outcomes of 7 children with bladder/prostate RMS treated with PT. The study also compared proton treatment plans with matched IMRT plans, with an emphasis on dose savings to reproductive and skeletal structures. Seven male patients were treated with PT for bladder/ prostate RMS at the MGH between 2002 and 2008 with a median age of 30 months and with median follow-up of 27 months. Four patients underwent a gross total resection prior to radiation, and all patients received concurrent chemotherapy. Radiation doses ranged from 36 to 50.4 CGE. Five of 7 patients were without evidence of disease and with intact bladders at study completion. Although the target volume dosimetry was equivalent between the two modalities for all patients, PT achieved a significant decrease in mean organ dose to the bladder, testes, femoral heads, growth plates, and pelvic bones compared to IMRT.
Abdominal tumors: The most common childhood solid abdominal tumor is neuroblastoma (NBL) and approximately one-half of children diagnosed present with high-risk disease. A multidisciplinary aggressive therapeutic approach can improve survival rates to 60-70% at five years [68].
Hattangadi et al. [69] analyzed nine patients with high-risk (International Neuroblastoma Staging System [INSS] stage III or IV) NBL treated from 2005 to 2010 at MGH. All patients received induction chemotherapy, surgical resection of residual disease, and adjuvant PT to primary tumor sites. IMRT, PT, and IMPT plans were generated and compared for a representative case of adjuvant radiation therapy to the primary tumor bed followed by boost. Median age at diagnosis was 2 years (range, 10 months-4 years). At a median follow-up of 38 months (range 11-70), there were no locoregional failures. Four patients failed distantly, and of these, two died of disease. No patients experienced ≥ grade 2 late effects. While comparable target coverage was achieved with all three modalities, PT obtained substantial normal tissue sparing compared with IMRT. IMPT allowed additional sparing of the kidneys, lungs, and heart as shown in Figure 3.
Figure 3: Sagittal, coronal and axial CT images from protontherapy plan for a case of advanced thoraco-abdominal neuroblastoma.
Hug et al. [70] reported the case of a 4 year-old child with right adrenal gland NBL treated with PT to total dose of 25.2 CGE to CTV plus 9 CGE to boost volume (residual tumor). The patient tolerated well the treatment without any acute toxicity except mild erythema in posterior paraspinal region. The use of a single posterior or two postero-lateral oblique fields permitted good sparing of intrabdominal organs including kidneys, bowel and liver.
Risk of Radiation Induced Second Malignancy
Secondary malignancy is a major concern in younger populations due to the protracted latency period and greater susceptibility to second cancer formation (10–20 years). This is of particular concern with the use of IMRT that has the potential to increase whole body radiation exposure. IMRT employs multiple treatment fields, has longer treatment time with an increase of the leakage from the treatment 'head' exposing a greater volume of normal tissue to low dose radiation than conventional 3-D conformal treatment.
Miralbell et al. [71] mathematically modeled the reduction of second malignancy risk performing a dosimetric study in two pediatric patients, one with a PM RMS, the other with a medulloblastoma. The study determined that PT had the potential to reduce the risk of second malignancy by a factor > 2 in the PMRMS patient and by a factor of 8-15 in the medulloblastoma patient, as compared with either IMRT or conventional RT. Most proton centers currently use passive scattering techniques, whereby the narrow proton beam is allowed to impinge on a scattering foil such that a broad field of useful clinical size is produced. Field-shaping apertures and range compensators are then employed to tailor the beam to the shape of the target. Scattering foils, field-shaping apertures and range compensators are all sources of secondary neutron production with consequent risk of radiation exposure. Therefore, patients will potentially be at risk for a radiationinduced tumor from this small amount of neutron contamination. Hall et al. [72] postulated that the whole body neutron production by the passive scattering method results in a greater incidence of secondary malignancy than IMRT. This risk was, however, emphasized by the use of older proton facility data which overestimate the neutron production from the aperture, and lack of acknowledgement of the decreased integral dose provided with protons [73]. Pencil-beam scanning, which generates less neutrons scattered, may significantly decrease the rates of secondary malignancy.
Simulations of CSI with both passively scattered and scanned-beam proton therapies reveal that the risk of secondary cancer is lower than conventional and intensity modulated photon therapies even when neutrons are taken into account [74].
Limitations of Proton Beam Therapy
Currently, the major limitation of PT in pediatric patients is that many proton centers are not hospital-based and unable to accommodate children who require daily anesthesia. Only recently PT has become available in dedicated clinical centers devoted to treatment and furnished by modern delivery systems (i.e. gantry rooms) and not in physical laboratories for limited periods of time during the year.
Another problem is the high cost of PT centers which range from US $25 million to $150 million, depending on the unit and number of treatment gantries installed. The issue of whether the cost of proton therapy is justified has only recently been raised, but if it is like other technologies, the high capital and maintenance costs are likely to come down in the future are innovations progress. Additionally, if one chooses appropriate patients (such as children with curable tumors) and factors in the benefits to the patients of fewer and less serious late effects of treatment, the treatments are likely to prove cost effective in the long run [75].
Multiple radiation options exist for pediatric patients, including 3D conformal photon radiotherapy, IMRT, and now, proton beam radiotherapy. The dosimetric advantages of protons which substantially decrease the radiation dose to normal tissues, promise important clinical benefits in childhood cancer survivors, by maintaining tumor control, while decreasing the deleterious late effects of radiation therapy as well as the incidence of radiation induced secondary malignancies. The medical literature is now populated with several manuscripts on the early clinical outcomes showing the real benefits of PT with regards to improved quality of life, and health outcomes. As new centers become more readily available around the world, pediatric patients with solid tumors should take precedence in receiving PT as solid tumors in childhood are more curable than adult tumors and the side effects in children due to dose to non target tissues are far graver. Additional studies with longer follow-up time will be coming soon to even better document the ameliorated long-term morbidity and the risk of secondary tumors after proton therapy.
Ries LAG, Melbert D, Krapcho M (2007) SEER Cancer Statistics Review, 1975–2004. Bethesda, MD: National Cancer Institute.
Taylor AJ, Little MP, Winter DL, Sugden E, Ellison DW, et al. (2010) Population-based risks of CNS tumors in survivors of childhood cancer: the British Childhood Cancer Survivor Study. J Clin Oncol 28: 5287-5293.
Ishida Y, Sakamoto N, Kamibeppu K, Kakee N, Iwai T, et al. (2010) Late effects and quality of life of childhood cancer survivors: Part 2. Impact of radiotherapy. Int J Hematol 92: 95-104.
Suit H (2002) The Gray Lecture 2001: coming technical advances in radiation oncology. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 53: 798-809.
Schneider U, Lomax A, Lombriser N (2000) Comparative risk assessment of secondary cancer incidence after treatment of Hodgkin's disease with photon and proton radiation. Radiat Res 154: 382-388.
Paganetti H, Niemierko A, Ancukiewicz M, Gerweck LE, Goitein M, et al. (2002) Relative biological effectiveness (RBE) values for proton beam therapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 53: 407-421.
Estimated by CBTRUS using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program (www.seer.cancer.gov) SEER*Stat Database: Incidence - SEER 17 Regs Limited–Use, Nov 2008 Sub (1973–2006), National Cancer Institute.
Mostow EN, Byrne J, Connelly RR, Mulvihill JJ (1991) Quality of life in long-term survivors of CNS tumors of childhood and adolescence. J Clin Oncol 9: 592-599.
Palmer SL, Goloubeva O, Reddick WE, Glass JO, Gajjar A, et al. (2001) Patterns of intellectual development among survivors of pediatric medulloblastoma: a longitudinal analysis. J Clin Oncol 19: 2302-2308.
Kuhlthau KA, Pulsifer MB, Yeap BY, Rivera Morales D, Delahaye J, et al. (2012) Prospective study of health-related quality of life for children with brain tumors treated with proton radiotherapy. J Clin Oncol 30: 2079-2086.
Viswanathan V, Pradhan KR, Eugster EA (2011) Pituitary hormone dysfunction after proton beam radiation therapy in children with brain tumors. Endocr Pract 17: 891-896.
Merchant TE, Kun LE, Wu S, Xiong X, Sanford RA, et al. (2009) Phase II trial of conformal radiation therapy for pediatric low-grade glioma. J Clin Oncol 27: 3598-3604.
Hug EB, Muenter MW, Archambeau JO, DeVries A, Liwnicz B, et al. (2002) Conformal proton radiation therapy for pediatric low-grade astrocytomas. Strahlenther Onkol 178: 10-17.
Packer RJ, Savino PJ, Bilaniuk LT, Zimmerman RA, Schatz NJ, et al. (1983) Chiasmatic gliomas of childhood. A reappraisal of natural history and effectiveness of cranial irradiation. Childs Brain 10: 393-403.
Rosenstock JG, Packer RJ, Bilaniuk L, Bruce DA, Radcliffe JL, et al. (1985) Chiasmatic optic glioma treated with chemotherapy. A preliminary report. J Neurosurg 63: 862-866.
Kestle JR, Hoffman HJ, Mock AR (1993) Moyamoya phenomenon after radiation for optic glioma. J Neurosurg 79: 32-35.
Fuss M, Hug EB, Schaefer RA, Nevinny-Stickel M, Miller DW, et al. (1999) Proton radiation therapy (PRT) for pediatric optic pathway gliomas: comparison with 3D planned conventional photons and a standard photon technique. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 45: 1117-1126.
https://members.childrensoncologygroup.org/Prot/ACNS0232/acns0232doc.pdf.
Aoyama H, Shirato H, Ikeda J, Fujieda K, Miyasaka K, et al. (2002) Induction chemotherapy followed by low-dose involved-field radiotherapy for intracranial germ cell tumors. J Clin Oncol 20: 857-865.
Allen JC, DaRosso RC, Donahue B, Nirenberg A (1994) A phase II trial of preirradiation carboplatin in newly diagnosed germinoma of the central nervous system. Cancer 74: 940-944.
Shirato H, Aoyama H, Ikeda J, Fujieda K, Kato N, et al. (2004) Impact of margin for target volume in low-dose involved field radiotherapy after induction chemotherapy for intracranial germinoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 60: 214-217.
Calaminus G, Kortmann R, Worch J, Nicholson JC, Alapetite C, et al (2013) SIOP CNS GCT 96: final report of outcome of a prospective, multinational nonrandomized trial for children and adults with intracranial germinoma, comparing craniospinal irradiation alone with chemotherapy followed by focal primary site irradiation for patients with localized disease. Neuro Oncol 15: 788-796.
MacDonald SM, Trofimov A, Safai S, Adams J, Fullerton B, et al. (2011) Proton radiotherapy for pediatric central nervous system germ cell tumors: early clinical outcomes. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 79: 121-129.
Taylor RE, Bailey CC, Robinson K, Weston CL, Ellison D, et al (2003) Results of a randomized study of pre-radiation chemotherapy versus radiotherapy alone for nonmetastatic medulloblastoma: The International Society of Paediatric Oncology/United Kingdom Children's Cancer Study Group PNET-3. J Clin Oncol 21: 1581-1591.
Packer RJ, Sutton LN, Elterman R, Lange B, Goldwein J, et al. (1994) Outcome for children with medulloblastoma treated with radiation and cisplatin, CCNU, and vincristine chemotherapy. J Neurosurg 81: 690-698.
Lin R, Hug EB, Schaefer RA, Miller DW, Slater JM, et al (2000) Conformal proton radiation therapy of the posterior fossa: a study comparing protons with three-dimensional planned photons in limiting dose to auditory structures. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 48: 1219-1226.
Lee CT, Bilton SD, Famiglietti RM, Riley BA, Mahajan A, et al. (2005) Treatment planning with protons for pediatric retinoblastoma, medulloblastoma, and pelvic sarcoma: how do protons compare with other conformal techniques? Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 63: 362-372.
Mulhern RK, Kepner JL, Thomas PR, Armstrong FD, Friedman HS, et al. (1998) Neuropsychologic functioning of survivors of childhood medulloblastoma randomized to receive conventional or reduced-dose craniospinal irradiation: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. J Clin Oncol 16: 1723-1728.
Pulsifer MB, Delgado I, Tarbell N (2010) Neurocognitive outcomes after proton radiation for pediatric brain tumors. J Clin Oncol 28:15s.
Huang E, Teh BS, Strother DR, Davis QG, Chiu JK, et al. (2002) Intensity-modulated radiation therapy for pediatric medulloblastoma: early report on the reduction of ototoxicity. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 52: 599-605.
Miettinen S, Laurikainen E, Johansson R, Minn H, Laurell G, et al. (1997) Radiotherapy enhanced ototoxicity of cisplatin in children. Acta Otolaryngol Suppl 529: 90-94.
St Clair WH, Adams JA, Bues M, Fullerton BC, La Shell S, et al. (2004) Advantage of protons compared to conventional X-ray or IMRT in the treatment of a pediatric patient with medulloblastoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 58: 727-734.
Yuh GE, Loredo LN, Yonemoto LT, Bush DA, Shahnazi K, et al. (2004) Reducing toxicity from craniospinal irradiation: using proton beams to treat medulloblastoma in young children. Cancer J 10: 386-390.
Merchant TE, Mulhern RK, Krasin MJ, Kun LE, Williams T, et al. (2004) Preliminary results from a phase II trial of conformal radiation therapy and evaluation of radiation-related CNS effects for pediatric patients with localized ependymoma. J Clin Oncol 22: 3156-3162.
MacDonald SM, Safai S, Trofimov A, Wolfgang J, Fullerton B, et al. (2008) Proton radiotherapy for childhood ependymoma: initial clinical outcomes and dose comparisons. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 71: 979-986.
Amsbaugh MJ, Grosshans DR, McAleer MF, Zhu R, Wages C, et al. (2012) Proton therapy for spinal ependymomas: planning, acute toxicities, and preliminary outcomes. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 83: 1419-1424.
Winkfield KM, Tsai HK, Yao X, Larson E, Neuberg D, et al. (2011) Long-term clinical outcomes following treatment of childhood craniopharyngioma. Pediatr Blood Cancer 56: 1120-1126.
Luu QT, Loredo LN, Archambeau JO, Yonemoto LT, Slater JM, et al. (2006) Fractionated proton radiation treatment for pediatric craniopharyngioma: preliminary report. Cancer J 12: 155-159.
Winkfield KM, Linsenmeier C, Yock TI, Grant PE, Yeap BY, et al. (2009) Surveillance of craniopharyngioma cyst growth in children treated with proton radiotherapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 73: 716-721.
Merchant TE, Kun LE, Hua CH, Wu S, Xiong X, et al. (2013) Disease control after reduced volume conformal and intensity modulated radiation therapy for childhood craniopharyngioma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 85: e187-192.
Fitzek MM, Linggood RM, Adams J, Munzenrider JE (2006) Combined proton and photon irradiation for craniopharyngioma: long-term results of the early cohort of patients treated at Harvard Cyclotron Laboratory and Massachusetts General Hospital. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 64: 1348-1354.
Laffond C, Dellatolas G, Alapetite C, Puget S, Grill J, et al. (2012) Quality-of-life, mood and executive functioning after childhood craniopharyngioma treated with surgery and proton beam therapy. Brain Inj 26: 270-281.
Hoch BL, Nielsen GP, Liebsch NJ, Rosenberg AE (2006) Base of skull chordomas in children and adolescents: a clinicopathologic study of 73 cases. Am J Surg Pathol 30: 811-818.
Gadwal SR, Fanburg-Smith JC, Gannon FH, Thompson LD (2000) Primary chondrosarcoma of the head and neck in pediatric patients: a clinicopathologic study of 14 cases with a review of the literature. Cancer 88: 2181-2188.
Munzenrider JE, Liebsch NJ (1999) Proton therapy for tumors of the skull base. Strahlenther Onkol 175 Suppl 2: 57-63.
Ares C, Hug EB, Lomax AJ, Bolsi A, Timmermann B, et al. (2009) Effectiveness and safety of spot scanning proton radiation therapy for chordomas and chondrosarcomas of the skull base: first long-term report. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 75: 1111-1118.
Benk V, Liebsch NJ, Munzenrider JE, Efird J, McManus P, et al. (1995) Base of skull and cervical spine chordomas in children treated by high-dose irradiation. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 31: 577-581.
Habrand JL, Schneider R, Alapetite C, Feuvret L, Petras S, et al. (2008) Proton therapy in pediatric skull base and cervical canal low-grade bone malignancies. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 71: 672-675.
Hug EB, Sweeney RA, Nurre PM, Holloway KC, Slater JD, et al. (2002) Proton radiotherapy in management of pediatric base of skull tumors. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 52: 1017-1024.
Rombi B, Ares C, Hug EB, Schneider R, Goitein G, et al. (2013) Spot-scanning proton radiation therapy for pediatric chordoma and chondrosarcoma: clinical outcome of 26 patients treated at paul scherrer institute. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 86: 578-584.
Wong FL, Boice JD Jr, Abramson DH, Tarone RE, Kleinerman RA, et al. (1997) Cancer incidence after retinoblastoma. Radiation dose and sarcoma risk. JAMA 278: 1262-1267.
Kleinerman RA, Tucker MA, Tarone RE, Abramson DH, Seddon JM, et al. (2005) Risk of new cancers after radiotherapy in long-term survivors of retinoblastoma: an extended follow-up. J Clin Oncol 23: 2272-2279.
Krengli M, Hug EB, Adams JA, Smith AR, Tarbell NJ, et al. (2005) Proton radiation therapy for retinoblastoma: comparison of various intraocular tumor locations and beam arrangements. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 61: 583-593.
Schipper J, Tan KE, van Peperzeel HA (1985) Treatment of retinoblastoma by precision megavoltage radiation therapy. Radiother Oncol 3: 117-132.
Timmermann B, Schuck A, Niggli F, Weiss M, Lomax AJ, et al. (2007) Spot-scanning proton therapy for malignant soft tissue tumors in childhood: First experiences at the Paul Scherrer Institute. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 67: 497-504.
Bacci G, Picci P, Gherlinzoni F, Capanna R, Calderoni P, et al. (1985) Localized Ewing's sarcoma of bone: ten years' experience at the Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli in 124 cases treated with multimodal therapy. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol 21: 163-173.
Craft AW, Cotterill SJ, Bullimore JA, Pearson D (1997) Long-term results from the first UKCCSG Ewing's Tumour Study (ET-1). United Kingdom Children's Cancer Study Group (UKCCSG) and the Medical Research Council Bone Sarcoma Working Party. Eur J Cancer 33: 1061-1069.
Rombi B, DeLaney TF, MacDonald SM, Huang MS, Ebb DH, et al. (2012) Proton radiotherapy for pediatric Ewing's sarcoma: initial clinical outcomes. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 82: 1142-1148.
Heyn R, Ragab A, Raney RB Jr, Ruymann F, Tefft M, et al. (1986) Late effects of therapy in orbital rhabdomyosarcoma in children. A report from the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study. Cancer 57: 1738-1743.
Raney RB, Anderson JR, Kollath J, Vassilopoulou-Sellin R, Klein MJ, et al. (2000) Late effects of therapy in 94 patients with localized rhabdomyosarcoma of the orbit: Report from the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study (IRS)-III, 1984-1991. Med Pediatr Oncol 34: 413-420.
Yock T, Schneider R, Friedmann A, Adams J, Fullerton B, et al. (2005) Proton radiotherapy for orbital rhabdomyosarcoma: clinical outcome and a dosimetric comparison with photons. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 63: 1161-1168.
Kozak KR, Adams J, Krejcarek SJ, Tarbell NJ, Yock TI (2009) A dosimetric comparison of proton and intensity-modulated photon radiotherapy for pediatric parameningeal rhabdomyosarcomas. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 74: 179-186.
Childs SK, Kozak KR, Friedmann AM, Yeap BY, Adams J, et al. (2012) Proton radiotherapy for parameningeal rhabdomyosarcoma: clinical outcomes and late effects. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 82: 635-642.
Cotter SE, Herrup DA, Friedmann A, Macdonald SM, Pieretti RV, et al (2011) Proton radiotherapy for pediatric bladder/prostate rhabdomyosarcoma: clinical outcomes and dosimetry compared to intensity-modulated radiation therapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 81: 1367-1373.
George RE, Li S, Medeiros-Nancarrow C, Neuberg D, Marcus K, et al. (2006) High-risk neuroblastoma treated with tandem autologous peripheral-blood stem cell-supported transplantation: long-term survival update. J Clin Oncol 24: 2891-2896.
Hattangadi JA, Rombi B, Yock TI, Broussard G, Friedmann AM, et al. (2012) Proton radiotherapy for high-risk pediatric neuroblastoma: early outcomes and dose comparison. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 83: 1015-1022.
Hug EB, Nevinny-Stickel M, Fuss M, Miller DW, Schaefer RA, et al. (2001) Conformal proton radiation treatment for retroperitoneal neuroblastoma: introduction of a novel technique. Med Pediatr Oncol 37: 36-41.
Miralbell R, Lomax A, Cella L, Schneider U (2002) Potential reduction of the incidence of radiation-induced second cancers by using proton beams in the treatment of pediatric tumors. Int J Radiat Oncol Bio Phys 54: 824-829.
Hall EJ (2006) Intensity-modulated radiation therapy, protons, and the risk of second cancers. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 65: 1-7.
Paganetti H, Bortfeld T, Delaney TF (2006) Neutron dose in proton radiation therapy: in regard to Eric J. Hall (Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006;65:1-7). Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 66: 1594-1595.
Newhauser WD, Fontenot JD, Mahajan A, Kornguth D, Stovall M, et al. (2009) The risk of developing a second cancer after receiving craniospinal proton irradiation. Phys Med Biol 54: 2277-2291.
Lundkvist J, Ekman M, Ericsson SR, Jönsson B, Glimelius B (2005) Cost-effectiveness of proton radiation in the treatment of childhood medulloblastoma. Cancer 103: 793-801.
3 Lessons From Finding Community Support for Chronic Illness - Chronic Illness
Posted In Awareness, Chronic Illness, Research, TipsTagged In 3 Lessons From Finding Community Support for Chronic Illness
Ask most anyone with a chronic illness and they will tell you just how isolating and lonely it is. If we allow ourselves, we can become silos where we begin to think no one knows or understands what we're going through.
Find out how finding community support for chronic illness can support you when you're down.
This month, I was so excited to find Sheryl over at A Chronic Voice. Once a month, she hosts a 'linkup party' where chronic illness bloggers share their personal stories for multiple different prompts.
This amazing opportunity allows us to read about and understand the lives of others who are living with chronic illness. Mostly, it allows us to feel, even for a little while, like we're not alone in our fight.
I look forward to sharing my personal story with you. And be sure to click through to the October home page where you can find blog posts of others who have shared their stories.
This isn't just for me, though. I want to help you, too.
Find community support for your chronic illness in the wide world of the internet
Feel like you're not alone in your struggles
At the end, I'll share three valuable lessons with you to help you through rough times. You can also read these bible verses if you're looking for comfort during the hard times.
Without further ado, here we go! My response to the first prompt is a little long, but it feeds directly into the second two, so stick with me!
Finding a community like you
This one is particularly poignant for me as I am mentally working through 'parting' from my career in the professional setting.
It wasn't that long ago that I was the director of our county's election division. I had participated in or directly oversaw the operation of more than 20 local, state, and federal elections. It was a job that I truly LOVED!
However, I had also developed Fibromyalgia, CFS, POTS, and a particularly nasty migraine disorder. I knew the stress of the job was not sustainable so I made the heartbreaking decision to change jobs.
And luckily, I found another job I LOVED as an evidence technician at our county's sheriff's office. A short year later, though, it had become obvious to my husband and I that I need to make dramatic changes to my stress level if I was going to be able to live my life in any reasonable way.
As someone who built a lot of self-worth into my accomplishments and abilities at work, my pride has taken a massive blow because of this 'parting'.
However, I'm now happily pursuing my passion for supporting women with chronic illness (as well as stepmothers) to live their lives to the best of their ability. So, for all the negative emotion this parting has caused, it has opened up doors that I didn't think were possible a few months ago.
Additionally, the improvement in my physical and mental health is absolutely remarkable! I am still mourning the loss of my previous careers, but I'm celebrating the bright future it has brought.
As mentioned previously, I recently found myself in a position where I was completely re-inventing my future.
With nothing but an idea and a little hope, I started The Winding Willows. And let me tell you, there is a lot that goes into starting a blog.
And it's not easy for an introvert to share so much of themselves to other people. It helps that I'm doing it remotely through the medium of writing.
Additionally, I'm about 99% sure I'm working more hours now that I was before I resigned my job. But I can say with absolute certainty that I'm enjoying this season of persevering.
I love a good challenge. And I love being able to work in my own environment and take a sick day if I need it. Without the guilt!
See also God Asks A Full Surrender from Us
I have never been a fan of change for change's sake. I enjoy re-evaluating and improving. Re-arranging to make something work or feel better is a specialty of mine. But I don't like giving something up just to see what happens.
And that is what giving up my job felt like. I was giving up something important that I loved in the hopes of finding improvements in my health.
It so happens that I did find those improvements. But I didn't know I would at the time. And I definitely knew that we were going to be cutting it tight, family-budget-wise.
So imagine my surprise in finding that I am loving this season of change.
I'm loving my health improvements.
I'm loving having emotional energy to invest in my family.
And I'm loving investing time and energy into building a platform I believe in.
So instead of calling this the season of change, I'm calling it the season of love!
So, you've read this whole post and hopefully found some amount of support in the community of chronic illness that you can associate with. Specifically, that people in the chronic illness community know what you're going through because they've dealt with it, too.
Maybe my struggle in finding my new future resonates with you.
Or perhaps you have been persevering through a new challenge.
Whatever the case is, I think there are lessons to learn when working through exercises like this. For example, I didn't realize, until writing this, how grateful I am for a situation that seemed pretty bleak in the beginning.
When we're struggling or having a bad day, I hope we can remember these things:
Parting (or closed doors) can lead to happy endings
Persevering doesn't have to be painful. It can even be fun
You can find something to love in life even when it doesn't seem likely
If nothing else, maybe we can work through this exercise if we're particularly struggling. I know I certainly will be.
Don't forget to click through to read other's responses to these prompts.
You can follow me on Facebook to read about and interact with other chronic illness fighters! We're all about community support for Chronic Illness!
Canadian Association of Cardiovascular Prevention & Rehabilitation Volunteer Committee Descriptions Membership
Knowledge Transfer Chairperson - Darren Warburton The goal is to facilitate knowledge translation and continuous development of professionals in cardiac rehabilitation through varied means including the annual symposium, systematic reviews, web education, online resources, and guideline clinical tools.
CV Edge Publication Chairperson – Warner Mampuya The bilingual publication entitled Current Issues in Cardiac Rehabilitation and Prevention (CICRP) is written by CACPR members for CACPR members. Each issue translates current research into practice drawing upon the experiences of cardiac rehabilitation programs active in the area of each specific theme. Research
Chairperson – Ilka Lowensteyn The goals is to encourage and foster research in cardiac rehabilitation by providing national leadership and focus in promotion and coordination of research initiatives related to cardiac rehabilitation and secondary prevention. The primary responsibility is to provide a peer-review of abstracts for orals and poster presentations at the CACPR Annual Meeting and Symposium and to select the annual winners of the Graduate Scholarship Awards. Marketing
Chairperson - Vacant The goal of the Marketing Committee is to develop and pursue long term funding for the Association and its activities including the Conference, Canadian Cardiac Rehab Registry, webinars, systematic reviews and overall sustainability of the association. This opportunity opens doors for potential support for local programs through your efforts in assisting CACPR. No marketing experience necessary! CCRR Data Transfer Verification Sub-Committee
The CCRR Data Transfer Compatibility Verification Committee is responsible for reviewing applications submitted by organizations with electronic data capture systems for compatibility with the CCRR. The goal is to have compatibility between the CCRR and as many electronica data capture systems as possible so as to maximize uploading of CR patient data. Volunteers for this Committee need not have an IT background, but rather be process and detail oriented in order to apply the established Data Transfer Compatibility Verification process.
CACPR Registry Project (CCRR) Chairperson – Paul Oh The goal of the CACPR Registry Project is to develop a national database of cardiac rehabilitation patient data to: enable CR programs to benchmark performance; to facilitate guideline adherence and in turn, improve patient outcomes; to build research support for CR program outcomes and to influence health policy. The CCRR Committee is responsible for the overall development, promotion and management of the CCRR.
