Buy Lansoprazole 15 mg Online, which is Gastro Health medication, and it contains Lansoprazole. Lansoprazole Capsules are prescribed by the doctor to those who are suffering from stomach ulcers, Gastroesophageal reflux disease(GERD) and other acidity related disorders.
Buy Lansoprazole 15 mg Online, which is used to lower the amount of acid produced in your stomach. Lansoprazole 15 mg is used to treat acid reflux, heartburn, and problems with your esophagus. Lan 15 mg helps in reducing the acid produced in the stomach. Lansoprazole Capsule is also used for the prevention and treatment of stomach ulcers.
Lansoprazole 15 mg is advised that before taking this medicine, tell your doctor if you have any liver or kidney problem. The patient is advised to take this drug as per the doctor’s prescribed time and dose. You cannot chew or crush it. Instead, you have to swallow it whole. Lan 15 mg can be taken with or without food but should be taken on a fixed time. If you have been taking Lansoprazole Capsules for an extended period, your physician may perform routine tests to check the levels of magnesium that may fall due to this medicine.
Some side effects of Lansoprazole 15 mg are an irregular heartbeat, decreased appetite, severe stomach ache, nausea, vomiting, flu, muscle or joint pain, diarrhea, allergic skin reaction, bleeding, headache, flatulence.
Halted the indications (indigestion and reflux) quickly and totally. No symptoms. For me, a miracle pill.

A team of Princeton University scientists may have found a better way to make a vaccine against the flu virus, researchers say.
Though theoretical, the work points to the critical importance of what has been a poorly appreciated aspect of the interaction between a virus and those naturally produced defensive proteins called antibodies that fight infection.
By manipulating the multi-stage interactive process --known as antibody interference -- to advantage, the scientists believe it may be possible to design more powerful vaccines than exist today.
Dr. Jason M. Tartagni, DMD - Dental Hygienist, Dentist, Pediatric Dentist - Appointments
Dentist Near Me / West Haven Dentist / Dr. Jason M. Tartagni, DMD
Dr. Tartagni received his undergraduate degree from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA. He went on to receive a Master's degree in physiology and biophysics from Georgetown University and worked as a member of scientific research teams at Yale University and Penn State University. Dr. Tartagni chose to practice here at Shoreline Dental Care because of a shared belief with his father, Dr. Joseph Tartagni, in providing state of the art, relationship-based, comprehensive care that is tailored to fit the lifestyles of his patients. His professional interests include cosmetic dentistry, full mouth rehabilitation, dental implants, and the link between oral and systemic health.
Services: - Cosmetic Dentistry - Restorative Dentistry and Dental Implants - Sedation Dentistry - Comprehensive Orthodontics - Invisalign - Six Month Braces - Family and Pediatric Dentistry - Laser Dentistry - Patient Comfort and Technology - Crowns - Porcelain Veneers
Rehab Drug Centers near Eildon VIC 3713
The next locations are some of the non-profit centers in Eildon VIC 3713 out there that you can attend and acquire good treatment at an inexpensive price. These stores provide treatment program for residential along with short stay patients. The people in these stores are extremely loyal and can do everything they're able to to help you through the procedure to become drug free. If you would like to learn a true rehab center, it have to be one that offers a complete cure to your drug addiction problem. Consequently, you're directly to search for cheap rehabilitation centers. Usually, these treatment centers are very expensive. Needless to say it's easier to choose the therapy center that provides specialized treatment according to the problem of the individual.
In today's overly busy lifestyle, when people get burdened having a selection of problems, they begin using medicines to have immediate comfort. There is furthermore, the issue of treating drug users that are greatly dependent on narcotics like heroin, opiods or injectable tranquilizers. Contact 888-749-0064 to talk to a professional to learn more on what it is possible to deal with your addiction problems. Callup 888-749-0064 to speak to an expert for more information on what it is possible to cope with your dependency issues. Today it is regarded as a significant health problems and is treated as a result. It-not just causes health related problems but additionally social issues. As stated, one concern requires the necessity to take more medicine as a result of improving threshold which advances the possibility for overdose in Eildon VIC 3713.
There are numerous alcohol rehab facilities available but you must choose the the one which give professional services at affordable rates. No, therapy isn't for quitters. It could be the utmost effective course of action when looking to overcome an addiction. Locating the greatest drug treatment can seem overwhelming. Drug addiction treatment may appear in various options, in several various types, and for various measures of time. Drug detox will be the most important section of becoming clear of habit, also it ought to be managed meticulously. The diet of the patient throughout the rehab process is among the crucial elements of treatment, creating a very balanced a supplement -rich diet.
Over a period of period, using psychotropic medications becomes an habitual act. Accordingto current stories many people have already been treated with all the help of latest techniques recommended by these therapy programs. You will need assistance from specialists in Eildon VIC 3713 as possible just get from good-and reliable facilities. Finally, be warned that you will certainly need the advice of your physician who's in a specialist place to suggest the top drug therapy treatment center for you.[google-map location="Eildon VIC"]
Alcohol abuse is among the most typical public health conditions. Substance abuse, whether it is to improve the performance of your body or utilizing a recreational drug to have substantial, has to be stopped for your drug user's own good. It's the absolute most deadly form of drug abuse.[weather city="Eildon" state="Victoria"]
People use drugs for various reasons. Several drugs are now abused, which are not proposed by any doctor. Various medications and liquor have different effects to the body and intellect exactly like specific individuals are vulnerable to reliance to specific elements. The alcohol has euphoric effects to the human body at initial phases. Consequently, our liquor and drug treatment system and daily agenda will certainly differ based on each individual's own unique requirements.[ssvideo keyword="Alcohol Addiction" title="Drug And Alcohol Rehab in Eildon"]
Remember, fans are ill people. Alcohol addiction is one of many more widespread habits outthere and can be dealt with the assistance of Cleansing facilities. Medicine and alcohol addiction are hard to assess for friends and family. It's important to discuss a little something about drug addiction before moving forward to addiction treatments. Drug addiction often leads to issues in someone's associations. Within our culture, it's one of the most typical conditions that folks are experiencing these days. Teenage drug addiction can be a problem that will not be dismissed.
In addition to the detoxification, you'll find so many methods involved in the treatment also. Their treatment is through counter medicine. This remedy should deal with your body, soul and spirit. The actual therapy begins after the detox process is finished. It usually lasts for a the least 1-month. Youths drug therapy must be behavior bearing in mind the unique needs and specifications of teenagers in Eildon VIC 3713.
Patients spend a great deal of time joining prayer sessions and lessons, together with remedy and medical sessions. Often the individual must live in the center to get a short duration. The initial step is obtained from the individual. However, it is always smart to talk to a medical doctor before getting any new medicine, to be sure there is no drug interaction.
Addiction Treatment Centers Eildon VIC 3713, Alcohol Abuse Eildon VIC 3713, Alcohol Addiction Eildon VIC 3713, Alcohol Dependence Eildon VIC 3713, Alcohol Detox Eildon VIC 3713, Alcohol Rehab Eildon VIC 3713, Alcohol Treatment Centers Eildon VIC 3713, Alcohol Withdrawal Eildon VIC 3713, Alcoholic Eildon VIC 3713, Drug Addiction Eildon VIC 3713, Drug And Alcohol Rehab Eildon VIC 3713, Drug Detox Eildon VIC 3713, Drug Rehab Centers Eildon VIC 3713, Drug Rehab Eildon VIC 3713, Drug Treatment Centers Eildon VIC 3713, Inpatient Drug Rehab Eildon VIC 3713, Rehab Facilities Eildon VIC 3713, Rehabilitation Center Eildon VIC 3713, Substance Abuse Eildon VIC 3713, Substance Abuse Treatment Eildon VIC 3713
You can select one or more of the change ideas or tools below and use this PDSA worksheet to help test your change ideas. You can learn to select the most appropriate process indicators by reading this Measurement Guide.
To prioritize a change idea to include in your QIP, consider choosing one that addresses a known gap within your care team (i.e., ensuring care teams have confidence to have difficult conversations); standardizes or enhances an existing process (i.e., choosing an early identification tool and developing a process to identify); and/or provides an opportunity to build greater patient and caregiver engagement (i.e., create a palliative care plan to support patients and caregivers).
Palliative Care for Adults with a Progressive, Life-Limiting Illness Quality Standard by Health Quality Ontario
o	Use flags in EMR when changes in medical or functional status occurs to prompt clinicians to screen or re-screen for palliative care needs
Support health care providers in communicating with patients and their families about palliative care
Lifting the Veil of Depression - ABC News
According to the National Institute of Mental Health, more than 21 million Americans suffer from some kind of depressive disorder. For about 4 million of the most severe cases, no treatment can help. But there is a promising experimental therapy now in clinical trials that, in essence, "rewires" the brain. It is most definitely medicine on the cutting edge.
Click here for deep brain stimulation clinical trials for treatment resistant depression.
Click here for clinical trials for severe depression.
"You felt like a dead person walking. There was just nothing left in me," Hire told ABC News. "I had no emotion left. I had no energy left. I had nothing. I was an empty shell of a person."
She was prescribed one anti-depressant after another, as well as psychotherapy. Nothing worked. She tried to commit suicide three times.
"It was unbearable. It was just unbearable." she said. "You start to feel that your friends and family would be better off without you." Hire reasoned, "There's just not anything that's going to change. So why live like this?"
Finally, her psychiatrist suggested a radically different, experimental treatment: deep brain stimulation, the same procedure that's been used safely for two decades to calm the tremors of Parkinson's disease and is now being tested on severe depression.
Using a brain model, Dr. Ali Rezai, a neurosurgeon at the Cleveland Clinic and lead investigator of the clinical trial for this treatment, showed ABC News how deep brain stimulation works.
"We slowly advance this probe into the brain," he said, "and it goes to the precise location where there's abnormal activity going on resulting in depression. ... [Then] we activate it by inserting tiny electrical pulses."
The pulses are mild enough so that the patient does not feel anything, but they're powerful enough to change a patient's mood.
With Hire's head immobilized in a brace and electrodes deep inside her brain, doctors start adding those electrical "pulses" to her brain. Diane feels the effects immediately.
"I'm starting to smile. I'm so happy," she said.
Minutes later, doctors increase the electrical intensity, and her mood improves further. Hire smiles, saying, "I feel good." She tells the surgeons she cannot remember the last time she felt like this.
Then, when doctors add more of the mild, electrical pulses, Hire laughs. "I just feel happier."
To keep her depression-free, doctors implant two battery-powered pacemakers in her chest with wires running under her skin to that spot deep inside her brain.
Today, Diane walks 50 miles a week and is eager to be around friends and family.
"They didn't create a new person. And they're not manipulating my mind," she is quick to point out. "This is me."
This clinical trial using deep brain stimulation to treat depression began at the Cleveland Clinic in 2003. Brown University Medical Center and Massachusetts General Hospital are also now testing this approach. According to the most recent data presented at a neurological conference in Chicago last month, eight of the 17 patients treated with deep brain stimulation have seen significant improvement.
Another clinical trial using the same treatment but focusing on a different target area in the brain is being conducted at the University of Toronto and Emory University. Several more years of testing, on both approaches, are still required before doctors have enough data to submit to the Food and Drug Administration for approval.
"There is such a huge difference," said Diane. "I can jump out of bed and look forward to the day. And I never used to do that."
Find Betterhelp Uk Prescription – Affordable, private therapy – Health Tyson Group
Find Betterhelp Uk Prescription – Affordable, private therapy
Insurance coverage likewise will not…Betterhelp Uk Prescription… be an alternative. But, unless you have great insurance coverage with a low deductible, the cost of therapy will likely be an excellent value to you compared to options.
In a nutshell, BetterHelp is devoted to quality, personal privacy, and security– and it shows. Since BetterHelp does not work with insurance or employers, there isn't even a basic level of information-sharing between such entities, which means maximum privacy for you.
What is the BetterHelp debate? Betterhelp Uk Prescription
BetterHelp is the biggest online treatment platform worldwide. Advertisement tech professional, Alon Matas, founded the company in 2013 after looking for treatment for depression. He found out that the majority of people who require it weren't getting aid. Aspects such as lack of access, accessibility, expense, trouble, and fear make in-person therapy challenging for many people. Online therapy platforms like BetterHelp strive to offer a simpler, more comfortable, and more economical method to get assistance.
The demand for online treatment has actually skyrocketed in the last couple of years. According to the CDC, 40% of American grownups experienced psychological health or drug abuse problems during the coronavirus pandemic. It took a substantial toll on more youthful grownups, essential workers, people of color, and caregivers. While online treatment ended up being the only choice for the majority of during this time, positive experiences assisted many individuals recognize that it's a practical choice in a post-pandemic world, too.
Everyone can take advantage of talking with a therapist. Everyone faces obstacles in life that can get in the way of our joy or end up being roadblocks to our objectives. And often, when objectives themselves alter, we require help browsing and coping with difficult feelings.
BetterHelp therapists are all highly qualified to assist you as you look for to improve your life. The company likewise works with therapists who concentrate on specific locations of concern, consisting of but not limited to:
In addition to specific treatment, the BetterHelp homepage lists Couples and Teenager therapy options. Each of these services sends you to a sibling website when selected– Regain.us for couples and TeenCounseling.com for teenagers. Pricing for these services is similar to BetterHelp, and all therapists satisfy the same high standards and undergo the same rigorous screening. Betterhelp Uk Prescription
BetterHelp has a different website committed to LGBTQIA therapy, called Pride Counseling. Its services are just as structured and affordable as the parent business, however therapists with Pride Therapy concentrate on supplying treatment to people in the LGBTQIA neighborhood. Pride Therapy likewise safeguards your privacy and privacy as rigorously as BetterHelp.
maybe someone else that you have actually understood in the past great work ethic actually an assertive communicator simply appears typically like he knows what's going on with life has everything found out so now that we have these images in mind of someone with depression and somebody that apparently doesn't wish to move equipments a bit to talk to you about an operating alcoholic we have actually all heard this term so what does it indicate when we state someone's an operating alcoholic or usually describing somebody that probably does have some kind of problem with alcohol but they have the ability to maintain their job they're able to maintain relationships family however the problem I guess is that often they're unable to maintain those things in healthy methods and it's very difficult often to identify an operating alcoholic due to the fact that they have the ability to keep some aspects of their life together so jumping back to the initial subject here of somebody with high working depression otherwise called dysthymia it's really tough to determine these individuals often and sometimes it's us sometimes we can't even determine when it's us that we're experiencing these things so today again we want to talk about things that you can be searching for or things that you may have noticed in yourself that could be an indication that you're experiencing high-functioning anxiety so individuals with high-functioning anxiety or experiencing dysthymia are typically tough to recognize we're not seeing these overt qualities of a really depressed individual no catatonic states in fact individuals with high-functioning anxiety are often able to preserve truly healthy way of lives excellent relationships with other people which and it vertically almost makes the danger a bit scarier in a different sort of method why somebody with obvious symptoms of anything we can find them we can get them into some kind of services or try to help them as best as we can for individuals flying under the radar for people experiencing symptoms that we don't see it's truly difficult to recognize them and after that get them help it's actually tough to communicate to them that perhaps they must consider finding help for themselves so when we consider psychological health services in general there currently is a pretty huge stigma around this a great deal of individuals out there adults in the United States for example have a hard time seeking out treatment because of you understand the idea that if you seek out treatment you're insane or you can't deal with things on your own or something
Yes, BetterHelp is a legit, trustworthy company and a leader in online therapy with over 22,000 therapists and nearly 2 million patients up until now. Lots of people choose it to their standard in-person therapy. As a company, it appears to comprehend that trust is a crucial part to its success. The business guarantees:
The most important resource BetterHelp provides is its large variety of highly qualified therapists. Although it was acquired by Teladoc, Inc. in 2015, the company continues to use the exact same strenuous therapist application procedure in order to vet therapists and preserve quality. BetterHelp reports that only 15% of therapists who apply to the platform are authorized.
higher for them because they don't want to clue individuals in their lives in to the truth that they might be dealing with something or that they may require help with something therefore for people experiencing this we have a hard time finding them and they have a hard time finding help because you understand maybe some part of them does not really want to be determined where this other part does however we don't know how to discover them so what are we trying to find in order to determine whether we ourselves are having a hard time with this or somebody that we care about might be going through a tough time with this there are some things that you can be trying to find or tuning into in yourself to figure out whether you might be having some sort of obstacle with high operating depression so one of the first things to try to find is this basic sense of sadness returning to this image you might have of this depressed person you could be believing somebody weeping all day simply having a hard time with life slumped over catatonic even maybe stagnating very much you're not going to really see this with somebody with high working anxiety however rather like I stated a basic and subtle sense of unhappiness the majority of the time practically every day if not every day and it's a bit mysterious sometimes you can't actually inform where this sensation is coming from or pinpoint any particular trigger that hurt your feelings or anything like that some other things to be searching for and thinking of is the failure or you know the loss of capability to experience happiness loss of interests and things that you utilized to really find to be something that makes you feel great or bring some kind of complete satisfaction to your life you might likewise see decreased energy so like Betterhelp Uk Prescription.
I stated not necessarily not being able to get out of bed however simply lessened you feel fatigued a lot of the time where possibly before you didn't experience it that way other things to be trying to find is being really self-critical which results in perfectionism which can also contribute to blowing things out of proportion finding really small things in your life to develop into huge problems so I think there's a stating making a mountain out of a molehill a great deal of people fighting with high working depression experienced these things like I stated truly self-critical feeling a lot of guilt and shame about the past and even the future things that haven't even happened yet this is something that a lot of individuals couldn't be struggling with you may also be considering this depressed individual who appears unfortunate all the time however there's other sensations associated with anxiety.
Breast lump can be cancerous | Healthcare Blogs - Nayati Healthcare
When you feel a lump in your breast, it's understandable to be concerned. But don't jump to conclusions. Instead, take action i.e Call your doctor to find out what it is. Presentation-
Tests- Breast Self-Exam While some cancers are too tiny to feel, and most lumps aren't cancer, self-exams are a proactive way to help take care of yourself. Clinical Breast Exam A clinical breast exam is a breast exam performed by a health care professional. It's a basic part of women's check-ups, starting at age 20. Mammogram A mammogram is a special type of X-ray taken to look for abnormal growths or changes in breast tissue. Breast Ultrasound Doctors sometimes use ultrasound images to check whether a breast lump is a cyst (a fluid-filled sac that is not cancer) or a solid mass. Breast MRI MRI gives better information in dense breast. Breast Biopsy Sampling removes part of abnormal tissue for tissue diagnosis. Sentinel Node Biopsy In a sentinal node biopsy, doctors check a few lymph nodes under the arm to see if cancer has spread into the lymph system. Learn what's involved in a sentinel node biopsy. On the other hand, all lumps are not cancers; however the possibility of cancer must always be considered, as approximately 10% of all breast lumps are finally diagnosed as cancer. Also, make sure you haven't fallen for any of these 8 myths about breast lumps.
Most breast lumps women feel, 8 out of 10 are not cancer. It's more common for them to be a cyst (a sac) or a fibroadenoma (an abnormal growth that's not cancer). Some lumps come and go during a woman's menstrual cycle. You can't tell what it is by how it feels. "It's always important to know your own body and detect a change which may need to be evaluated,"
Myth 2: If You Have a Lump but Your Mammogram Is Normal You're Done
Although breast cancers aren't always painful, having doesn't rule out cancer. Inflammatory breast cancer - which has early symptoms such as redness, swelling, tenderness, and warmth in the breast -- can be painful when there is a lump.
Though breastfeeding does make you less likely to get breast cancer, it can still happen. If you notice a lump while you're breastfeeding, don't ignore it. You may get an ultrasound to check it out.
Myth 5: If You are Young, a Breast Lump Can't Be Cancer
At any age, you should get breast lumps checked out by a doctor. Even though most women who get breast cancer are post menopauseor older than 50, a lump can be cancer, even in a younger woman.
Breast lumps occurs in all sizes, and size doesn't affect the odds that it's cancer.Whenever you feel a lump that's new or unusual, even if it's tiny, see your doctor. Even small lumps can be aggressive cancers.
Call your doctor if you notice a lump soon after your latest mammogram, even if the results were normal. Mammograms can miss some cancers, especially if you have dense breast tissue or if the lump is in an awkward location (such as near your armpit).The doctor should only suggest a 'watch-and-wait' approach after the appropriate breast imaging has been normal and nothing suspicious can be felt.
Many women think they're not at risk for breast cancer if no one in their family has had it. But that's not true.Less than 15% of women with breast cancer have a relative who's had the disease.Get all lumps checked by a doctor, whether or not breast cancer runs in your families.
UGA : AHRC : Ted M. Ross
Professor, GRA Eminent Scholar of Infectious Disease
About Ted M. Ross
Ted M. Ross, Ph.D. is the Director of the Center for Vaccines and Immunology and Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar and Professor of Infectious Diseases at the University of Georgia. Dr. Ross earned his undergraduate and graduate studies in Zoology and Microbiology at the University of Arkansas and he received a Doctorate in Microbiology and Immunology from Vanderbilt University in 1996. He was awarded the inaugural Sidney P. Colowick Award in Outstanding Graduate Research while at Vanderbilt. Dr. Ross performed post-doctoral fellowships at Duke University on HIV biology of viral entry and at Emory University on vaccine development for HIV and influenza viruses. He then started his own laboratory as Principal Investigator at East Carolina University and in 2003 moved the laboratory to the University of Pittsburgh in the Departments of Medicine-Infectious Diseases, Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, and as a founding member of the Center for Vaccine Research where he served the University for 10 years. In 2015, he joined the faculty at the University of Georgia. Dr. Ross explores new vaccine technologies intended to protect against all strains of influenza – an endeavor that could potentially eliminate the need for seasonal flu shots. Dr. Ross and his colleagues are applying similar strategies to fight other serious viruses such as, Dengue, Zika, Ebola, Chikungunya, and HIV Type-1 viruses.
Dr. Ross has published more than 130 papers and book chapters on infectious disease and vaccine development. He has been an invited speaker at more than 130 national and international conferences and participates in several vaccine working groups, including at the U.S. NIH, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization. He is an editorial 100 board member of Vaccine. He previously served as Editor-in-Chief of the journal Current HIV Research. In addition, he has been an ad-hoc reviewer on NIH study sections and a reviewer for 24 different journals.
Dr. Ross served as the Treasurer and Secretary of International Society for Vaccines from 2012-2017 and now is the current President-Elect (elected 2018) and has served as the Co-Chair of the 8th and 9th Vaccine and ISV Congress in Philadelphia (8th) and Seoul (9th). In addition, Dr. Ross will be the lead Chair of the 12th ISV Congress in 2018 to be held in Atlanta, USA.
PhD (1996) Microbiology & Immunology, Vanderbilt University
MS (1989) Microbiology, University of Arkansas
BS (1986) Zoology, University of Arkansas
Development of Broadly Reactive Vaccines using computationally optimized broadly reactive antigen (COBRA) modeling. Influenza, HIV, Dengue.
Modeling Immunity to Biodefense agents and influenza.
Influenza VLP-based vaccines for seasonal and pandemic influenza.
Pathogenicity/Genomic Modeling of influenza infection in adult and elderly ferrets, and humans.
Evaluation of human clinical samples following influenza vaccination.
Development of tetravalent Dengue VLP-based vaccines.
Development of VLPs for RVFV and CCHFV.
Multiclade Consensus Env VLP AIDS vaccine.
Using Consensus Env Sequences to broaden immunity.
Using C3d adjuvants in a DNA vaccine to enhance the immunogenicity to HIV/SIV, RVFV, Dengue, West Nile, Chikungunya virus envelopes.
Development and testing pandemic H5N1, H1N1, H7N9 subtypes.
1989: Gradaute Student Reseach Award, University of Arkansas
1993-1995: National Research Service Award, Vanderbilt University, School of Medicine
1996: Sidney P. Colowick Award for Outstanding Graduate Student Achievement, Vanderbilt University, School of Medicine
2003: Appreciation of Outstanding Medical Student Teaching, East Carolina University, School of Medicine
2008: Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse Award
2013: Fellow-International Society for Vaccines
2018-2019: President-Elect-International Society for Vaccines
2018: ISV Congress Co-Chair - Atlanta, USA
Search PubMed for Ross TM
Sautto GA, Kirchenbaum GA, Ross TM. Towards a universal influenza vaccine: different approaches for one goal. 2017. Virology J. Accepted.
Moehling KK, Nowalk MP, Lin CJ, Bertolet M, Ross TM, Carter CE, Susick M, Saul SG, Kaynar AM, Bromberger JT, Zimmerman RK. The Effect of frailty on HAI response to influenza vaccine among community-dwelling adults >50 years of age. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2017 Nov 27:1-7. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2017.1405883. [Epub ahead of print].
Kirchenbaum GA, Allen JD, Layman TS, Sautto GA, Ross TM. Infection of ferrets with influenza virus elicits a light chain biased antibody response against hemagglutinin. 2017. J. Immunol. 199(11):3798-3807.
Nuñez IA, Carlock MA, Allen JD, Owino SO, Moehling K, Nowalk MP, Diagle K, Sweeney K, Mundle S, Vogel TU, Delagrave S, Ramagopol M, Zimmerman RK, Kleanthous H, Ross TM. Impact of age and pre-existing influenza immunity in humans on the elicitation of anti-hemagglutinin antibodies receiving split inactivated influenza vaccines. 2017. PLoS One. 12(11). In press.
Carter DM, Darby CA, Johnson SK, Carlock MA, Kirchenbaum GA, Allen, JD, Vogel TU, Delagrave S, DiNapoli J, Alefantis, T, Kleanthous H, Ross TM. Elicitation of protective antibodies against a broad panel of H1N1 viruses in ferrets pre-immune to historical H1N1 influenza viruses. 2017. J Virol. 91(24). In press.
Wong TM, Bebin-Blackwell A-G., Allen JD, Park B, Carter DM, Kleanthous H, Alefantis, T, Ross TM. H3 COBRA hemagglutinin vaccines elicit antibodies with hemagglutinin-inhibition (HAI) activity against a diverse panel of H3N2 influenza viruses. 2017. J Virol. 91:24. In press.
Keef E, Zhang LA, Swigon D, Urbano A, Ermentrout GB, Matusewski M, Toapanta FR, Ross TM, Parker R, Clermont G. Discrete dynamical modeling of influenza infection suggests age-dependent differences in immunity. 2017. J Virol. 91(23).
Allen JD, Owino SO, Carter DM, Crevar CJ, Evers T, Fox CB, Coler RN, Reed SG, Baldwin SL, Ross, TM. Broadened immunity and protective responses with an emulsion-adjuvanted H5 COBRA VLP vaccine. 2017. Vaccine. 35(38):5209-5216
Platt JL, Silva I, Balin SJ, Lefferts AR, Farkash E, Ross TM, Carroll MC, Cascalho M. C3d regulates immune checkpoint blockade and enhances antitumor immunity. JCI Insight. 2017. 2(9). pii: 90201. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.90201. [Epub ahead of print].
Kirchenbaum GA, Ross TM. Generation of Monoclonal Antibodies against Immunoglobulin Proteins of the Domestic Ferret (Mustela purtorius furo). J Immunol Res. 2017. 5874572. doi: 10.1155/2017/5874572. Epub 2017 Feb 14.
Lee J, Boutz DR, Chromikova V, Joyce MG, Vollmers C, Leung K, Horton AP, DeKosky BJ, Lee CH, Lavinder JJ, Murrin EM, Chrysostomou C, Hoi KH, Tsybovsky Y, Thomas PV, Druz A, Zhang B, Zhang Y, Wang L, Kong WP, Park D, Popova LI, Dekker CL, Davis MM, Carter CE, Ross TM, Ellington AD, Wilson PC, Marcotte EM, Mascola JR, Ippolito GC, Krammer F, Quake SR, Kwong PD, Georgiou G. Molecular-level analysis of the serum antibody repertoire in young adults before and after seasonal influenza vaccination. Nat Med. 2016. 22(12):1456-1464.
Tripp RA, Ross TM. Development of a Zika Vaccine. Expert Rev Vaccines. 2016. 15(9):1083-5.
Wong TM Petrovsky N, Bissel SM, Wiley CM, and Ross TM. Delta inulin-derived adjuvants that elicit Th1 phenotype following vaccination reduces viral lung titers without a reduction in lung immunopathology. 2016. Hum Vacc Immunother. 12:8. 1-10.
Carter DM, Darby CA, Lefoley BC, Crevar CJ, Alefantis T, Oomen R, Anderson SF, Strugnell T, Cortés-Garcia G, Vogel TU, Parrington M, Kleanthous H, Ross TM. Design and Characterization of a Computationally Optimized Broadly Reactive Hemagglutinin vaccine for H1N1 influenza viruses. COBRA HA vaccine. 2016. J Virol. 90(9):4720-4723.
Arévalo MA*, Wong TM*, Ross TM. Expression and Purification of Virus-Like Particles for Vaccination. 2016. J Vis Exp. (112). doi: 10.3791/54041.
Kirchenbaum GA, Carter DM, Ross TM. Sequential Infection in Ferrets with Seasonal H1N1 Influenza Boost Hemagglutinin Stalk Specific Antibodies. 2016. J. Virol. 90:1116-1128.
We apply tools of structural biology, biophysics, biochemistry, molecular biology and bio-computing to an understanding of the mechanisms of BSE, TSE and other diseases of protein misfolding.
Misfolded prions cause a variety of fatal neurodegenerative diseases in both animals and humans.
Athabasca Hall 3-41
780-492-0383
Welcome to the Prion Structure, Function & Dynamics Project
The Prion Structure, Function & Dynamics Project is a collaboration between researchers from the University of Alberta, the University of Toronto and the University of British Columbia. Our goal is study the structure, function and dynamics of the Prion protein.
Prions are the causative agents of a number of incurable neurodegenerative diseases including "mad cow" disease (for cattle), scrapie (for sheep), chronic wasting disease (for deer) and Creutzfeld Jacob disease (for humans). Prions are not viruses or bacteria, but are actually naturally occurring proteins that are found in just about every animal on earth, including humans. Occasionally these normal prion proteins (called PrPc) spontaneously unfold or misfold. If they do, they start propagating or passing on their unfolded state to other "normal" prions, leading to a molecular avalanche of normal prions being rapidly converted to misfolded prions. These misfolded prions (called PrPsc) form large, insoluble aggregates (like curds in curdled milk). The presence of large amounts of PrPsc, especially in brain cells leads to cell death, rapid neural degeneration and classic manifestations of prion disease.
Research into the behaviour of prion diseases will eventually lead to earlier diagnosis and treatment in all mammals afflicted by their associated diseases. To make progress towards this greater goal, the Prion Project brings together top researchers from three universities and from a variety of disciplines to study the structure, function & dynamics of the Prion protein.
7. Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma [Video] – Givetaxfree Vlog
7. Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma [Video]
7. Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma
Clinical trials in dogs to identify new treatments against large B cell lymphoma . [Video]
Clinical trials in dogs at the Virginia and Maryland, Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine are helping to identify new treatments to benefit both dogs and people diagnosed with this cancer.The Animal Cancer Care and Research Center at Virginia Tech is on the cutting-edge of this research, using a new technique called Nano-Pulse Stimulation. These clinical trials in dogs are helping to identify new treatments to benefit both dogs and people diagnosed with this cancerTo enroll in this placebo-controlled study, dogs should have a confirmed diagnosis of multi-centric diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, be at least one-year-old, and weigh at least 22lbs. For more information, contact Mindy Quigley, Clinical Trials Coordinator, at mindyq@vt.edu
Tags biomedical research, Hodgkin Lymphoma, Leukemia, Lymphoma, public health, veterinary college, veterinary medicine, veterinary science
