Cytiva and NecstGen have announced a strategic collaboration to accelerate the development of new cell and gene therapies globally.
The partnership will focus on bringing research into clinical trials. Life science company Cytiva will provide its technologies, services, and solutions to NecstGen, a non-profit CDMO founded in 2020 as a center of excellence for cell and gene therapy in the Netherlands. Both organizations will share their knowledge, expertise, and learnings.
Catarina Flyborg, vice president, Cell and Gene Therapy, Cytiva says: “Cell and gene therapies are transformative medicines and accelerating their development requires harnessing the power of the industry. By sharing our expertise and providing NecstGen with access to our team of specialists, Cytiva will play a critical role in taking translational research from the laboratory to the bedside.”​
NecstGen brings the development, production, QC, QA, and QP functions together in a new 4,000 m2 facility in Leiden Bio Science Park, the largest bio-cluster in the Netherlands. The facility will serve all organizations worldwide, but with a particular focus on academic and small/large industry enterprises who want to bring their research to the clinical stage. NecstGen will provide process development, cGMP manufacturing services up to 200L, and cleanroom rental.
Paul Bilars, CEO, NecstGen, says: “Our partnership with Cytiva will provide us with the flexible and scalable solutions needed by pioneers in the field of cell and gene therapy. Working together, we will accelerate the development of future therapies, bringing these to patients faster.”​
During the first half of 2021, there were 1,328 regenerative medicine trials underway globally sponsored by non-industry groups such as academic centers and government entities, according to figures from the Alliance for Regenerative Medicine.
Copyright - Unless otherwise stated all contents of this web site are © 2022 - William Reed Ltd - All Rights Reserved - Full details for the use of materials on this site can be found in the Terms & Conditions
Related topics: Bio Developments
Related news
Show more
Increased demand for aseptic filling sees Cytiva boost manufacturing capacity in Vancouver
Cytiva investing in additional resins manufacturing operations
Production starts at new Cytiva manufacturing facility in Wales
WCG: Consider IBC review requirements early on in HGT clinical trial planning
Show more
Follow us
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Newsletters
Products
View more
Recipharm AB | Download Case Study Supporting first lyophilised mRNA vaccine to trial
Pfizer CentreOne | Download Technical / White Paper Liposomal and Nanoparticle Technology
Wheeler Bio | Download Technical / White Paper Connectivity & Integration in Biomanufacturing
Actylis – The Partner of Choice | Download Technical / White Paper GMP manufacturing of buffers and liquid blends
Curia | Download Technical / White Paper The value of mRNA vaccines & therapeutics
Actylis – The Partner of Choice | Download Technical / White Paper Custom manufacturing of protease inhibitor PMSF
Webinars
On-demand webinars
Webinar Bioprocessing 4.0
Webinar Delivery Systems for Biologics
Webinar Cell and gene therapies: How can their promise be realized?
Webinar Manufacture of vaccines (Part II)
Webinar Innovations In Drug Delivery
Headlines
GSK, Sanofi, and Takeda align with research communities to advance Singapore's biologics manufacturing capabilities
Alzheimer's: How CBD Oil and Other Products Can Help? | Royalty Capital Management
Comments Off on Alzheimer's: How CBD Oil and Other Products Can Help?
Additionally, it is clinically in addition to scientifically tested and completely protected to make use of. Today we are going to evaluate Greg Gutfeld CBD Oil health supplement. This is a dexterous cannabidiol oil that is extracted from the marijuana plant. This product is formulated with the hemp oil that's extracted from the eighty four varieties of the marijuana plant.
So it's not a "actual" diet that you could go out and purchase and comply with together with… this one is just based on my own frequent sense. I mourned the lack of these tablets for about a week, after which I decided it was time to make some real adjustments. My insomnia had reached new levels of horrible, and I had been hanging onto those little blue drugs as my light on the end of the tunnel. I actually believe all of this stuff performed a job in curing my insomnia .
Over the past few months I've added 5- htp, Ortho-Sleep, melatonin, and CDB oil containing TCH to my day by day routine. So, I've truly at all times taken magnesium (which is touted as one of the "sleep-enhancing" dietary supplements on the market and it certain DID help me sleep after I was pregnant). Now, in the night once I need to sip on one thing I have a cup of this sleeping tea. Giving up coffee was onerous, and giving up wine was harder.
The oil is obtained from the hemp plant to offer it with a quick and pure recovery. The oil is made using pure however secure ingredients to advertise speedy therapeutic. Whether you are suffering from chronic ache, insomnia, nervousness, anxiety, and different well being problems, you'll be able to reap the benefits of this oil. Greg Gutfeld CBD Oil is a one hundred% pure and efficient cannabidiol oil. The producer of this product has formulated this product with great care. People have acquired only positive outcome out of this product only.
Several human studies have discovered that a mixture of CBD and THC is effective in treating pain associated to multiple sclerosis and arthritis. Studies have proven that CBD might help reduce continual ache by impacting endocannabinoid receptor exercise, lowering inflammation and interacting with neurotransmitters . More recently, scientists have found that sure components of marijuana, together with CBD, are answerable for its pain-relieving effects. Take proper sleep of 7-8 hours and avoid late night time sleeping. It soothes your nerve cell and naturally improves the sleeping sample of a person.
Before you discuss to your physician about drugs, strive making life-style changes. Medications present effective short-time period outcomes, however long-term use is related to mortality.
Many crops include cannabinoids, however individuals most commonly hyperlink these compounds to cannabis. In fact, analysis deals exhibits that CBD exerts huge side effects on any of its clients.
CBD does it by curing inflammation which is a significant inhibitor of tryptophan.
Substance abuse – Alcohol use and smoking can contribute to sleep points, and are usually included in a separate category.
All these snacks that might be eaten to make them feel higher will replicate on the quality of muscles and the amount of fats.
Additionally, a number of the frequent problems that turn into nagging companions are insomnia, stress-depression, anxiousness, stress.
He has always been fascinated within the healing potential of cannabidiol, particularly in its ache aid properties. Jamie considers cannabidiol as a strong remedy with minimal unwanted effects. He knows tips on how to assist users make rational buying decisions primarily based on the unbiased and correct critiques of CBD merchandise and types. Elixinol provides a strong treatment from sleeplessness and stress which is a full-spectrum oil and low-dose melatonin. A bottle contains 60 capsules of high-quality hemp extract mixed with coconut oil to raised its texture and taste. The product does not comprise any preservatives, pesticides, and so on., so it is not likely to cause allergy.
It's efficient for most individuals, and has no negative unwanted side effects. Being unable to fall asleep at night exacerbates the negative feelings already bottling up, and this results in a vicious battering of one's mental health. In serious cases, this manifests as psychological problems characterised by the experiencing of hallucinations, paranoia and deteriorating reminiscence. Other continual psychological problems could develop as nicely, corresponding to depression, bipolar disorder and anxiousness dysfunction.
Eating a raw Onion or roasted Onion within the night time additionally helps to get rid of Insomnia drawback. Eating Mango and consuming 10% off Milk or ingesting Mango milkshake regularly within the night time helps to overcome Insomnia.
Almost all analysis on CBD oil and pain comes from adult trials. Experts do not suggest CBD oil for use in youngsters, as there may be little research on the consequences of CBD oil on a baby's developing mind. Most people tolerate CBD oil well, but there are some possible side effects. Although more research is required to substantiate the advantages of CBD oil, it is shaping up as a doubtlessly promising and versatile treatment. One report discovered that brief-term use of CBD oil may scale back the degrees of muscle spasms a person feels. The results are modest, however many people reported a reduction in signs. More research on people are needed to verify these results.
High blood pressure is linked to higher risks of a number of health situations, together with stroke, coronary heart attack and metabolic syndrome . Recent analysis has linked CBD with a number of benefits for the guts and circulatory system, together with the power to lower hypertension. In one lengthy-time period study, researchers gave CBD to mice genetically predisposed to Alzheimer's illness, finding that it helped prevent cognitive decline . Additionally, animal and test-tube research have shown that CBD may lower inflammation and help stop the neurodegeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease . Sativex, an oral spray consisting of CBD and THC, has been confirmed to be a secure and effective way to cut back muscle spasticity in people with a number of sclerosis.
Chronic insomnia will result in decrease testosterone levels, which will result in a number of consequences including a lower libido. Chronic elevated cortisol can also reduce progress hormone production, which is required to maintain muscle mass and bone density.
I simply adore each of them… but I was completely committed to curing my insomnia naturally. I assume it was eliminating these things in conjunction with the food plan modifications that make an enormous difference for me when it comes to sleep. However, I'm confident that ought to I even have an enormous glass of wine earlier than bed, I would NOT sleep as nicely – or perhaps at all.
Talk to your physician about sleep medicines if way of life changes aren't working. Your doctor will look for underlying causes and will prescribe sleep medication. They'll also inform you how lengthy you need to take it.
There is a lot of proof that signifies CBD oil can help with insomnia. By helping you to deal with anxiety and stress extra effectively, your thoughts may be more relaxed and higher ready for good, healthy sleep. Keep in thoughts, however, that totally different folks could have different responses, and it will not be as helpful for some as it's for others.
A 2016 study in the European Journal of Pain used an animal model to see if CBD may help folks with arthritis handle their pain. Researchers applied a topical gel containing CBD to rats with arthritis for 4 days. More research is required to grasp the position of CBD in continual neuropathic ache administration, including the dangers, advantages, and ideal dosages. According to the National Centers for Complementary and Integrative Health , some proof suggests that cannabis or CBD might have modest advantages for continual pain. Cannabidiol may restrict inflammation within the brain and nervous system, which can profit folks experiencing pain, insomnia, and certain immune system responses.
It reduces the problem of arthritis because it helps in lubricating the joints and reduces joint pain. It helps reduces excessive-stress levels and treats depression sufferers. Since it accommodates a plant extract of hemp, it is a good antidepressant product. Releafed CBD Oil is great oil that comes with many advantages that enhance your general well-being and lifestyle. Hemp-derived CBD merchandise (with less than zero.three percent THC) are authorized on the federal level, but are nonetheless unlawful beneath some state legal guidelines.
This product is helpful in boosting your immune power and does not leave any negative effect in your physique. This oil helps you and offers you stress-free life and its natural components make it more helpful for you. It reduces all kinds of body pain and reduces anxiety and fights despair.
As a outcome, dosages are at present open to interpretation, and other people should treat them with caution. However, a 2018 Cochrane review concluded that the potential advantages of cannabis-primarily based medicine might be outweighed by its potential harms. Neuropathic pain is ache caused by damage to the nerves. This type of ache is widespread in ailments similar to multiple sclerosis, accidents similar to herniated discs, and infections such as shingles.
Your coronary heart is never at rest, even if you're sleeping. Yet, sleep deprivation can nonetheless take a toll in your coronary heart's capabilities. People that suffer from insomnia are at a better risk of coronary heart illness and even hypertension. Insomnia also will increase the chances of experiencing a stroke, which happens when the circulate of oxygen and blood to the brain is minimize off due to a ruptured or clogged blood vessel. A lack of vitality may cause feelings of hysteria, despair, or irritation.
Losing a number of hours of sleep the day earlier than a giant presentation or an important interview is a standard sufficient occurrence. So is mendacity awake because of a mix-up involving your decaf espresso. However, if you've tried every thing you possibly can to keep up a regular sleep cycle only to have the sandman pass you over night after night, that's if you might have an insomnia problem.
Nut meg (joy phal0 powder combined with water taken within the evening helps to beat shop insomnia. Avoid a lot of alcohol or caffeine in the afternoon at evening.
cbd e liquid with nicotine In addition, utilizing CBD oil with different drugs might make these medications roughly effective. The FDA doesn't regulate CBD for many conditions.
However, it's necessary to note that some people in each these studies skilled antagonistic reactions associated with CBD remedy, corresponding to convulsions, fever and fatigue. Another research gave 214 people with extreme epilepsy 0.9–2.3 grams of CBD oil per pound (2–5 g/kg) of body weight. Based on current scientific research, CBD oil could help deal with acne because of its anti-inflammatory properties and ability to cut back sebum manufacturing. CBD could assist scale back signs associated to most cancers and unwanted effects related to cancer remedy, like nausea, vomiting and ache.
proves that in comparison to typical medicines for sleep, cannabidiol does not trigger habit and hallucinations, and growing resistance to its dosages can be inconceivable. Hence, this remedy may be thought-about an ideal fit for people who find themselves afraid of getting used to medicines or experiencing allergic reactions. Below, you'll find the listing of one of the best CBD for sleep and pick the one that suits your value and high quality expectations probably the most. Since the former is an amino acid needed for further creation of melatonin, guaranteeing its quantity within the human body is important for fighting insomnia. CBD does it by curing irritation which is a serious inhibitor of tryptophan.
There have been no negative comments associated with this product. It has a propensity to remedy insomnia, persistent pain, stress, and so forth. Just use this product for 90 days repeatedly and get ready to really feel like younger as soon as once more. This supplement is formulated underneath the supervision of experts. This is the reason is, it produces non-reactive outcomes even when it's formulated with the extracts of the hemp plant. This product has been formulated with the extracts of plant and stream of the marijuana plant.
Helps enhance your sleep – Does your mind run at night time and keep you awake? Then, attempt to get CBD earlier than bedtime so as to fall into a deep sleep, which can actually freshen you up. We genuinely consider that unbiased feedback and user expertise will assist any customer make good choices and get monetary savings while shopping for CBD merchandise on-line.
Sure – you can keep targeted an hour at a time with the assistance of lots of caffeine, however in the long run it's not going to work. Your bodily and mental well being shall be hit hard, and you received't be the only one affected. As talked about earlier, sleep deprivation can ruin your relationships by altering your judgment and temper, and the unhealthy decisions you make while fatigued can have far-reaching penalties. Next, the impact of insomnia on workplace productivity is 2-fold.
For instance, a number of research have proven that remedy with CBD improved quality of life and sleep high quality for folks with Parkinson's disease . One study seemed on the results of CBD and THC in 177 individuals with cancer-associated ache who didn't expertise aid from pain medicine. CBD oil has even been used to safely treat insomnia and nervousness in kids with submit-traumatic stress disorder . Another research found that Sativex considerably improved pain during motion, ache at relaxation and sleep high quality in fifty eight individuals with rheumatoid arthritis .
For instance, one research found that remedy with CBD reduced oxidative stress and prevented heart harm in diabetic mice with coronary heart disease . One latest study handled nine healthy men with one dose of 600 mg of CBD oil and found it lowered resting blood stress, compared to a placebo.
When you've continual insomnia, you're continually careworn and infrequently have headaches. Even if you're normally an emotionally steady individual, this is going to affect your mood . Many studies have shown discount code that people with insomnia usually tend to acquire weight and turn into overweight . The first step to overcoming insomnia is to gauge your own life-style and attempt to spot the foundation causes of the problem.
In truth, some of the studied uses for CBD is in treating neurological problems like epilepsy and multiple sclerosis. Though analysis in this area continues to be comparatively new, a number of research have proven promising results. Researchers imagine that CBD's capacity to act on the endocannabinoid system and different brain signaling techniques might provide benefits for those with neurological issues.
Hemp-derived CBD products with less than 0.3% THC are authorized federally but nonetheless unlawful underneath some state legal guidelines. Cannabis-derived CBD merchandise, however, are illegal federally however legal underneath some state legal guidelines.
The ECS helps regulate features similar to sleep, immune-system responses, and pain. There is proscribed evidence from human studies to support the advantages of CBD oil, as a result of restrictions on the use of and research on cannabis. As cannabis is becoming legalized in varied regions, analysis is gaining momentum and exhibits some promising results. A report from the World Health Organisation in 2017 discovered that CBD doesn't seem to have the potential for abuse or hurt, however that individuals should use it with caution.
Chronic fatigue may also have an effect on habits , which may lead to further unwanted effects. Furthermore, a few of these signs will present up in the quick time period, whereas others are long run issues that may take years of sleep deprivation to develop.
The loopy thing is that insomnia itself is a aspect effect of one other underlying problem. Here's what could also be causing it and what you are able to do about it. Researchers say a lack of sleep may forestall the guts from getting the rest it wants. If you live with insomnia, you may want to learn the way cognitive behavioral remedy might help.
According to the World Health Organization, despair is the only largest contributor to disability worldwide, while nervousness disorders are ranked sixth . Anxiety and despair are frequent mental well being disorders that may have devastating impacts on health and properly-being. An oral spray referred to as Sativex, which is a mix of THC and CBD, is approved in several nations to treat pain associated to multiple sclerosis. Avoid consumption of alcohol and beverages as a result of they damage your well being to a large extent. This is an web exclusive product and not available in any retail store. If you've any allergy from the components used in this complement then do not use this product. The result of this product varies from individual to individual.
Be mindful of the way CBD oil can work together with different drugs; all the time seek the advice of your GP before attempting CBD oil, particularly when you already take a prescription medicine. The reply is that it may be notably helpful for individuals whose sleep problems are brought on by nervousness. One of the most important contributors to insomnia is stress, and preliminary researchhas shown that CBD oil might enhance the way in which your brain responds to stress, which in flip lets you chill out. There is plenty of anecdotal proof that CBD oil helps individuals enjoy really deep sleep and feel extra relaxed and calm in themselves. Peace CBD Oil is a supplement that helps individuals eliminate a wide range of psychological problems similar to depression, stress, anxiousness, and many extra. A combination of varied herbal elements is used to develop this complement. People get many advantages related to psychology and neurology.
Such instances of acute insomnia normally happen when one experiences sudden trauma or main life-style changes. For persistent insomnia though, symptoms persist for more than a month and this is when the effects of the lack of sleep turn out to be really worrying. A 2020 evaluation reports that CBD may have benefits new collection for relieving continual ache, improving sleep, and decreasing irritation, however that these results are condition-specific. There is still lots of analysis to be accomplished, however the early signs are optimistic in regards to the ability of CBD oil to assist with sleep.
Certara Will Contribute to 26 Model-Informed Drug Development Sessions at ACoP10 - PharmaVOICE : PharmaVOICE
Sessions feature physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK), pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) and quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) modeling and simulation
Certara®, the global model-informed drug development and decision support leader, today announced that it is participating in 26 sessions at the International Society of Pharmacometrics' (ISoP's) annual scientific meeting: the 10th American Conference on Pharmacometrics (ACoP10). This year's conference will be held from Oct. 20-23 at the Rosen Shingle Creek Hotel in Orlando, FL.
"We welcome this opportunity to discuss and present our latest research with our industry colleagues and regulatory and academic partners. As the leader in model-informed drug development, Certara is committed to knowledge sharing and playing our part in keeping this science advancing. I am particularly excited to be able to report on the progress being made by our Quantitative Systems Pharmacology (QSP) Immunogenicity (IG) and Immuno-oncology Consortia, which includes publication of our first QSP IG Consortium paper, and the development of our new Neurodegeneration QSP Consortium. Our QSP consortia are composed of leading biopharmaceutical companies, who are working together in a pre-competitive environment to develop QSP simulators that can model specific clinical patient populations," said Certara Senior Vice President QSP Professor Piet van der Graaf.
"We are also delighted to announce ISoP honors bestowed on two of our scientists: Dr. Linzhong Li (co-author of poster M-067) has been selected as an ACoP10 Poster Walk Presenter, and Dr. Shuhua Hu (T-060) has been chosen as a Mathematical and Computational Sciences (MCS) Poster Walk Presenter," added Professor van der Graaf.
Certara will be providing hands-on demonstrations of several of its products during the conference. They include its Simcyp® Population-based Simulator for PBPK modeling and simulation and its enhanced Trial Simulator for computer-assisted trial design. They will be joined by Certara's Phoenix WinNonlin™, the industry standard for non-compartmental analysis, PK/PD and toxicokinetic modeling, and its Phoenix Nonlinear Mixed Effects Modeling (NLME™) population PK/PD tool.
Also in action will be Certara's Pirana workbench, which provides modelers with structure, tools and a GUI to facilitate the iterative model and simulation process; CODEx, its user-friendly interactive interface which allows scientists to explore and communicate with data in Certara's clinical trial outcome databases; and Certara Integral™, its next-generation data repository for clinical pharmacology and pharmacometrics.
Certara's contributions to this year's conference are described below:
Joint Longitudinal and Time-to-event Model for Estimating Risk of Preeclampsia During Pregnancy – Samer Mouksassi
QSP Consortia Impacting Drug Development: From Open Source to Shared Science Towards Re-purposing of iPSP Models – Piet H. van der Graaf
Simcyp ADAM model for Modeling Passive Drug Absorption – David Turner
M-003: Relationship Between Transthyretin (TTR) Knockdown and Change in mNIS+7: Findings from the Patisiran Phase 2 Open-Label Extension and Phase 3 APOLLO Studies for Patients with Hereditary Transthyretin-Mediated Amyloidosis – Michael Dodds (contributing author)
M-009: Population PK/PD Analysis of 2-Way Interaction Between Plazomicin and Changes in Serum Creatinine: A Simultaneous PK/PD Model with a Feedback Loop – Adekemi Taylor, Fran Brown, Nathan Teuscher
M-014: Exposure-Response Analyses for Efficacy and Safety of Esaxerenone, a Novel Nonsteroidal Mineralocorticoid Receptor Blocker – Kris Jamsen, Helen Kastrissios (contributing authors)
M-019: Population PK of Eptinezumab for the Preventive Treatment of Migraine – Martin Beliveau, Igor Rubets, My My Trinh (contributing authors)
M-022: Exposure-Response Analysis for Doravirine Concentrations and Neuropsychiatric AEs and Fasting Lipids – Anetta Claussen, Aziz Ouerdani, Huub Jan Kleijn, Rik de Greef (contributing authors)
M-067: Mechanistic Modeling of Binding and Cell killing Events of Bispecific Antibodies in both in vitro Cytotoxicity Assay and within a PBPK Framework – Linzhong Li, Dan Liu, Rachel Rose, Iain Gardner, Masoud Jamei
M-071: PBPK Modeling Prediction of Effect of Renal Impairment on the PK of Olanzapine and Samidorphan When Administered in Combination – Karen Rowland Yeo (contributing author)
Population PKPD Analysis of 2-Way Interaction between Plazomicin and Changes in Serum Creatinine: A Simultaneous PK/PD Model with a Feedback Loop – Adekemi Taylor
T-002: A Tumor Growth Inhibition-Overall Survival Model for Atezolizumab in First-line Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Based on IMpower150 Study – Mathilde Marchand (contributing author)
T-006: Population PK and Exposure Efficacy Analyses of Deutetrabenazine in Patients with Moderate to Severe Tardive Dyskinesia – Nathalie H. Gosselin (contributing author)
T-016: An MBMA to Study the Effect of Glucagon-like Peptide (GLP-1) Receptor Agonists on Body Weight in Obese and Type 2 Diabetic Populations – Li Qin, Nele Mueller-Plock, Eugene Cox, John Maringwa (contributing authors)
T-021: Population PK Modeling and Simulations of rhPTH(1-84), a Recombinant Human Parathyroid Hormone, to Determine Dosing in Pediatric Patients with Chronic Hypoparathyroidism – Olivier Barriere, Nathalie H. Gosselin, Leng Hong Pheng, Jean-Francois Marier (contributing authors)
T-028: Development of a Translational Population PK/PD Model of mRNA-1944 Encoding Antibody Against Chikungunya Virus in Rats and Non-human Primates – Frank Engler (contributing author)
T-034: Population PK Modeling and Exposure-Response Analysis of Probuphine Implants in Opioid Use Disorder Subjects – Olivier Barriere, Nathalie H. Gosselin, Nada Farhat (contributing authors)
T-055: Exposure-Response Model of Subcutaneous C1-Inhibitor Concentrate to Estimate the Risk of Attacks in Patients with Hereditary Angioedema Using Data from the COMPACT Phase III and Open-label Extension Studies – Emilie Schindler (contributing author)
T-060: Incorporation of a Time-dependent Loss Mechanism into the Delay Process – Shuhua Hu
T-098: vpcstats: A New, Flexible, Powerful and Efficient R package to Compute VPC Percentiles and Prediction Intervals – Olivier Barriere, Samer Mouksassi, Benjamin Rich (contributing authors)
Roller Coaster Session 1b – Craig Comisar (Chair)
W-019: Population PK and Exposure Safety Analyses of Deutetrabenazine in Patients with Moderate to Severe Tardive Dyskinesia— Nathalie H. Gosselin (contributing author)
W026: Relationship Between Urinary Aminolevulinic Acid (ALA) Levels and Porphyria Attacks in Acute Hepatic Porphyria Patients in Clinical Trials with Givosiran – Michael Dodds (contributing author)
W-027: Population PK of Brincidofovir and Cidofovir in Adults and Pediatric Subjects With Viral Infection – Mark Lovern, Virna Schuck, Adekemi Taylor, Tim Bergsma, Yuan Xiong (contributing authors)
W-047: Concentration-Response Modeling of ECG data from Early-phase Clinical Studies to assess QT Prolongation Risk of Contezolid (MRX-I), an Oxazolidinone Antibacterial Agent – Kun Wang (contributing author)
W-052: Population PK of Cabotegravir in Adult Healthy Subjects and HIV-1 Infected Patients Following Administration of Oral Tablet and Long-acting Intramuscular Injection – Mark Lovern, Prokash Paul, Yuan Xiong (contributing authors)
Additional information about ACoP10 can be found at https://www.go-acop.org.
Posted in: Addiction, Cancer, Cardiovascular, Drug Development, Drug Research, Drug Safety, Headaches, Infectious Diseases, Pharmaceutical, Science Education
Men Hair Loss Treatment - Hair Loss Treatment For Men
At present there are only two hair loss drugs are approved by FDA for Male Pattern Baldness (MPB). Advent of 5-alpha-reductace inhibitors such as Propecia and evolution of surgical hair restoration are some other famous and effectively popular treatments of hair loss in men. Lots of advertisement promoting and confirming to perform miracles in regrowth of hair. Do not go for them and loose your precious money.
Finasteride, Proscar/Propecia - Drugs like Proscar and Propecia sell under the generic name Finasteride. Developed by Merck, Finasteride used to treat enlarged prostate glands (Proscar). During its trial on men, hair growth seen as Proscar side effects. Ths lead Merck to develop this FDA approved drug for treating MPB and name it finasteride.
On December 22, 1997 the FDA approved a 1mg dose of finasteride for the treatment of MPB or androgenic alopecia in men. World's first effective hair loss medicine which gives most positive results against MPB is Propecia.
Propecia/Finasteride Working - Finasteride inhibit Type II 5-alpha-reductace. It is the enzyme which is responsible for the conversion of testosterone into a more potent androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT).Propecia's 1 mg dose of finasteride can effectively lower DHT levels by as much as 60% when taken daily. It is DHT that shrinks or miniaturizes the hair follicle, which eventually leads to baldness. This 60% reduction in DHT has proven to stop the progression of hair loss in 86% of men taking the drug during clinical trials. 65% of trial participants experienced what was considered a substantial increase in hair growth.
Minoxidil (loniten) - Previously Minoxidil was used for only to treat high blood pressure. Same as finasteride, minoxidil also has the side effects of hair growth in different place of body such as cheeks, heads back, hands back and forehead also. It is clinically proven to slow the progression of hair loss and regrow some hair. Monoxidil shows its positive effects are at best temporary and usually yield somewhat disappointing long-term results. Due to that American Hair Loss Association still recommends the drug for those who have not responded favorably to finasteride treatment.
With the technological advancement, now there are many alternative for treating baldness. One such alternative is hair transplantation. Hair transplantation is a surgical procedure and involves surgically transplanting hair follicles to bald areas. It is effective but very expensive in most countries. There are non-surgical options are also available.
Emphasize Cost Savings For More Effective Physical Therapy Marketing - Preferred Therapy Providers
May 29 | Marketing, Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy, Physical Therapy Profession, Practice Marketing, Private practice, Revenue Management, Speech Therapy
As people continue to have more choices for their own health care, physical therapists can emphasize the crucial role their services play in patients' recoveries. Some people deal with chronic pain for a long time before seeking treatment, and they have multiple options when they decide to see a doctor. The first step for many patients is to see their primary care physician, and then some doctors will refer patients for an MRI before recommending anything else.
The key role of physical therapy in wellness and cost savings
A study from the U.S. National Library of Medicine's National Institutes of Health found patients who sought an MRI before exploring other options were likely to spend $4,793 more than those who were referred for physical therapy. Whether patients paid for the MRI out of pocket or it was covered by insurance, patients who got an MRI were more likely to seek injections or surgery, which was why they faced higher costs.
While MRIs are an effective diagnostic tool, they reveal normal changes in the spine that happen over the course of a lifetime. These conditions can often be treated without surgical intervention, but many patients are affected by the results, according to the Washington Post. An MRI alone can cost up to $1,500, and even though this test is frequently covered by insurance, many patients have copays or must meet deductibles. This is a significant concern as more people have high-deductible plans. The researchers cited other studies that found there was no clear benefit of an MRI for lower back pain unless there were specific symptoms of a condition.
Physical therapy may be less expensive than surgery.
How can physical therapists use this in their marketing?
As wellness and improving patient outcomes become more significant in the health care sector, physical therapy has multiple benefits. Physical therapists aim to find the cause of back pain and provide education on what patients can do to avoid it. Therapy is more hands-on than surgery and allows patients to take more active roles in their own care, which helps them in the long term.
Physical therapists can use this information to their advantage and provide informational materials to potential patients. Emphasize the benefits of physical therapy and its place in the health care continuum in your online marketing. Because some people may be motivated to research their options before making a decision, online marketing with preventative tips may help patients with their decisions.
12 year old female Labrador Retriever
October 9, 2017 By Allison Zwingenberger
Today's case is a 12-year-old female neutered Labrador Retriever. Worsening cough for the last 3 months. What are your findings?
There is alveolar, lobar consolidation of the left caudal and right cranial lung lobes. There is a diffuse bronchointerstitial pattern with nodular components in the remainder of the lung. The heart appears normal in size. On the d/v projection, there is widening of the mainstem bronchi at the hilus suggesting hilar lymphadenopathy. On the lateral projection, there is a focal hepatomegaly causing curving of the gastric axis.
Differential diagnoses for the pulmonary consolidation, hilar lymphadenopathy, and nodular pattern include primary pulmonary neoplasia with metastasis, or less likely inflammatory disease. A hepatic mass is likely given the deviation of the gastric axis, and ultrasound could be used to confirm this finding and obtain aspirates for cytology.
Ultrasound guided fine needle aspirates of the mass were obtained. Cytology showed primary pulmonary adenocarcinoma with moderate inflammation. There was a hepatic mass in the left liver consistent with hepatoma.
Outpatient Alcohol & Drug Treatment, Plano | Medical City Green Oaks Hospital
At Medical City Green Oaks Hospital, we value the feedback of our patients as it allows us to serve them better. When patients commit to our program, they tend to complete drug and alcohol addiction treatment and attend 12 step groups at a high rate. As a result, our patients not only get sober, but stay sober.
The Medical City Green Oaks Hospital Intensive Outpatient Program for Chemical Dependency (CD IOP) is a comprehensive drug and alcohol addiction treatment program that provides assistance to adults and their families through the early recovery stages of chemical dependency.
"This program was the best thing that could have happened to me when I was at my lowest point in my addiction. The education received will lead me to becoming a competent, sober adult." - CD IOP Patient
The intensive outpatient drug and alcohol addiction program meets in the evenings 6:00 - 9:00pm, three times a week in Plano. Sessions are an equal mix of group therapy, life skills, and education. Our curriculum is typically 8 weeks in length, with each session building on the one before. A patient may enter the program at any point in the cycle. An adult must abstain from using alcohol or other mood-altering drugs for the course of this program. Adults who are using prescription medications must provide proof that it is a current and valid prescription.
A part of each week's program is devoted to family and relationship issues. Family members in the adult's life are encouraged to attend and participate. In addition, individual and family therapy is provided throughout the course of the program along with drug/alcohol testing.
Upon completion of the chemical dependency intensive outpatient program, patients will have had an opportunity to learn, process, and gain insight within the safe structure of a group of their peers. We offer a very strong Aftercare Program made up of former patients who return once a week to share their "experience, strength and hope" with the current adult group.
The Medical City Green Oaks Hospital Adult Intensive Outpatient Program for Chemical Dependency is facilitated by licensed clinicians and is licensed by the Texas Department of State Health Services. We accept private insurance and will work with those who wish to self-pay.
New Best Drug Rehabilitation Blog Post Asks: What are the Most Addictive Painkillers? Skip to navigation
"Many people still believe that drug abuse and drug addiction only refer to illicit drugs, such as cocaine, heroin and so on," commented Best Drug Rehabilitation's CEO Per Wickstrom. "However, there is a prescription drug abuse problem happening in our country that is, without question, of epidemic proportions, and affecting people from all walks of like, and of all ages – from children to seniors." According to the Best Drug Rehabilitation blog post, opioids remain the most abused prescription painkillers. Opioids relieve pain by minimizing the pain signals in the brain, plus they can create a feeling of euphoria. However, the body requires more and more of the drug to achieve a desired state of physical and emotional wellness, which is what leads to a spiralling path of addiction. Some commonly used – and unfortunately, commonly abused – opioids include (but is not limited to): Vicodin
Added Per Wickstrom: "Individuals who are addicted or are concerned that they may be heading down that road can get the professional, compassionate help they need through inpatient treatment programs. Their family members and loved ones who desperately want to help an addict can also call a qualified and certified treatment facility to learn how they can be part of the solution." The full text of Best Drug Rehabilitation's latest blog entitled "What are the Most Addictive Painkillers?" is available at http://www.bestdrugrehabilitation.com/blog/addiction/what-are-the-most-addictive-painkillers/
Chief Physician, Gynecology Expert by Special Invitation
Dr. Sun Jing is one of the premier Gynecology experts in Shanghai and the world. She is world-renown in the diagnosis and treatment of difficult gynecological conditions and minimally invasive gynecological surgeries. She has particular expertise in treating precancerous lesions, uterine fibroids, endometriosis, uterine cesarean section scar defects, ovarian cysts, uterine septum issues, uterine cavity adhesion, and infertility using single-entry laparoscopy, transvaginal surgical approaches and hysteroscopy.
Dr. Sun Jing graduated from Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine. In 1995, she was appointed as a Visiting Physician at Macau General Hospital. In 2000, she went to Osaka Adult Disease Center in Japan for further study.
Dr. Sun Jing is currently the Director of Reproductive Surgery Department at Shanghai First Maternal and Infant Hospital. She has been engaged in gynecological endoscopic surgery for 26 years and has completed more than 22,000 cases of gynecological endoscopic surgery. Concurrently, Dr. Sun is also a member of the Gynecology and Obstetrics Branch of The Chinese Medical Association, the Vice Chairman of the Gynecology and Obstetrics Branch of the Shanghai Medical Association, the leader of the Group of Gynecology Endoscopy, the Vice President of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Branch of the Shanghai Medical Association, and Vice Chairman of the NOTES Committee of World Association of Chinese Doctor. In 2019, she was awarded the " Evaluation Physician Award " by Asia Pacific Association for Gynecological Endoscopy and Minimally Invasive Treatment, and was selected into the "Shanghai Leading Talents" Program.
CARVEDILOL - carvedilol tablet, film coated http://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=2ba6d893-ae2a-4535-b904-667d206f93af
43547-0256-50
43547-0255-50
NDC Code(s): 43547-254-10,
43547-254-11,
43547-254-50,
43547-255-10,
43547-255-11,
43547-255-50,
43547-256-10,
43547-256-11,
43547-256-50,
43547-257-10,
43547-257-11,
RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions, Major Surgery (5.9) Warnings and Precautions, Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (5.14) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol Tablet is an alpha/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients (1.2) Hypertension (1.3) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take with food. Individualize dosage and monitor during up-titration. (2) Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily after intervals of 3 to 10 days. A lower starting dose or slower titration may be used. (2.2) Hypertension: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks. (2.3) DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets: 3.125, 6.25, 12.5, 25 mg (3) CONTRAINDICATIONS Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions (4) Second- or third-degree AV block (4) Sick sinus syndrome (4) Severe bradycardia (unless permanent pacemaker in place) (4) Patients in cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure requiring the use of IV inotropic therapy. (4) Severe hepatic impairment (2.4, 4) History of serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to any component of this medication or other medications containing carvedilol. (4) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy: Do not abruptly discontinue. (5.1) Bradycardia, hypotension, worsening heart failure/fluid retention may occur. Reduce the dose as needed. (5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Non-allergic bronchospasm (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema): Avoid β-blockers. (4) However, if deemed necessary, use with caution and at lowest effective dose. (5.5) Diabetes: Monitor glucose as β-blockers may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia or worsen hyperglycemia. (5.6) ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse events (6.1): Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction (≥10%): Dizziness, fatigue, hypotension, diarrhea, hyperglycemia, asthenia, bradycardia, weight increase. Hypertension (≥ 5%): Dizziness To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Beximco Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. at 877-372-6093 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP P450 2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase and rifampin may decrease Carvedilol Tablet levels. (7.1, 7.5) Hypotensive agents (e.g., reserpine, MAO inhibitors, clonidine) may increase the risk of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. (7.2) Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase. (7.3, 7.4) Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. (7.4) Amiodarone may increase Carvedilol Tablet levels resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. (7.6) Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may affect ECG and/or blood pressure. (7.7) Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced. (7.8) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA-approved patient labeling. Revised: 12/2012 Close
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction 1.3 Hypertension 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction 2.3 Hypertension 2.4 Hepatic Impairment 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5.1 Cessation of Therapy 5.2 Bradycardia 5.3 Hypotension 5.4 Heart Failure/Fluid Retention 5.5 Non-Allergic Bronchospasm 5.6 Glycemic Control in Type 2 Diabetes 5.7 Peripheral Vascular Disease 5.8 Deterioration of Renal Function 5.9 Major Surgery 5.10 Thyrotoxicosis 5.11 Pheochromocytoma 5.12 Prinzmetal's Variant Angina 5.13 Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction 5.14 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities 6.3 Postmarketing Experience 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers 7.2 Hypotensive Agents 7.3 Cyclosporine 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism 7.6 Amiodarone 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics 7.9 Anesthesia 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8.1 Pregnancy 8.3 Nursing Mothers 8.4 Pediatric Use 8.5 Geriatric Use 10 OVERDOSAGE 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action 12.2 Pharmacodynamics 12.3 Pharmacokinetics 12.4 Specific Populations 12.5 Drug-Drug Interactions 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction 14.3 Hypertension 14.4 Hypertension With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17.1 Patient Advice 17.2 FDA-Approved Patient Labeling is provided as a tear off leaflet with this full prescribing information. * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed.
1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction Carvedilol Tablet is indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 1.3 Hypertension Carvedilol Tablet is indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies (14.3, 14.4)]. It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Close
Carvedilol Tablet should be taken with food to slow the rate of absorption and reduce the incidence of orthostatic effects. 2.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND MONITORED DURING UP-TITRATION. Treatment with Carvedilol Tablet may be started as an inpatient or outpatient and should be started after the patient is hemodynamically stable and fluid retention has been minimized. It is recommended that Carvedilol Tablets be started at 6.25 mg twice daily and increased after 3 to 10 days, based on tolerability, to 12.5 mg twice daily, then again to the target dose of 25 mg twice daily. A lower starting dose may be used (3.125 mg twice daily) and/or the rate of up-titration may be slowed if clinically indicated (e.g., due to low blood pressure or heart rate, or fluid retention). Patients should be maintained on lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated. The recommended dosing regimen need not be altered in patients who received treatment with an IV or oral β-blocker during the acute phase of the myocardial infarction. 2.3 Hypertension DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED. The recommended starting dose of Carvedilol Tablet is 6.25 mg twice daily. If this dose is tolerated, using standing systolic pressure measured about 1 hour after dosing as a guide, the dose should be maintained for 7 to 14 days, and then increased to 12.5 mg twice daily if needed, based on trough blood pressure, again using standing systolic pressure one hour after dosing as a guide for tolerance. This dose should also be maintained for 7 to 14 days and can then be adjusted upward to 25 mg twice daily if tolerated and needed. The full antihypertensive effect of Carvedilol Tablets is seen within 7 to 14 days. Total daily dose should not exceed 50 mg. Concomitant administration with a diuretic can be expected to produce additive effects and exaggerate the orthostatic component of Carvedilol Tablet action. 2.4 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol Tablets should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4)]. Close
The white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablets are available in the following strengths: 3.125 mg – Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 254 on one side and plain on the other side, 6.25 mg – Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 255 on one side and plain on the other side, 12.5 mg – Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 256 on one side and plain on the other side, and 25 mg – Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 257 on one side and plain on the other side. Close
Carvedilol Tablet is contraindicated in the following conditions: Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. Deaths from status asthmaticus have been reported following single doses of Carvedilol Tablet. Second- or third-degree AV block Sick sinus syndrome Severe bradycardia (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) Patients with cardiogenic shock or who have decompensated heart failure requiring the use of intravenous inotropic therapy. Such patients should first be weaned from intravenous therapy before initiating Carvedilol Tablet. Patients with severe hepatic impairment Patients with a history of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to any component of this medication or other medications containing Carvedilol Tablet. Close
5.1 Cessation of Therapy Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with Carvedilol Tablets, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. Severe exacerbation of angina and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in angina patients following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with β-blockers. The last 2 complications may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris. As with other β-blockers, when discontinuation of Carvedilol Tablet is planned, the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. Carvedilol Tablet should be discontinued over 1 to 2 weeks whenever possible. If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, it is recommended that Carvedilol Tablet be promptly reinstituted, at least temporarily. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with Carvedilol Tablet abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension or heart failure. 5.2 Bradycardia In clinical trials, Carvedilol Tablet caused bradycardia in about 2% of hypertensive patients, 9% of heart failure patients and 6.5% of myocardial infarction patients with left ventricular dysfunction. If pulse rate drops below 55 beats/minute, the dosage should be reduced. 5.3 Hypotension Postural hypotension occurred in 1.8% and syncope in 0.1% of hypertensive patients, primarily following the initial dose or at the time of dose increase and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1% of patients. In the CAPRICORN study of survivors of an acute myocardial infarction, hypotension or postural hypotension occurred in 20.2% of patients receiving Carvedilol Tablet compared to 12.6% of placebo patients. Syncope was reported in 3.9% and 1.9% of patients, respectively. These events were a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 2.5% of patients receiving Carvedilol Tablet, compared to 0.2% of placebo patients. Starting with a low dose, administration with food, and gradual up-titration should decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)]. During initiation of therapy, the patient should be cautioned to avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks, where injury could result should syncope occur. 5.4 Heart Failure/Fluid Retention Worsening heart failure or fluid retention may occur during up-titration of Carvedilol Tablet. If such symptoms occur, diuretics should be increased and the Carvedilol Tablet dose should not be advanced until clinical stability resumes [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Occasionally it is necessary to lower the Carvedilol Tablet dose or temporarily discontinue it. Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to Carvedilol Tablet. 5.5 Non-Allergic Bronchospasm Patients with bronchospastic disease (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema) should, in general, not receive β-blockers. Carvedilol Tablet may be used with caution, however, in patients who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive agents. It is prudent, if Carvedilol Tablet is used, to use the smallest effective dose, so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous β-agonists is minimized. In clinical trials of patients with heart failure, patients with bronchospastic disease were enrolled if they did not require oral or inhaled medication to treat their bronchospastic disease. In such patients, it is recommended that Carvedilol Tablet be used with caution. The dosing recommendations should be followed closely and the dose should be lowered if any evidence of bronchospasm is observed during up-titration. 5.6 Glycemic Control in Type 2 Diabetes In general, β-blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia. Nonselective β-blockers may potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels. Patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents, should be cautioned about these possibilities. Studies designed to examine the effects of Carvedilol Tablet on glycemic control in patients with diabetes and heart failure have not been conducted. In a study designed to examine the effects of Carvedilol Tablet on glycemic control in a population with mild-to-moderate hypertension and well-controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus, Carvedilol Tablet had no adverse effect on glycemic control, based on HbA1c measurements [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 5.7 Peripheral Vascular Disease β-blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Caution should be exercised in such individuals. 5.8 Deterioration of Renal Function Rarely, use of Carvedilol Tablet in patients with heart failure has resulted in deterioration of renal function. Patients at risk appear to be those with low blood pressure (systolic blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg), ischemic heart disease and diffuse vascular disease, and/or underlying renal insufficiency. Renal function has returned to baseline when Carvedilol Tablet was stopped. In patients with these risk factors it is recommended that renal function be monitored during up-titration of Carvedilol Tablet and the drug discontinued or dosage reduced if worsening of renal function occurs. Chronically administered beta blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery; however, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. 5.9 Major Surgery Chronically administered beta blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery; however, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. 5.10 Thyrotoxicosis β-adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia. Abrupt withdrawal of β-blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm. 5.11 Pheochromocytoma In patients with pheochromocytoma, an α-blocking agent should be initiated prior to the use of any β-blocking agent. Although Carvedilol Tablet has both α- and β-blocking pharmacologic activities, there has been no experience with its use in this condition. Therefore, caution should be taken in the administration of Carvedilol Tablet to patients suspected of having pheochromocytoma. 5.12 Prinzmetal's Variant Angina Agents with non-selective β-blocking activity may provoke chest pain in patients with Prinzmetal's variant angina. There has been no clinical experience with Carvedilol Tablet in these patients although the α-blocking activity may prevent such symptoms. However, caution should be taken in the administration of Carvedilol Tablet to patients suspected of having Prinzmetal's variant angina. 5.13 Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking β-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. 5.14 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with α -1 blockers (Carvedilol Tablet is an alpha/beta blocker). This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique, such as utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery. Close
6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Carvedilol Tablet has been evaluated for safety in patients with heart failure (mild, moderate and severe), in patients with left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction and in hypertensive patients. The observed adverse event profile was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the health status of the patients in the clinical trials. Adverse events reported for each of these patient populations are provided below. Excluded are adverse events considered too general to be informative, and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug because they were associated with the condition being treated or are very common in the treated population. Rates of adverse events were generally similar across demographic subsets (men and women, elderly and non-elderly, blacks and non-blacks). Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction: Carvedilol Tablet has been evaluated for safety in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction in the CAPRICORN trial which involved 969 patients who received Carvedilol Tablet and 980 who received placebo. Approximately 75% of the patients received Carvedilol Tablet for at least 6 months and 53% received Carvedilol Tablet for at least 12 months. Patients were treated for an average of 12.9 months and 12.8 months with Carvedilol Tablet and placebo, respectively. The following adverse events were reported with a frequency of greater than 1% but less than or equal to 3% and more frequently with Carvedilol Tablet: Flu syndrome, cerebrovascular accident, peripheral vascular disorder, hypotonia, depression, gastrointestinal pain, arthritis, and gout. The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar in both groups of patients. In this database, the only cause of discontinuation greater than 1%, and occurring more often on Carvedilol Tablet was hypotension (1.5% on Carvedilol Tablet, 0.2% on placebo). Hypertension: Carvedilol Tablet has been evaluated for safety in hypertension in more than 2,193 patients in U.S. clinical trials and in 2,976 patients in international clinical trials. Approximately 36% of the total treated population received Carvedilol Tablet for at least 6 months. Most adverse events reported during therapy with Carvedilol Tablet were of mild to moderate severity. In U.S. controlled clinical trials directly comparing Carvedilol Tablet in doses up to 50 mg (n = 1,142) to placebo (n = 462), 4.9% of patients receiving Carvedilol Tablet discontinued for adverse events versus 5.2% of placebo patients. Although there was no overall difference in discontinuation rates, discontinuations were more common in the Carvedilol Tablet group for postural hypotension (1% versus 0). The overall incidence of adverse events in U.S. placebo-controlled trials increased with increasing dose of Carvedilol Tablet. For individual adverse events this could only be distinguished for dizziness, which increased in frequency from 2% to 5% as total daily dose increased from 6.25 mg to 50 mg. Table 1 shows adverse events in U.S. placebo-controlled clinical trials for hypertension that occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% regardless of causality, and that were more frequent in drug-treated patients than placebo-treated patients. Table 1. Adverse Events (%) Occurring in U.S. Placebo-Controlled Hypertension Trials (Incidence greater than or equal to 1%, Regardless of Causality)* Carvedilol Tablet
- Dyspnea and fatigue were also reported in these studies, but the rates were equal or greater in patients who received placebo. The following adverse events not described above were reported as possibly or probably related to Carvedilol Tablet in worldwide open or controlled trials with Carvedilol Tablet in patients with hypertension or heart failure. Incidence greater than 0.1% to less than or equal to 1% Cardiovascular: Peripheral ischemia, tachycardia. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Hypokinesia. Gastrointestinal: Bilirubinemia, increased hepatic enzymes (0.2% of hypertension patients and 0.4% of heart failure patients were discontinued from therapy because of increases in hepatic enzymes) [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Psychiatric: Nervousness, sleep disorder, aggravated depression, impaired concentration, abnormal thinking, paroniria, emotional lability. Respiratory System: Asthma [see Contraindications (4)]. Reproductive, male: Decreased libido. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus, rash erythematous, rash maculopapular, rash psoriaform, photosensitivity reaction. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urinary System: Micturition frequency increased. Autonomic Nervous System: Dry mouth, sweating increased. Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypokalemia, hypertriglyceridemia. Hematologic: Anemia, leukopenia. The following events were reported in less than or equal to 0.1% of patients and are potentially important: Complete AV block, bundle branch block, myocardial ischemia, cerebrovascular disorder, convulsions, migraine, neuralgia, paresis, anaphylactoid reaction, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, amnesia, GI hemorrhage, bronchospasm, pulmonary edema, decreased hearing, respiratory alkalosis, increased BUN, decreased HDL, pancytopenia, and atypical lymphocytes. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Reversible elevations in serum transaminases (ALT or AST) have been observed during treatment with Carvedilol Tablet. Rates of transaminase elevations (2 to 3 times the upper limit of normal) observed during controlled clinical trials have generally been similar between patients treated with Carvedilol Tablet and those treated with placebo. However, transaminase elevations, confirmed by rechallenge, have been observed with Carvedilol Tablet. In a long-term, placebo-controlled trial in severe heart failure, patients treated with Carvedilol Tablet had lower values for hepatic transaminases than patients treated with placebo, possibly because improvements in cardiac function induced by Carvedilol Tablet led to less hepatic congestion and/or improved hepatic blood flow. Carvedilol Tablet has not been associated with clinically significant changes in serum potassium, total triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, or creatinine. No clinically relevant changes were noted in fasting serum glucose in hypertensive patients. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of Carvedilol Tablet. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Aplastic anemia. Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions, angioedema, urticaria). Renal and Urinary Disorders: Urinary incontinence. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Interstitial pneumonitis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme. Close
7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of Carvedilol Tablet with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of Carvedilol Tablet [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Retrospective analysis of side effects in clinical trials showed that poor 2D6 metabolizers had a higher rate of dizziness during uptitration, presumably resulting from vasodilating effects of the higher concentrations of the α-blocking R(+) enantiomer. 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking both agents with β-blocking properties and a drug that can deplete catecholamines (e.g., reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. Concomitant administration of clonidine with agents with β-blocking properties may potentiate blood-pressureand heart-ratelowering effects. When concomitant treatment with agents with β-blocking properties and clonidine is to be terminated, the β-blocking agent should be discontinued first. Clonidine therapy can then be discontinued several days later by gradually decreasing the dosage. 7.3 Cyclosporine Modest increases in mean trough cyclosporine concentrations were observed following initiation of Carvedilol Tablet treatment in 21 renal transplant patients suffering from chronic vascular rejection. In about 30% of patients, the dose of cyclosporine had to be reduced in order to maintain cyclosporine concentrations within the therapeutic range, while in the remainder no adjustment was needed. On the average for the group, the dose of cyclosporine was reduced about 20% in these patients. Due to wide interindividual variability in the dose adjustment required, it is recommended that cyclosporine concentrations be monitored closely after initiation of Carvedilol Tablet therapy and that the dose of cyclosporine be adjusted as appropriate. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Digoxin concentrations are increased by about 15% when digoxin and Carvedilol Tablet are administered concomitantly. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing Carvedilol Tablet [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of Carvedilol Tablet by about 70% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. Cimetidine increased AUC by about 30% but caused no change in Cmax [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone, and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9 and P-glycoprotein, increased concentrations of the S(-)-enantiomer of Carvedilol Tablet by at least 2-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with Carvedilol Tablet may enhance the β-blocking properties of Carvedilol Tablet resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Patients should be observed for signs of bradycardia or heart block, particularly when one agent is added to preexisting treatment with the other. 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when Carvedilol Tablets is coadministered with diltiazem. As with other agents with β-blocking properties, if Carvedilol Tablets is to be administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics Agents with β-blocking properties may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.9 Anesthesia If treatment with Carvedilol Tablet is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents which depress myocardial function, such as ether,cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used. Close
8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C. Studies performed in pregnant rats and rabbits given Carvedilol Tablet revealed increased post-implantation loss in rats at doses of 300 mg/kg/day (50 times the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD] as mg/m2) and in rabbits at doses of 75 mg/kg/day (25 times the MRHD as mg/m2). In the rats, there was also a decrease in fetal body weight at the maternally toxic dose of 300 mg/kg/day (50 times the MRHD as mg/m2), which was accompanied by an elevation in the frequency of fetuses with delayed skeletal development (missing or stunted 13th rib). In rats the no-observed-effect level for developmental toxicity was 60 mg/kg/day (10 times the MRHD as mg/m2); in rabbits it was 15 mg/kg/day (5 times the MRHD as mg/m2). There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Carvedilol Tablet should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. 8.3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have shown that Carvedilol Tablet and/or its metabolites (as well as other β-blockers) cross the placental barrier and are excreted in breast milk. There was increased mortality at one week postpartum in neonates from rats treated with 60 mg/kg/day (10 times the MRHD as mg/m2) and above during the last trimester through day 22 of lactation. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from β-blockers, especially bradycardia, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. The effects of other α- and β-blocking agents have included perinatal and neonatal distress. 8.4 Pediatric Use Effectiveness of Carvedilol Tablets in patients younger than 18 years of age has not been established. In a double-blind trial, 161 children (mean age 6 years, range 2 months to 17 years; 45% less than 2 years old) with chronic heart failure [NYHA class II to IV, left ventricular ejection fraction less than 40% for children with a systemic left ventricle (LV), and moderate-severe ventricular dysfunction qualitatively by echo for those with a systemic ventricle that was not an LV] who were receiving standard background treatment were randomized to placebo or to two dose levels of Carvedilol Tablet. These dose levels produced placebo-corrected heart rate reduction of 4 to 6 heartbeats per minute, indicative of β- blockade activity. Exposure appeared to be lower in pediatric subjects than adults. After 8 months of follow-up, there was no significant effect of treatment on clinical outcomes. Adverse reactions in this trial that occurred in greater than 10% of patients treated with Carvedilol Tablet and at twice the rate of placebo-treated patients included chest pain (17% versus 6%), dizziness (13% versus 2%), and dyspnea (11% versus 0%). 8.5 Geriatric Use Of the 975 myocardial infarction patients randomized to Carvedilol Tablet in the CAPRICORN trial, 48% (468) were 65 years of age or older, and 11% (111) were 75 years of age or older. Of the 2,065 hypertensive patients in U.S. clinical trials of efficacy or safety who were treated with Carvedilol Tablet, 21% (436) were 65 years of age or older. Of 3,722 patients receiving Carvedilol Tablet in hypertension clinical trials conducted worldwide, 24% were 65 years of age or older. With the exception of dizziness in hypertensive patients (incidence 8.8% in the elderly versus 6% in younger patients), no overall differences in the safety or effectiveness (see Figure 2 and 4) were observed between the older subjects and younger subjects in each of these populations. Similarly, other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out. Close
Overdosage may cause severe hypotension, bradycardia, cardiac insufficiency, cardiogenic shock, and cardiac arrest. Respiratory problems, bronchospasms, vomiting, lapses of consciousness, and generalized seizures may also occur. The patient should be placed in a supine position and, where necessary, kept under observation and treated under intensive-care conditions. Gastric lavage or pharmacologically induced emesis may be used shortly after ingestion. The following agents may be administered: for excessive bradycardia: Atropine, 2 mg IV. to support cardiovascular function: Glucagon, 5 to 10 mg IV rapidly over 30 seconds, followed by a continuous infusion of 5 mg/hour; sympathomimetics (dobutamine, isoprenaline, adrenaline) at doses according to body weight and effect. If peripheral vasodilation dominates, it may be necessary to administer adrenaline or noradrenaline with continuous monitoring of circulatory conditions. For therapy-resistant bradycardia, pacemaker therapy should be performed. For bronchospasm, β-sympathomimetics (as aerosol or IV) or aminophylline IV should be given. In the event of seizures, slow IV injection of diazepam or clonazepam is recommended. NOTE: In the event of severe intoxication where there are symptoms of shock, treatment with antidotes must be continued for a sufficiently long period of time consistent with the 7 to 10 hour half-life of Carvedilol Tablet. Cases of overdosage with Carvedilol Tablet alone or in combination with other drugs have been reported. Quantities ingested in some cases exceeded 1,000 milligrams. Symptoms experienced included low blood pressure and heart rate. Standard supportive treatment was provided and individuals recovered. Close
Carvedilol Tablet is a nonselective β-adrenergic blocking agent with α1-blocking activity. It is (±)-1-(carbazol-4-yloxy)-3-[[2-(o-methoxyphenoxy)ethyl]amino]-2-propanol. Carvedilol Tablet is a racemic mixture with the following structure: Carvedilol Tablet is a white, oval-shaped, biconvex film-coated tablet containing 3.125 mg, 6.25 mg, 12.5 mg, or 25 mg of Carvedilol Tablet. Inactive ingredients consist of colloidal silicon dioxide, crospovidone, hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, sodium citrate dihydrate, sucrose, and titanium dioxide. Carvedilol Tablet is a white to off-white powder with a molecular weight of 406.5 and molecular formula of C24H26N2O4. It is freely soluble in dimethylsulfoxide; soluble in methylene chloride and methanol; sparingly soluble in 95% ethanol and isopropanol; slightly soluble in ethyl ether; and practically insoluble in water, gastric fluid (simulated, TS, pH 1.1), and intestinal fluid (simulated, TS without pancreatin, pH 7.5). Close
12.1 Mechanism of Action Carvedilol Tablet is a racemic mixture in which nonselective β-adrenoreceptor blocking activity is present in the S(-) enantiomer and α1-adrenergic blocking activity is present in both R(+) and S(-) enantiomers at equal potency. Carvedilol Tablet has no intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction The basis for the beneficial effects of Carvedilol Tablet in patients with left ventricular dysfunction following an acute myocardial infarction is not established. Hypertension The mechanism by which β-blockade produces an antihypertensive effect has not been established. β-adrenoreceptor blocking activity has been demonstrated in animal and human studies showing that Carvedilol Tablet (1) reduces cardiac output in normal subjects; (2) reduces exercise- and/or isoproterenol-induced tachycardia; and (3) reduces reflex orthostatic tachycardia. Significant β-adrenoreceptor blocking effect is usually seen within 1 hour of drug administration. α1-adrenoreceptor blocking activity has been demonstrated in human and animal studies, showing that Carvedilol Tablet (1) attenuates the pressor effects of phenylephrine; (2) causes vasodilation; and (3) reduces peripheral vascular resistance. These effects contribute to the reduction of blood pressure and usually are seen within 30 minutes of drug administration. Due to the α1-receptor blocking activity of Carvedilol Tablet, blood pressure is lowered more in the standing than in the supine position, and symptoms of postural hypotension (1.8%), including rare instances of syncope, can occur. Following oral administration, when postural hypotension has occurred, it has been transient and is uncommon when Carvedilol Tablet is administered with food at the recommended starting dose and titration increments are closely followed [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. In hypertensive patients with normal renal function, therapeutic doses of Carvedilol Tablet decreased renal vascular resistance with no change in glomerular filtration rate or renal plasma flow. Changes in excretion of sodium, potassium, uric acid, and phosphorus in hypertensive patients with normal renal function were similar after Carvedilol Tablet and placebo. Carvedilol Tablet has little effect on plasma catecholamines, plasma aldosterone, or electrolyte levels, but it does significantly reduce plasma renin activity when given for at least 4 weeks. It also increases levels of atrial natriuretic peptide. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Carvedilol Tablet is rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration, with absolute bioavailability of approximately 25% to 35% due to a significant degree of firstpass metabolism. Following oral administration, the apparent mean terminal elimination half-life of Carvedilol Tablet generally ranges from 7 to 10 hours. Plasma concentrations achieved are proportional to the oral dose administered. When administered with food, the rate of absorption is slowed, as evidenced by a delay in the time to reach peak plasma levels, with no significant difference in extent of bioavailability. Taking Carvedilol Tablet with food should minimize the risk of orthostatic hypotension. Carvedilol Tablet is extensively metabolized. Following oral administration of radiolabelled Carvedilol Tablet to healthy volunteers, Carvedilol Tablet accounted for only about 7% of the total radioactivity in plasma as measured by area under the curve (AUC). Less than 2% of the dose was excreted unchanged in the urine. Carvedilol Tablet is metabolized primarily by aromatic ring oxidation and glucuronidation. The oxidative metabolites are further metabolized by conjugation via glucuronidation and sulfation. The metabolites of Carvedilol Tablet are excreted primarily via the bile into the feces. Demethylation and hydroxylation at the phenol ring produce 3 active metabolites with β-receptor blocking activity. Based on preclinical studies, the 4'-hydroxyphenyl metabolite is approximately 13 times more potent than Carvedilol Tablet for β-blockade. Compared to Carvedilol Tablet, the three active metabolites exhibit weak vasodilating activity. Plasma concentrations of the active metabolites are about one-tenth of those observed for Carvedilol Tablet and have pharmacokinetics similar to the parent. Carvedilol Tablet undergoes stereoselective first-pass metabolism with plasma levels of R(+)-Carvedilol Tablet approximately 2 to 3 times higher than S(-)-Carvedilol Tablet following oral administration in healthy subjects. The mean apparent terminal elimination half-lives for R(+)-Carvedilol Tablet range from 5 to 9 hours compared with 7 to 11 hours for the S(-)-enantiomer. The primary P450 enzymes responsible for the metabolism of both R(+) and S(-)-Carvedilol Tablet in human liver microsomes were CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent CYP3A4, 2C19, 1A2, and 2E1. CYP2D6 is thought to be the major enzyme in the 4'- and 5'-hydroxylation of Carvedilol Tablet, with a potential contribution from 3A4. CYP2C9 is thought to be of primary importance in the O-methylation pathway of S(-)-Carvedilol Tablet. Carvedilol Tablet is subject to the effects of genetic polymorphism with poor metabolizers of debrisoquin (a marker for cytochrome P450 2D6) exhibiting 2 to 3 fold higher plasma concentrations of R(+)-Carvedilol Tablet compared to extensive metabolizers. In contrast, plasma levels of S(-)-Carvedilol Tablet are increased only about 20% to 25% in poor metabolizers, indicating this enantiomer is metabolized to a lesser extent by cytochrome P450 2D6 than R(+)-Carvedilol Tablet. The pharmacokinetics of Carvedilol Tablet do not appear to be different in poor metabolizers of S-mephenytoin (patients deficient in cytochrome P450 2C19). Carvedilol Tablet is more than 98% bound to plasma proteins, primarily with albumin. The plasma-protein binding is independent of concentration over the therapeutic range. Carvedilol Tablet is a basic, lipophilic compound with a steady-state volume of distribution of approximately 115 L, indicating substantial distribution into extravascular tissues. Plasma clearance ranges from 500 to 700 mL/min. 12.4 Specific Populations Geriatric Plasma levels of Carvedilol Tablet average about 50% higher in the elderly compared to young subjects. Hepatic Impairment Compared to healthy subjects, patients with severe liver impairment (cirrhosis) exhibit a 4 to 7 fold increase in Carvedilol Tablet levels. Carvedilol Tablet is contraindicated in patients with severe liver impairment. Renal Impairment Although Carvedilol Tablet is metabolized primarily by the liver, plasma concentrations of Carvedilol Tablet have been reported to be increased in patients with renal impairment. Based on mean AUC data, approximately 40% to 50% higher plasma concentrations of Carvedilol Tablet were observed in hypertensive patients with moderate to severe renal impairment compared to a control group of hypertensive patients with normal renal function. However, the ranges of AUC values were similar for both groups. Changes in mean peak plasma levels were less pronounced, approximately 12% to 26% higher in patients with impaired renal function. Consistent with its high degree of plasma protein-binding, Carvedilol Tablet does not appear to be cleared significantly by hemodialysis. 12.5 Drug-Drug Interactions Since Carvedilol Tablet undergoes substantial oxidative metabolism, the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of Carvedilol Tablet may be affected by induction or inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes. Amiodarone In a pharmacokinetic study conducted in 106 Japanese patients with heart failure, coadministration of small loading and maintenance doses of amiodarone with Carvedilol Tablet resulted in at least a 2 fold increase in the steady-state trough concentrations of S(-)-Carvedilol Tablet [see Drug Interactions (7.6)]. Cimetidine In a pharmacokinetic study conducted in 10 healthy male subjects, cimetidine (1,000 mg/day) increased the steady-state AUC of Carvedilol Tablet by 30% with no change in Cmax [see Drug Interactions (7.5)]. Digoxin Following concomitant administration of Carvedilol Tablet (25 mg once daily) and digoxin (0.25 mg once daily) for 14 days, steady-state AUC and trough concentrations of digoxin were increased by 14% and 16%, respectively, in 12 hypertensive patients [see Drug Interactions (7.4)]. Glyburide In 12 healthy subjects, combined administration of Carvedilol Tablet (25 mg once daily) and a single dose of glyburide did not result in a clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction for either compound. Hydrochlorothiazide A single oral dose of Carvedilol Tablet 25 mg did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg in 12 patients with hypertension. Likewise, hydrochlorothiazide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of Carvedilol Tablet. Rifampin In a pharmacokinetic study conducted in 8 healthy male subjects, rifampin (600 mg daily for 12 days) decreased the AUC and Cmax of Carvedilol Tablet by about 70% [see Drug Interactions (7.5)]. Torsemide In a study of 12 healthy subjects, combined oral administration of Carvedilol Tablet 25 mg once daily and torsemide 5 mg once daily for 5 days did not result in any significant differences in their pharmacokinetics compared with administration of the drugs alone. Warfarin Carvedilol Tablet (12.5 mg twice daily) did not have an effect on the steady-state prothrombin time ratios and did not alter the pharmacokinetics of R(+)- and S(-)-warfarin following concomitant administration with warfarin in 9 healthy volunteers. Close
13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility In 2-year studies conducted in rats given Carvedilol Tablet at doses up to 75 mg/kg/day (12 times the MRHD when compared on a mg/m2 basis) or in mice given up to 200 mg/kg/day (16 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis), Carvedilol Tablet had no carcinogenic effect. Carvedilol Tablet was negative when tested in a battery of genotoxicity assays, including the Ames and the CHO/HGPRT assays for mutagenicity and the in vitro hamster micronucleus and in vivo human lymphocyte cell tests for clastogenicity. At doses greater than or equal to 200 mg/kg/day (greater than or equal to 32 times the MRHD as mg/m2) Carvedilol Tablet was toxic to adult rats (sedation, reduced weight gain) and was associated with a reduced number of successful matings, prolonged mating time, significantly fewer corpora lutea and implants per dam, and complete resorption of 18% of the litters. The no-observed-effect dose level for overt toxicity and impairment of fertility was 60 mg/kg/day (10 times the MRHD as mg/m2). Close
14.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction CAPRICORN was a double-blind study comparing Carvedilol Tablet and placebo in 1,959 patients with a recent myocardial infarction (within 21 days) and left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40%, with (47%) or without symptoms of heart failure. Patients given Carvedilol Tablet received 6.25 mg twice daily, titrated as tolerated to 25 mg twice daily. Patients had to have a systolic blood pressure greater than 90 mm Hg, a sitting heart rate greater than 60 beats/minute, and no contraindication to β-blocker use. Treatment of the index infarction included aspirin (85%), IV or oral β-blockers (37%), nitrates (73%), heparin (64%), thrombolytics (40%), and acute angioplasty (12%). Background treatment included ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (97%), anticoagulants (20%), lipid-lowering agents (23%), and diuretics (34%). Baseline population characteristics included an average age of 63 years, 74% male, 95% Caucasian, mean blood pressure 121/74 mm Hg, 22% with diabetes, and 54% with a history of hypertension. Mean dosage achieved of Carvedilol Tablet was 20 mg twice daily; mean duration of follow-up was 15 months. All-cause mortality was 15% in the placebo group and 12% in the Carvedilol Tablet group, indicating a 23% risk reduction in patients treated with Carvedilol Tablet (95% CI 2 to 40%, p = 0.03), as shown in Figure 1. The effects on mortality in various subgroups are shown in Figure 2. Nearly all deaths were cardiovascular (which were reduced by 25% by Carvedilol Tablet), and most of these deaths were sudden or related to pump failure (both types of death were reduced by Carvedilol Tablet). Another study end point, total mortality and all-cause hospitalization, did not show a significant improvement. There was also a significant 40% reduction in fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction observed in the group treated with Carvedilol Tablet (95% CI 11% to 60%, p = 0.01). A similar reduction in the risk of myocardial infarction was also observed in a meta-analysis of placebo-controlled trials of Carvedilol Tablet in heart failure. Figure 1. Survival Analysis for CAPRICORN (Intent-to-Treat) Figure 2. Effects on Mortality for Subgroups in CAPRICORN 14.3 Hypertension Carvedilol Tablet was studied in 2 placebo-controlled trials that utilized twice-daily dosing, at total daily doses of 12.5 to 50 mg. In these and other studies, the starting dose did not exceed 12.5 mg. At 50 mg/day, Carvedilol Tablet reduced sitting trough (12-hour) blood pressure by about 9/5.5 mm Hg; at 25 mg/day the effect was about 7.5/3.5 mm Hg. Comparisons of trough to peak blood pressure showed a trough to peak ratio for blood pressure response of about 65%. Heart rate fell by about 7.5 beats/minute at 50 mg/day. In general, as is true for other β-blockers, responses were smaller in black than non-black patients. There were no age- or gender-related differences in response. The peak antihypertensive effect occurred 1 to 2 hours after a dose. The dose-related blood pressure response was accompanied by a dose-related increase in adverse effects [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 14.4 Hypertension With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus In a double-blind study (GEMINI), Carvedilol Tablet, added to an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker, was evaluated in a population with mild-to-moderate hypertension and well-controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus. The mean HbA1c at baseline was 7.2%. Carvedilol Tablet was titrated to a mean dose of 17.5 mg twice daily and maintained for 5 months. Carvedilol Tablet had no adverse effect on glycemic control, based on HbA1c measurements (mean change from baseline of 0.02%, 95% CI -0.06 to 0.10, p = NS) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Close
Carvedilol Tablets are available as follows: 3.125 mg- Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 254 on one side and plain on the other side contains 3.125 mg of Carvedilol. Tablets are supplied as follows: NDC 43547-254-10 in bottles of 100 tablets NDC 43547-254-50 in bottles of 500 tablets NDC 43547-254-11 in bottles of 1000 tablets 6.25 mg- Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 255 on one side and plain on the other side contains 6.25 mg of Carvedilol. Tablets are supplied as follows: NDC 43547-255-10 in bottles of 100 tablets NDC 43547-255-50 in bottles of 500 tablets NDC43547-255-11 in bottles of 1000 tablets 12.5 mg- Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 256 on one side and plain on the other side, and contains 12.5 mg of Carvedilol. Tablets are supplied as follows: NDC 43547-256-10 in bottles of 100 tablets NDC 43547-256-50 in bottles of 500 tablets NDC 43547-256-11 in bottles of 1000 tablets 25 mg- Each white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet engraved with 257 on one side and plain on the otherside contains 25 mg of Carvedilol. Tablets are supplied as follows: NDC 43547-257-10 in bottles of 100 bottles NDC 43547-257-50 in bottles of 500 tablets NDC 43547-257-11 in bottles of 1000 tablets Store below 30°C (86°F). Protect from moisture. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container. Close
See FDA-Approved Patient Labeling (17.2). 17.1 Patient Advice Patients taking Carvedilol Tablet should be advised of the following: Patients should take Carvedilol Tablet with food. Patients should not interrupt or discontinue using Carvedilol Tablet without a physician's advice. Patients should consult their physician if they experience signs or symptoms of worsening heart failure such as weight gain or increasing shortness of breath. Patients may experience a drop in blood pressure when standing, resulting in dizziness and, rarely, fainting. Patients should sit or lie down when these symptomsof lowered blood pressure occur. If experiencing dizziness or fatigue, patients should avoid driving or hazardous tasks. Patients should consult a physician if they experience dizziness or faintness, in case the dosage should be adjusted. Diabetic patients should report any changes in blood sugar levels to their physician. Contact lens wearers may experience decreased lacrimation. 17.2 FDA-Approved Patient Labeling is provided as a tear off leaflet with this full prescribing information. Manufactured By: Shasun Pharmaceuticals Limited,Unit-II, R.S. No.:32, 33 and 34, Shasun Road, Periyakalapet, Puducherry -605014. India Mfg. Lic. No. 05 13 1523 Manufactured for:Beximco Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.4110 Regal Oaks Drive, P.O. Box 1060, Suwanee, GA 30024, USA Distributed by: Solco healthcare U.S., LLCCranbury, NJ 08512 code: 020002067 Revised - 12/2012 Close
PATIENT INFORMATION – Rx only Carvedilol Tablet Read the Patient Information that comes with Carvedilol Tablet before you start taking them and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment. If you have any questions about Carvedilol Tablet, ask your doctor or pharmacist. WHAT IS Carvedilol Tablet? Carvedilol Tablet is a prescription medicine that belongs to a group of medicines called "betablockers". Carvedilol Tablet is used, often with other medicines, for the following conditions: To treat patients with high blood pressure (hypertension) To treat patients who had a heart attack that worsened how well the heart pumps Carvedilol Tablet is not approved for use in children under 18 years of age. WHO SHOULD NOT TAKE CARVEDILOL Tablet? Do not take Carvedilol Tablet if you: Have severe heart failure and are hospitalized in the intensive care unit or require certain intravenous medications that help support circulation (inotropic medications) Are prone to asthma or other breathing problems Have a slow heartbeat or a heart that skips a beat (irregular heartbeat) Have liver problems Are allergic to any of the ingredients in Carvedilol Tablet. The active ingredient is Carvedilol Tablet. See the end of this leaflet for a list of all the ingredients in Carvedilol Tablet. WHAT SHOULD I TELL MY DOCTOR BEFORE TAKING CARVEDILOL Tablet? Tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions, including if you: Have asthma or other lung problems (such as bronchitis or emphysema) Have problems with blood flow in your feet and legs (peripheral vascular disease). Carvedilol Tablet can make some of your symptoms worse. Have diabetes Have thyroid problems Have a condition called pheochromocytoma Have had severe allergic reactions Are pregnant or trying to become pregnant. It is not known if Carvedilol Tablet is safe for your unborn baby. You and your doctor should talk about the best way to control your high blood pressure during pregnancy. Are breastfeeding. It is not known if Carvedilol Tablet passes into your breast milk. You should not breastfeed while using Carvedilol Tablet. Are scheduled for surgery and will be given anesthetic agents Are scheduled for cataract surgery and have taken or are currently taking Carvedilol Tablet. Are taking prescription or non-prescription medicines, vitamins, and herbal supplements. Carvedilol Tablet and certain other medicines can affect each other and cause serious side effects. Carvedilol Tablet may affect the way other medicines work. Also, other medicines may affect how well Carvedilol Tablet work. Keep a list of all the medicines you take. Show this list to your doctor and pharmacist before you start a new medicine. HOW SHOULD I TAKE Carvedilol Tablet? It is important for you to take your medicine every day as directed by your doctor. If you stop taking Carvedilol Tablet suddenly, you could have chest pain and/or a heart attack. If your doctor decides that you should stop taking Carvedilol Tablet, your doctor may slowly lower your dose over a period of time before stopping it completely. Take Carvedilol Tablet exactly as prescribed. Your doctor will tell you how many Tablet to take and how often. In order to minimize possible side effects, your doctor might begin with a low dose and then slowly increase the dose. Do not stop taking Carvedilol Tablet and do not change the amount of Carvedilol Tablet you take without talking to your doctor. Tell your doctor if you gain weight or have trouble breathing while taking Carvedilol Tablet. Take Carvedilol Tablet with food. If you miss a dose of Carvedilol Tablet, take your dose as soon as you remember, unless it is time to take your next dose. Take your next dose at the usual time. Do not take 2 doses at the same time. If you take too many Carvedilol Tablet, call your doctor or poison control center right away. WHAT SHOULD I AVOID WHILE TAKING Carvedilol Tablet? Carvedilol Tablet can cause you to feel dizzy, tired, or faint. Do not drive a car, use machinery, or do anything that needs you to be alert if you have these symptoms. WHAT ARE POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS OF Carvedilol Tablet? Low blood pressure (which may cause dizziness or fainting when you stand up). If these happen, sit or lie down right away and tell your doctor. Tiredness. If you feel tired or dizzy you should not drive, use machinery, or do anything that needs you to be alert. Slow heartbeat. Changes in your blood sugar. If you have diabetes, tell your doctor if you have any changes in your blood sugar levels. Carvedilol Tablet may hide some of the symptoms of low blood sugar, especially a fast heartbeat. Carvedilol Tablet may mask the symptoms of hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid). Worsening of severe allergic reactions. Rare but serious allergic reactions (including hives or swelling of the face, lips, tongue, and/or throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing) have happened in patients who were on Carvedilol Tablet. These reactions can be life-threatening. Other side effects of Carvedilol Tablet include shortness of breath, weight gain, diarrhea, and fewer tears or dry eyes that become bothersome if you wear contact lenses. Call your doctor if you have any side effects that bother you or don't go away. How should I store Carvedilol Tablet? Store Carvedilol Tablet at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). Keep the Tablet dry. Safely, throw away Carvedilol Tablet that are out of date or no longer needed. Keep Carvedilol Tablet and all medicines out of the reach of children. GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT Carvedilol Tablet Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions other than those described in patient information leaflets. Do not use Carvedilol Tablet for a condition for which they were not prescribed. Do not give Carvedilol Tablet to other people, even if they have the same symptoms you have. They may harm them. This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Carvedilol Tablet. If you would like more information, talk with your doctor. You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Carvedilol Tablet that is written for healthcare professionals WHAT ARE THE INGREDIENTS IN Carvedilol Tablet? Active Ingredient: Carvedilol Tablet. Inactive Ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, crospovidone, hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, sodium citrate dihydrate, sucrose, and titanium dioxide. Carvedilol Tablet Tablet come in the following strengths: 3.125 mg, 6.25 mg, 12.5 mg and 25 mg Manufactured By: Shasun Pharmaceuticals Limited,Unit-II, R.S. No.:32, 33 and 34, Shasun Road, Periyakalapet, Puducherry -605014. India Mfg. Lic. No. 05 13 1523 Manufactured for:Beximco Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.4110 Regal Oaks Drive, P.O. Box 1060, Suwanee, GA 30024, USA Distributed by: Solco healthcare U.S., LLCCranbury, NJ 08512 code: 020002067 Revised - 12/2012 Close
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3.125 mg NDC 43547-254-10 Rx only Carvedilol Tablet Tablet USP 3.125 mg 100 Tablet Solco Healthcare U.S. PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6.25 mg NDC 43547-255-10 Rx only Carvedilol Tablet Tablet USP 6.25 mg 100 Tablet Solco Healthcare U.S. PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12.5 mg NDC 43547-256-10 Rx only Carvedilol Tablet Tablet USP 12.5 mg 100 Tablet Solco Healthcare U.S. PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg NDC 43547-257-10 Rx only Carvedilol Tablet Tablet USP 25 mg 100 Tablet Solco Healthcare U.S. Close
manufacture(43547-254, 43547-255, 43547-256, 43547-257), analysis(43547-254, 43547-255, 43547-256, 43547-257) Close
