In this study, there was a hypothesis that infection-prone procedure such as use of rib cartilage or temporalis fascia in rhinoplasty may increase the bacterial numbers during the operation. The bacterial colonies of nasal cavity or chest may move to rhinoplasty surgical field, that is, intradorsum. No patients in the control group used rib cartilage or temporalis muscle fascia while they were used in 3 patients of hexidine group and 3 patient of regular-soap group. Although the bacterial numbers of CFU increased in groups with infection-prone procedure, it was not statistically significant. This may be attributed to small numbers of patients. Other possible explanations are the masking effect of intravenous antibiotics, effect of shampooing or shower with chlorhexidine in chlorhexidine group, or the irrigation of the operation field during the surgery.
Hemani ML, Lepor H (2009) Skin preparation for the prevention of surgical site infection: which agent is best? Rev Urol 11(4):190–195
Slavin SA, Rees TD, Guy CL, Goldwyn RM (1983) An investigation of bacteremia during rhinoplasty. Plast Reconstr Surg 71:196–198
SK and KT analyzed the data and wrote the manuscript. SL performed culture study. SS reviewed the data. DK and HJ designed this study and revised the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Korea University Medical Center, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea
Dairy Research Institute | InsightAugustMainPage2012
Higher Calcium Intake for at Least a Week or in a Single Meal Increases Fat Utilization, Meta-analysis Concludes A meta-analysis of eight randomized, controlled trials of calcium's effect on fat oxidation (utilization of fat for energy) found that higher calcium intake (~1,300 milligrams/day vs. ~488 mg/day) over at least seven days significantly increased fat oxidation by 11 percent and contributed to the fat loss benefits of a high-calcium, energy-restricted diet. The authors estimated that an 11 percent increase in fat oxidation would result in the loss of approximately 8 pounds in a year. The effect was the strongest when habitual calcium intake of the participants was low (<700 mg/day). Increasing calcium intake at a single meal also significantly increased fat oxidation, but more studies are needed to confirm these results. Increasing fat oxidation is one of three major mechanisms
that have been proposed to explain how calcium influences body weight. Other studies summarized in previous issues of Dairy Research iNSIGHTS have examined the role of calcium and dairy foods in helping to maintain a healthy weight:
Observational Data Support the Role of Dairy Consumption in Weight Maintenance Read More Increasing Calcium and Dairy Food Intake May Be Part of the Obesity Solution Read More
Gonzalez JT, Rumbold PL, Stevenson EJ. Effect of calcium intake on fat oxidation in adults: a meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials. Obes Rev. [Epub ahead of print]. 2012 June 19. Abstract
Dietary Patterns That Incorporate Higher Intakes of Dairy Foods May Reduce the Risk of Diabetes in Men The worldwide prevalence of diabetes is increasing and is projected to rise from 6.4 percent in 2010 to 7.7 percent by 2030 — a majority being type 2 diabetes. A large, five-year prospective study in Australia found that men 25 years old and older who consumed the most dairy foods, compared with the least, had nearly a 50 percent reduced risk of diabetes independent of other risk factors. The researchers primarily attributed the benefit to cheese and low-fat milk intake. Dairy intake also was associated with a nonsignificant trend toward a reduced risk of diabetes among women. Dairy foods may help reduce diabetes risk through their impact on diabetes risk factors, such as body weight, blood pressure and insulin resistance — though further research is needed to fully understand the potential mechanisms involved. According to the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans, moderate evidence indicates that consumption of milk and milk products is associated with a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes in adults. Read more about the current research on dairy and diabetes in this concise report. Grantham NM, Magliano DJ, Hodge A, Jowett J, Meikle P, Shaw JE. The association between dairy food intake and the incidence of diabetes in Australia: the Australian Diabetes Obesity and Lifestyle Study (AusDiab). Public Health Nutr. [Epub ahead of print]. 2012 June 7:1-7. Abstract
Higher Vitamin D Intake Is Related to Lower 20-Year Incidence of Metabolic Syndrome
Metabolic syndrome, a clustering of cardiovascular risk factors in one individual, can precede cardiovascular events, such as heart attack and stroke. A large, 20-year prospective study in both black and white young adults (18 to 30 years), from the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults study, found that a higher versus lower vitamin D intake from food and supplements was associated with a 23 percent lower risk of developing metabolic syndrome as the participants reached middle age. This relationship remained statistically significant even after adjusting for the effect of demographics, lifestyle factors and calcium intake. A higher vitamin D intake from food and supplements also was associated with a significantly lower 20-year prevalence of some components of metabolic syndrome, including abdominal obesity, high blood glucose and low HDL-cholesterol. Milk was the main dietary source of both calcium and vitamin D in this population. This research contributes to the body of literature demonstrating that vitamin D intake may help reduce the risk of chronic disease. The authors say their research "supports the recommendations of the Dietary Reference Intakes and 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans to consume vitamin D-fortified milk products, certain types of fish, egg yolks and other foods that are fortified with vitamin D." Fung GJ, Steffen LM, Zhou X, et al. Vitamin D intake is inversely related to risk of developing metabolic syndrome in African American and white men and women over 20 y: the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults study. Am J Clin Nutr. [Epub ahead of print]. 2012 May 30. Abstract
Choosing Milk Over Sugar-sweetened Beverages or Fruit Juice May Significantly Reduce the Risk of Type 2 Diabetes in Women
A prospective study of more than 82,000 women (26 to 45 years) enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study II examined whether the replacement of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB) and fruit juices with plain water is associated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes. In the process of evaluating different beverages, researchers found that substituting 1 cup of milk (fat-free, low-fat or whole) or coffee for a serving of SSB or fruit juices was associated with a 12 to 17 percent reduction in risk for type 2 diabetes. These risk reductions were greater than when plain water was substituted for SSB or fruit juice (7 and 8 percent, respectively), or when artificially sweetened beverages or tea (5 to 7 percent) were substituted for SSB or fruit juice. The researchers cited evidence that components in milk such as calcium, magnesium, lactose and dairy protein may have contributed to the additional benefit seen over plain water. This study is the first to provide evidence that choosing milk over SSBs and fruit juice may help lower the risk of type 2 diabetes. Click here
for a report summarizing current research on dairy foods and diabetes. Pan A, Malik VS, Schulze MB, Manson JE, Willett WC, Hu FB. Plain-water intake and risk of type 2 diabetes in young and middle-aged women. Am J Clin Nutr. 2012;95(6):1454-1460. Abstract
Whey Protein Consumed at Breakfast and Lunch Does Not Enhance the Effects of Exercise Training on Body Composition or Impact Metabolic Health Outcomes in Middle-aged Overweight Adults
Some research suggests that both exercise and a higher-protein diet may improve body composition and other indices of metabolic health. A 36-week, community-based, randomized, controlled trial in 187 overweight and obese adults (35 to 65 years) examined consuming different amounts of whey protein (0, 20, 40 or 60 grams per day) divided between breakfast and lunch in combination with unsupervised resistance (two days/week) and aerobic training (one day/week). Researchers found that exercise slightly improved measures of strength, maximal oxygen uptake capacity, lean body mass and fat mass. Whey consumption did not enhance the effects of exercise or have any effects on body composition or any metabolic health outcomes on its own. However, the protein supplement was not consumed immediately after exercise, which previous studies have shown may enhance the effect of whey on muscle protein synthesis. Visit the new microsite
on whey protein for further research and information. Neither exercise nor whey had any effects on measures of glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity or biomarkers of lipid metabolism and inflammation. Although whey protein supplementation increased total protein intake levels to as high as twice the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA), the authors state that participants compensated for the extra calories by decreasing their intake of other foods so that their weight remained stable. In addition to the timing of whey protein consumption, the authors suggest these unexpected results also may be explained by the fact that the participants were already consuming the RDA for protein at baseline and that fewer than half met the criteria for metabolic syndrome at study onset, making it difficult to detect significant changes. Additional research is needed to further define the role of dairy protein in metabolic health, with and without exercise.
Weinheimer EM, Conley TB, Kobza VM, et al. Whey protein supplementation does not affect exercise training-induced changes in body composition and indices of metabolic syndrome in middle-aged overweight and obese adults. J Nutr. 2012;142(8):1532-1539. Abstract
Nutrients Commonly Linked With Lower Risk of Chronic Disease Were Associated With Higher Diet Costs
Nutrients such as vitamins A, C, E, beta carotene, folate, calcium, potassium and fiber have been associated with lower risk of chronic disease. A survey of approximately 1,300 adults in the Seattle area examined how energy-adjusted intakes of key nutrients were related to diet cost (as estimated from food prices at supermarkets in Seattle) and socioeconomic status. Results showed that: Higher intakes of dietary fiber, vitamins A, C, D, E and B12, beta carotene, folate, iron, calcium, potassium and magnesium were associated with higher diet costs. In contrast, higher intakes of saturated fats, trans fats and added sugars were associated with lower diet costs.
Lower-cost, lower-quality diets were more likely to be consumed by those with a lower socioeconomic status. Calcium and vitamin D — nutrients largely obtained in the diet from milk and milk products — were among the beneficial nutrients that were relatively inexpensive, as were vitamin E, folate and iron. A previous study conducted by one of the same researchers helped identify affordable, nutrient-rich foods. They found that "milk and milk products were by far the lowest-cost source of dietary calcium and were among the lowest-cost sources of riboflavin and vitamin B(12)." Aggarwal A, Monsivais P, Drewnowski A. Nutrient Intakes Linked to Better Health Outcomes Are Associated With Higher Diet Costs in the US. PLoS ONE. [Epub ahead of print]. 2012 May 25. Full Article
High-Calcium, Vitamin D-fortified Milk Reduces Markers of Bone Loss and Improves Vitamin D Status in Postmenopausal Chinese Women
The incidence of hip fracture has increased two to threefold in most Asian countries over the last 30 years. A randomized, clinical trial in 63 postmenopausal women living in Beijing, China, found that supplementation with calcium- and vitamin D-fortified milk for 12 weeks, when compared with a placebo, significantly reduced indicators of bone turnover and resorption (breakdown) and improved vitamin D status. The women in this study were potentially at risk for osteoporosis due to habitually low calcium intakes (<500 milligrams/day) and vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency. The women drank the fortified milk twice a day, which provided a daily total of 900mg calcium, 96mg magnesium, 2.4 mg zinc and 6.4µg (256 I.U.) vitamin D. Many women over age 50 in the U.S. also have low calcium and vitamin D intakes relative to recommendations — and have low dairy food intakes
averaging only 1.25 servings per day — less than half the three servings per day recommended by the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. Increased intake of milk, with its bone-building nutrients, may help all postmenopausal women reduce their risk of osteoporosis as they age. Kruger MC, Ha PC, Todd JM, et al. High-calcium, vitamin D fortified milk is effective in improving bone turnover markers and vitamin D status in healthy postmenopausal Chinese women. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2012;66(7);856-861. Abstract
Dairy Calcium, But Not Calcium Supplements, Is Associated With Lower Risk of Heart Attack
A large, 11-year prospective study in Germany evaluated the associations of dietary calcium intake and calcium supplementation with risk of heart attack, stroke and overall mortality. The study found that a moderately higher intake of dairy calcium (average of 820 milligrams/day), compared with the lowest intake (average of 188 mg/day), was associated with a statistically significant 30 percent lower risk of heart attack. The strongest relationship occurred in women, while in men it was nonsignificant. In contrast, those who used calcium supplements had a statistically significant increased risk of heart attack compared with those who didn't use any supplements. No overall statistically significant association was found between total, dairy or nondairy calcium intake and stroke risk or cardiovascular mortality. According to the authors, this is the first observational study to report a possible adverse effect of calcium supplements on risk of heart attack. Several studies have, however, observed an association between higher blood calcium levels and blood vessel calcification — a process that doesn't occur after eating calcium-rich foods. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends meeting nutrient needs primarily by consuming nutrient-rich foods. Three servings of low-fat or fat-free dairy foods per day is suggested to help meet the calcium needs of individuals age 9 and older. Li K, Kaaks R, Linseisen J, Rohrmann S. Associations of dietary calcium intake and calcium supplementation with myocardial infarction and stroke risk and overall cardiovascular mortality in the Heidelberg cohort of the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition study (EPIC-Heidelberg). Heart. 2012;98(12):920-925. Abstract
Meta-Analysis Finds Vitamin D Plus Calcium Supplementation Is Associated With Reduced Risk of Death in the Elderly
During the last decade, there has been increasing recognition of the role of vitamin D in physiological functions beyond bone metabolism. However, evidence that vitamin D influences overall mortality is mixed. A meta-analysis of 24 randomized, controlled trials reporting data on mortality among more than 70,000 elderly adults (62 to 77 years) found that risk of death was significantly reduced if vitamin D was given with calcium, but not when vitamin D was given alone. Mortality was significantly reduced only in participants who consumed 400 I.U. of vitamin D daily (the amount found in four servings of vitamin D-fortified milk) in combination with calcium. The authors say calcium and vitamin D, when consumed together, may have health effects greater than their individual effects alone. Although the studies included in this analysis used supplemental calcium and vitamin D for their interventions, baseline dietary intakes may have contributed to their beneficial effects. In the U.S., milk is the No. 1 food source of both calcium and vitamin D. Rejnmark L, Avenell A, Masud T, et al. Vitamin D with Calcium Reduces Mortality: Patient Level Pooled Analysis of 70,528 Patients from Eight Major Vitamin D Trials. J Clin Endocirin Metab. [Epub ahead of print]. 2012 May 17. Abstract
Adding Salt During the Manufacture of Milk Protein Concentrate Results in Protein Powders That Are Easier to Dissolve Researchers from the California Dairy Products Technology Center determined that the increase in solubility of milk protein concentrate manufactured with higher sodium content is due to the decrease in bonds between sulfur atoms, reduction in particle size and modification of the hydrophobicity of the powders. These modified milk protein concentrate powders (MPC80) dissolve almost entirely in water if a small quantity of salt is added during the diafiltration part of the manufacturing process. This study provides the dairy industry with the technical insights to expand MPC80 into foods and beverages that require complete solubility of proteins in order to foam, gel or emulsify other ingredients, like oils or flavors.
The researchers created a salt-based MPC80 powder and used fluorescence probes to study the surface of proteins in a dilute water solution. Their study shows that salt makes proteins more water-soluble by changing their structure and behavior. It appears that salt breaks disulfide bonds among individual proteins, which causes proteins to partially unfold and expose their inner fat-soluble (hydrophobic) amino acids to water. Casein micelles were more widely spaced and formed smaller particles. These simple changes in structure result in improved solubility in water for MPC80.
Mao XY, Tong PS, Gualco S, Vink S. Effect of NaCl addition during diafiltration on the solubility, hydrophobicity, and disulfide bonds of 80% milk protein concentrate powder. J Dairy Sci. 2012;95(7):3481-3488.
Salt Whey Used to Produce New Process Cheese Product Researchers at South Dakota State University found an innovative process to recycle salt whey, the byproduct released during cheese pressing, back into cheese products. They modified a formulation for process cheese product by replacing salt with salt whey and by using a young exopolysaccharide (EPS) Cheddar as the base cheese. Frequent cheese consumers could not tell the difference between the process cheese foods in a triangle test. The other unique ingredient in their research was young, low-sodium Cheddar cheese made with EPS-producing bacteria. EPS consists of long strands of sugar molecules made by bacteria that are the natural thickener found in yogurt and sour cream. In the cheese it formed large pockets, which softened the texture and gave it good melting characteristics. By using a low-sodium, EPS-containing Cheddar as the base, they were able to use up to 13 percent salt whey in their formulation. The new product not only has identical flavor to standard process cheese products, but it actually had a softer texture and better melting properties. This creative use for salt whey is an opportunity for the dairy industry to save on disposal costs, reduce raw ingredients and improve environmental stewardship. Janevski O, Hassan AN, Metzger L. Application of salt whey in process cheese food made from Cheddar cheese containing exopolysaccharides. J Dairy Sci. 2012;95(7):3609-3616.
New Detection Method Could Improve Shelf Life of Pasteurized Milk
Researchers at Cornell University have developed a more rapid and sensitive method to count the number of Paenibacillus spores in milk, which could lead to longer shelf life for fluid milk products. Paenibacillus is a spore-forming bacterium that is able to grow at refrigerated temperatures and may represent more than 95 percent of the bacterial population late in the shelf life of milk. This growth results in off-flavors or curdled pasteurized milk. The current testing procedure takes seven to 10 days and is not specific for Paenibacillus, which limits its ability to forecast shelf life. The Cornell researchers developed a rapid TaqMan PCR method that traces specific genes back to the offending organism, Paenibacillus species. The new procedure takes three days for low numbers of spores (less than 30/milliliter), with previous research showing that even one spore per milliliter can result in spoiled product at the end of shelf life. The new method also could be used in one day to detect higher numbers of spores when investigating spore sources. Dairy processors can use this quick screening tool to estimate the shelf life of incoming raw milk and perhaps pinpoint the source of contamination.
Ranieri ML, Reid A, Ivy W, et al. Real-Time PCR Detection of Paenibacillus spp. in Raw Milk to Predict Shelf-Life Performance of Pasteurized Fluid Milk Products. App Environ Microbiol. [Epub ahead of print]. 2012 June 8.
New Rapid Method to Determine Sodium in Dairy Products Proposed
Italian researchers have developed a new method for determining the amount of sodium in dairy products based on capillary electrophoresis techniques. The most common method of determining sodium cannot differentiate between sodium chloride and potassium chloride nor can it detect nonchloride sodium salts like sodium citrate or sodium lactate. Other procedures like atomic absorption or plasma emission spectroscopy are expensive and slower than the industry needs for v
at-to-vat control of sodium. The proposed method should take less than 30 minutes per sample, making it a relatively quick testing procedure that can differentiate between cations.
Capillary electrophoresis uses electric current to move charged particles, such as sodium ions, through an extremely thin tube filled with liquid and then detects the particles as they exit the tube. The rate of movement of the charged particles is dependent on their relative charge and size, which allows the separation and direct detection of sodium, calcium, magnesium and potassium ions, for example. The investigators tested only a limited number of samples, but if the results can be confirmed, then this method would allow greater control of sodium content, less product quality variation and improved consumer satisfaction.
Masotti F, Erba D, De Noni I, Pellegrino L. Rapid determination of sodium in milk and milk products by capillary zone electrophoresis. J Dairy Sci. 2012;95(6):2872-2881. Abstract
Life Cycle Assessment Studies Provide Standard, But Increased Guidelines Are Warranted
Life cycle assessment (LCA), a method regulated by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), provides a standard procedure for assessing environmental impacts. This review highlights the need for increased guidelines to better streamline and compare LCA studies of the same product. Thirteen LCA studies of European milk production were reviewed to identify both the advantages and weaknesses of LCA and to suggest improvements for future studies. Researchers suggested that one strength of the LCA method is that it addresses environmental impacts through the entire life cycle of a product — in this case, milk. However, results are difficult to compare across the 13 milk LCA studies due to differing goals, scope and assumptions. To address this challenge, the authors provided six specific improvements to be addressed. LCA is the scientific foundation for environmental reporting and product labeling. As consumers and retailers increasingly demand information on the sustainability of products, it is important to develop a uniform methodology for product categories that is in compliance with ISO standards. The Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy® is currently working with the International Dairy Federation on a common LCA methodology that will support these needs. Yan M, Humphreys J, Holden N. An evaluation of life cycle assessment of European milk production. J Environ Manage. 2011;92(3):372-379.
Dairy Farm Improves Water Quality Through Collaborative Approach With Local Stakeholders A dairy farm in Vermont employed a five-step collaborative approach to investigate and reduce the level of phosphorus going into the Lake Champlain watershed, thus helping to preserve the health of the ecosystem and the area's $3.8 billion tourism industry. Shelburne Farms, a nonprofit environmental education center and working dairy farm, brought together landowners, residents, and researchers to investigate and improve water quality. Lake Champlain receives high levels of phosphorus from the surrounding area. Through their research, Shelburne Farms developed and implemented a storm water treatment system consisting of an inlet pond, rectangular subsurface flow gravel wetlands, vegetated buffer zone surrounding the wetland and an outlet pond. It successfully reduced the amount of phosphorus leaving the farm. However, longer- term evaluations are needed to fully understand the phosphorus reductions and develop ongoing improvement strategies. The approach was effective in engaging stakeholders, securing funds to implement solutions and providing educational benefits. It serves as a model for adaptive management that meets the needs of multiple stakeholders in a complex agroecosystem. Kominami H, Lovell ST. An adaptive management approach to improve water quality at a model dairy farm in Vermont, USA. Ecol Eng. 2012;40:131-143.
Danyliw AD, Vatanparast H, Nikpartow N, Whiting SJ. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. [Epub ahead of print]. 2012 June 14. Abstract
Black LJ, Seamans KM, Cashman KD, Kiely M. J Nutr. 2012;142(6):1102-1108. Abstract
Cashman KD, Seamans KM, Lucey AJ, et al. Am J Clin Nutr. 2012;95(6):1350-1356.
Tripkovic L, Lambert H, Hart K, et al. Am J Clin Nutr. 2012;95(6):1357-1364.
Vitamin D in food and supplements (Editorial)
Tangpricha V. Am J Clin Nutr. 2012;95(6):1299-1300. Abstract
Kumar M, Verma V, Nagpal R, et al. Br J Nutr. 2012;107(7):1006-1016. Abstract
Oral administration of milk fermented with Lactococcus lactic subsp. cremoris FC protects mice against influenza virus infection
Maruo T, Gotoh Y, Nishimura H, Ohashi S, Toda T, Takahashi K. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2012;55(2):135-40. Abstract
Myambutol - drug review: dosage, side effects, action, buy Myambutol
Myambutol review
Myambutol can be generically prescribed as ethambutol and is often used for in the treatments of tuberculosis. Myambutol is an effective antibiotic for the treatment of tuberculosis as it prevents the tuberculosis bacteria from reproducing or growing in the body, allowing patients to heal from the infection. Myambutol should be taken for the entire length of the prescription to be sure that the infection has cleared up completely. While Myambutol is most effective on the tuberculosis bacteria, this medication can sometimes be used for other bacterial infections.
Myambutol is not appropriate for all patients and patients with a medical history which includes cataracts, kidney disease, diabetic retinopathy, or optic neuritis may not tolerate Myambutol well. A thorough medical assessment prior to prescribing this medication may prevent serious reactions in people with a compromised medical history.
Myambutol has not undergone testing to determine its effects on an unborn baby. Myambutol should be avoided in women who are pregnant or nursing.
Myambutol should be taken exactly as it has been prescribed, as taking too much of Myambutol or taking doses close together may lead to an overdose. An overdose of Myambutol requires emergency medical treatment and may present with symptoms which include possible disorientation, heart rhythm problems, and other unknown complications. If the patient misses a dose of Myambutol they should simply take it when remembered provided it is not nearing time for the next scheduled dose. If taking the medication places the doses too close together, the missed dose should be skipped to avoid the potential for an overdose. Missing too many doses is likely to result in a return of the infection.
There are side effects associated with Myambutol and some have a tendency to be quite severe. Patients who react severely to Myambutol require immediate emergency medical attention. Severe side effects include an allergic reaction, fever, confusion, disorientation, hallucinations, numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, legs, or arms, a skin rash, or changes in vision, especially those with green-red color blindness or blurring of the vision.
An allergic reaction can be life threatening and should be treated accordingly and emergency medical treatment should be sought. An allergic reaction is typically represented by symptoms which are likely to include hives, difficulty breathing, and swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue, or throat.
Less serious side effects are much more common and realistically don't typically need any medical attention outside of being reported to the prescribing physician. Less serious side effects are likely to include headache, mild dizziness, mild nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, a decrease in appetite, joint pain, and worsening symptoms in patients previously diagnosed with gout. Patients should report any side effects they experience to the prescribing physician, even if they are not listed as a potential side effect.
Drug interactions may occur when taking Myambutol, and they can be life threatening, lessen the effectiveness of medications, or cause additional illness. Medications should never be prescribed without a patient medical history and patients should always inquire with the prescribing physician before taking any new medications, including over the counter medications and herbal remedies. Medications with known interactions with Myambutol include antacids and other medications which contain levels of aluminum.
Myambutol has the following structural formula:
• Molecular formula of myambutol is C10H24N2O2
• Chemical IUPAC Name is 2-[2-(1-hydroxybutan-2-ylamino)ethylamino]butan-1-ol
• Molecular weight is 204.31 g/mol
• Myambutol available : 400mg tablets
Brand name(s): Aethambutolum, Dadibutol, Diambutol, Etambutol, Etambutolo, Ethambutolum, Etibi, Tibutol
PPT - Manner: Natural – Natural disease presenting as unexpected death PowerPoint Presentation - ID:1069183
Manner: Natural – Natural disease presenting as unexpected death PowerPoint Presentation
Manner: Natural – Natural disease presenting as unexpected death
<iframe src="https://www.slideserve.com/embed/1069183" width="600" height="497" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC;border-width:1px 1px 0;margin-bottom:5px" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen> </iframe>
Manner: Natural – Natural disease presenting as unexpected death - PowerPoint PPT Presentation
Manner: Natural – Natural disease presenting as unexpected death. Marnie Wood MD FRCPC (Anatomic and Forensic Pathology) ABP March 20, 2012. Objectives. Gain better understanding of natural deaths over which the Nova Scotia Medical Examiner Service (NSMES) assumes jurisdiction
abundant pulmonary edema
Forensic Pathologist - . by: stephanie pomante , alieen lotito , sam corbo.
FORENSIC PATHOLOGY - . motor vehicle accidents. motor vehicle accidents. why perform an autopsy after a mva?
Forensic Pathology and Odontology - Forensic pathology and odontology. what is forensic pathology?. definition: -
INTRODUCTION TO FORENSIC MEDICINE - . robert c. bux, md coroner/medical examiner el paso county. duties of the
Forensic Pathology - . death: meaning, manner, mechanism, cause, and time. our day begins when your day ends. death.
D E A T H - . complete, permanent and irreversible cessation of the vital functions. somatic or clinical death
WELCOME TO THE WORLD OF FORENSIC MEDICINE - . marie cassidy professor of forensic medicine and state pathologist.
Introduction to Pathology and Manner Of Death - . autolysis – when a cell starts to breakdown (cell membrane
Forensic Pathology - . vocabulary. algor mortis- the cooling of the body after death autolysis- the
Sudden death - . yoni syukriani department of forensic and legal medicine. reference. knights, simpson's forensic
Death: Meaning, Manner, Mechanism & Cause - Mr. chapman. death: meaning, manner, mechanism &amp; cause. before
Sudden cardiovascular death - Lina paola avella gina castellanos raul castilla fabian galarza natalli rodriguez
FORENSIC PATHOLOGY - . time of death and decay. manner of death. natural: death as a result of age or disease; this
Forensic Pathology and Autopsy - . pathology. field of medicine concerned with identifying disease forensic pathology
The Forensic Autopsy - . what is an autopsy?. an autopsy is a post mortem examination preformed on a corpse to
Manner: Natural – Natural disease presenting as unexpected death Marnie Wood MD FRCPC (Anatomic and Forensic Pathology) ABP March 20, 2012
Objectives • Gain better understanding of natural deaths over which the Nova Scotia Medical Examiner Service (NSMES) assumes jurisdiction • Have an appreciation of the spectrum of natural disease seen by MES as unexpected deaths • View case examples of ME investigation of natural deaths
Introduction • May think violent/suspicious deaths are the majority of Medical Examiner cases
Introduction • Anecdotally Natural deaths compose 56% of autopsied NSMES cases (Accident 29%, Suicide 12%, Homicide 3%, Undetermined <1%) • The cause of death in majority is some variety of ASCVD or chronic ethanol abuse
Introduction • Natural deaths are reportable to Medical Examiner under several subsections of Fatality Investigations Act • May or may not assume jurisdiction over the reported death
Duty to notify Medical Examiner Service: • Death result of violence, accident or suicide • Unexpectedly when in good health • Where person not under care of a physician • Where cause of death is undetermined • Result of improper or suspected negligent treatment by a person
Definition of unexpected varies markedly depending on perspective • Tragic does not equal unexpected • Cause of death need not be determined with 100% certainty • Opinion based on reasonable interpretation of data
Notify ME where person dies in health-care facility and there is reason to believe: • Death result of violence, suspected suicide or accident • Death result of suspected misadventure, negligence or accident on part of attending physician or staff • Cause of death is undetermined • Stillbirth or neonatal death where maternal injury before admission or during delivery • Within 10 days of surgery, or during anaesthesia
Death in Health Care Facility • Threshold for taking jurisdiction over deaths during medical intervention tends to be high • Accidental or intentional overdose of medication • Injury from malfunction of equipment (eg electrocution) • Procedure outside of scope of licensed practice • Complication beyond reasonable/foreseeable • Consider any allegations being made
Death in Health Care Facility • Tragic does not equal unexpected, accidental or negligent • Cause of death need not be determined with 100% certainty • May be able to determine cause without knowing exact mechanism
Notify of deaths in custody • Death while detained, or in custody in a correctional institution • While an inmate is in Hospital • While in custody under Children and Family Services Act • While detained by, or in custody of peace officer
Notify of death related to employment or occupation • Where person dies as result of: • Disease or ill health • An injury sustained by the person • A toxic substance introduced into the person Probably caused by or connected with the person's employment
Typically do not take jurisdiction: • Natural Manner when sufficient clinical information with which to form reasonable opinion of cause of death • Natural Manner where mechanism of death was a reasonable/foreseeable complication of appropriate medical therapy • Deaths during surgery/treatment for natural disease • Natural Manner where occupational disease did not contribute in any way
Of reportable, typically take jurisdiction over: • All accidents, homicides, suicides • All possible accidents, homicides, suicides • Where negligence is alleged • All in custody, regardless apparent manner • All possibly related to occupation • Where insufficient clinical information to determine cause of death
Introduction • Deaths occurring under these circumstances are investigated by the Medical Examiner, through review of scene and history information, +/- autopsy to determine • Identity of deceased • Time and place of death • Cause and manner of death
Case 1 • 64 year old woman • Found deceased in bed, no recent complaints • Recent long flight • No known medical history
At autopsy: • Abundant pulmonary edema • Subarachnoid hemorrhage concentrated at base of brain
Case 2 • 55 year old woman • Found collapsed in bedroom, unresponsive with labored breathing, arrest prior to EHS • Death declared at scene • Six month history increasing shortness of breath, palpitations following flu-like illness
Home > News & Info > News Archive > NIH Grants $13.7 Million to Radiation Oncology Project in Collaboration with ME NIH Grants $13.7 Million to Radiation Oncology Project in Collaboration with ME
Saitou is responsible for a portion of the project that aims to improve the accuracy of deformable image registration (DIR) of patient's CT images taken during the radiation therapy treatment. The treatment can last for weeks or months. During the patient's first visit, a high-resolution CT image is taken of the cancer tissue. When the patient comes in for his or her subsequent visits, a lower resolution image is taken. Deformable image registration compares the two images and identifies the corresponding features between them, such as tumors, bones, organs, and fat. This is the first step necessary for adjusting radiation beams in the course of treatment in response to the changes in tumor. By incorporating biomechanical models of bones and tissues, Saitou and the group intend to overcome the accuracy limit to the conventional information-based DIR techniques.
Effects of the Pandemic: Mental health crisis - Kids Choice Pediatrics
May 22, 2020 / Anil Bhatia, Owner and Practice Administrator / Comments Off on Effects of the Pandemic: Mental health crisis
A mental health crisis is looming as millions of people worldwide are surrounded by death and disease and forced into isolation, poverty and anxiety by the pandemic of COVID-19.
Millions of people are facing economic turmoil, having lost or being at risk of losing their income and livelihoods. Moreover, frequent misinformation and rumors about the pandemic and deep uncertainty about how long it will last are making people feel anxious and hopeless about the future. The knowledge that people may not have the opportunity to say goodbye to dying loved ones and may not be able to hold funerals for them, further contributes to the distress.
Presenting a U.N. report and policy guidance on COVID-19 and mental health, Kestel said an upsurge in the number and severity of mental illnesses is likely. "The mental health and wellbeing of whole societies have been severely impacted by this crisis and are a priority to be addressed urgently," she said.
Emerging studies and surveys are already showing COVID-19's impact on mental health globally. Psychologists say children are anxious and increases in cases of depression and anxiety have been recorded in several countries. Domestic violence is rising, and health workers are reporting an increased need for psychological support. Interviews with doctors and nurses reveal that they or their colleagues had experienced a combination of panic, anxiety, grief, numbness, irritability, insomnia and nightmares.
National data from populations around the world would appear to confirm this increased mental vulnerability, WHO's Dévora Kestel said, citing surveys "showing an increase of prevalence of distress of 45 per cent of the population surveyed in the US, 60 per cent in Iran, and 35 per cent in China".
Another early indication that a problem is brewing is the lethality of suicide attempts reported at emergency rooms across the country, said Dr. Elinore McCance-Katz, the U.S. assistant secretary for mental health and substance use. In April, calls to a national mental-health hotline were up 1,000% over the same period last year, she said.
Confining children indoors for prolonged periods is proving to have a negative influence on their psychological health. Psychologists openly worry about depression, stress, loneliness and the sense of vulnerability this prolonged isolation could inflict on children. The situation is even bleaker for those trapped in abusive homes. Childhelp reported a 20% increase in calls and 439% increase in texts to its child-abuse hotline at the end of March.
A study comparing post-traumatic stress symptoms in parents and children quarantined with those not quarantined found that the mean post-traumatic stress scores of the quarantined children were four times higher than in those who weren't quarantined. Another study found that three years after a quarantine ended, symptoms of depression were significantly more likely than among those who hadn't been quarantined.
Exactly how extensive the psychological toll on Americans will be remains unclear. Reporting is stymied by fear of going to the hospital. Children aren't able to easily talk to teachers to report problems at home, and abuse victims are often unable to call for help because they have been stuck in the same home as their abusers.
Counter-measures that could be taken include redressing historic under-investment in psychological services, providing "emergency mental health" via remote therapies such as tele-counselling for frontline health workers, and working proactively with people known to have depression and anxiety, and with those at high risk of domestic violence and acute impoverishment.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/coronaviruspandemic-complicates-opioidtreatment-11586262903?mod=article_inline
Dentistry, like all the other clinical sciences, possesses divisions. The types of dental care feature endodontics, orthodontics, dentofacial surgical procedure, pediatric medicines, public health, cosmetic dentistry, as well as cosmetic surgery. The endodontic branch of dental care generally takes care of rejuvenating missing teeth. An endodontist is actually a health care doctor that provides services for addressing ailments of the pulp as well as bone tissue of the pearly whites. An orthodontist is a health care physician that does as well as manages orthodontic therapy. He is the one in charge of alleviating issues including impairment of the bones, which leads to voids between the teeth.
You require to provide your overall dentist for all the relevant information regarding your oral health so that he can give you the right treatment for your teeth. Some of the details that you require to provide your dental expert consist of the kind of food you consume, the kind of refreshments you consume, your daily habits such as smoking cigarettes, your past files of tooth removal and filling, the number of tooth removal as well as filling up surgical treatments that you have undertaken, your household health care record consisting of the health conditions that your household members possess, and your oral record.
You will certainly be needed to offer your medical particulars to the dental practitioners that are functioning in the periodontics medical clinics or the health centers. These dental experts are going to analyze your oral health, execute a series of laboratory tests and also x-rays, advise you on a training program of oral therapies and will inform you just how several tooth removal and fillings are going to be actually needed in order to remedy the periodontal diseases or issues that you might possess.
The majority of dental experts like those dentists that have acquired advanced education and learning. Dental experts who have gotten sophisticated education or are certified through the American Dental Affiliation as well as various other similar specialist organizations normally require a minimum of one year of post degree residency in a full time academic course. Throughout this time period, these dental practitioners are supervised through each other under the oversight of a constant teacher. The requirements of getting advanced learning differ coming from one state to another. However, most conditions demand one year of post degree residency in a permitted system.
A dental expert, also got in touch with an oral specialist, is a dental medical professional that focuses in the medical diagnosis, procedure as well as protection of dental conditions as well as ailments. Dentists do fundamental treatments like eliminating plaque and tartar from the teeth as well as gum tissues.
Today, dentistry has actually turned into one of the primary line of work particularly in developed nations. Dentistry deals with all the various industries of medicine like chemotherapy and various other radiation therapies, gynecological therapies, orthopedics, podiatry, as well as much more. As a result, if you want a job in dentistry thus you may pick any sort of specialization. To come to be an expert dental practitioner, you require to accomplish a level system in dental care from a reputed institution of higher education.
Once you successfully finish your Foundation Year you will go straight onto the BSc Pharmacology and Drug Discovery.
You’ll graduate ready to pursue a career in drug design or development, within academia, the health sector or industry.
You could also choose a broader life science career, for example with a grant-funding body, charity, learned society or in academia, regulatory affairs or publishing.
We embed employability skills throughout the course with sessions developing CVs, interview techniques, presentation skills, team-working, research and business skills.
For entrepreneurial students who, in the future, want to turn their work into a business, there are dedicated facilities on the Norwich Research Park, with state-of-the-art lab and office spaces right on our doorstep.
You’ll experience a variety of assessment methods throughout the course, which we’ll prepare you for with guidance and formative assessments (where you get feedback on your work before submitting the final piece). And we’ll provide you with detailed feedback to ensure you continue to achieve your full potential.
Your foundation year will equip you with all the chemistry, biology and mathematics skills you need to thrive on the BSc Pharmacology and Drug Discovery.
Jun Mei Hu Frisk | Externwebben
Jun Mei Hu Frisk
I am in my first year of PhD. My main interests are: how does thymidine kinase I excrete into blood in cancer patients and enzymes involved in dTMP synthesis.
During my study at Uppsala university, it is fascinated to get into deep knowledge of different diseases and their molecular mechanisms. As a fresh student after finishing my master programme in Biotechnology, I aimed to join scientific world. With close touch with many scientists, I realize that it needs great ambition, endurable effort and sophistic technique to achieve my goal, I think I am ready for the great challenges.
biomedical basic course
Mainly, i am interested in different enzymes involving the synthesizing pathway of dTTP and their correlation to diseases. Right now, we are focusing on dTMP kinase and Thyimdine kinase 1/2.
In my routine work, I actively perform experimental research by applying different molecular
methods, such as western blot, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunohistochemistry, molecular cloning, and bioinformatics. Protein, DNA and RNA preparations are frequently carried out in my research. I have very good experiences on different cell cultures and also I have used bacteria as a model for studying diseases.
I have finished my Master programme in Biotechnology at
Uppsala University (UU) 2015 autumn
I worked as a project student at Immunology group of
Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology (IMBIM) at UU since January, 2016 to 2018 august. I have studied allergic diseases and how different factors affect mast cells´ homeostasis and function.Signalling pathway of MAP kinases is one of important projects I have carried out. In order to address our scientific questions, we are using mainly murine mast cells derived from bone marrow stem cells (BMMC) as a model, sometimes also human lung cells and skin biopsies from patients and mice.
Liya, Wang
Staffan, Eriksson
Gunnar Peljer
Acidic pH is essential for maintaining mast cell secretory granule homeostasis Cell Death & Disease volume 8, page e2785 (2017) doi:10.1038/cddis.2017.206
Sandra Jenkins | GP in Somerset
General practice nurse, Taunton Road Surgery, Bridgwater
I qualified in 1990 and I started my training in 1987, so 31 years! I have always been a nurse in Somerset, never anywhere else. In different teams such as the diabetes teams, but in general practice since 2007.
What's the nicest part of your job?
The variety. I love not knowing what I'm going to come in and see. I love the fact it's so different and varied. I like that every patient is different and the challenges I'm faced with every day. The beauty of primary care is that I might have set appointments but I have time.
I think in primary care the NHS is run by a lot of love. I think sometimes you just don't have enough time, the problems they're having in secondary care means you get the backwash come back to primary care. It's so different even to four years ago. I enjoy it, I like that it's a familial thing. You see people all the time, you see their aunties, their grannies, their kids, mums, dads, everyone. You build up a really good relationship with them. It's sometimes hard living and working in the same place because you tend to see people on the street, but as long as you keep everything separate it's not normally an issue.
From a mental health point of view, I think that is one of the biggest problems, not just in Somerset but in the whole of the UK. Mental health with children, adults, anybody… there's just not enough mental health resources. So it's really difficult. Everyone is under pressure, not just the doctors or the hospitals but the patients themselves.
