Whether it was to highlight a questionable advantage over a “me-too” competitor drug or to increase disease awareness among the medical community (particularly in so called invented diseases) and in turn increase product penetration in the market, the truth is that these studies had more marketing than science behind them.
Since marketing claims needed to be backed-up scientifically, we occasionally resorted to “playing” with the data that had originally failed to show the expected result. This was done by altering the statistical method until any statistical significance was found. Such a result might not have supported the marketing claim, but it was always worth giving it a go to see what results you could produce. And it was possible because the protocols of post-marketing studies were lax, and it was not a requirement to specify any statistical methodology in detail. On the other hand, the studies were hypothesis testing (such as cohort studies, case-control studies) rather than hypothesis generating (such as case reports or adverse events reports), so playing with the data felt uncomfortable.
Other practices to ensure the marketing message was clear in the final publication included omission of negative results, usually in secondary outcome measures that had not been specified in the protocol, or inflating the importance of secondary outcome measures if they were positive when the primary measure was not.”
By creating, through marketing, a new definition for the starting point or onset of an illness, drug companies are developing a larger market to sell to. Money talks.
Archives of Sexuality & Gender: LGBTQ History and Culture since 1940 (Series) - University of Manitoba Libraries
The series Archives of Sexuality & Gender: LGBTQ History and Culture since 1940 represents a set of related resources, especially of a specified kind, found in University of Manitoba Libraries.
The Resource Archives of Sexuality & Gender: LGBTQ History and Culture since 1940
100+ Items in the Series Archives of Sexuality & Gender: LGBTQ History and Culture since 1940
A Dialogue between the sexes : men, women and AIDS prevention
A Formative evaluation of the AIDS education materials, 16th April to 17th July, 1991, evaluators, D.M.C. Nyirenda and D.R. Jere
A Technical assessment of the Botswana HIV/AIDS prevention project, technical assessment team, Mr. Taka Mudariki, Dr. Eva Procek, Dr. Margaret Scarlett, Dr. David Wilson ; commissioned by USAID/BOTSWANA
A novel DNA-based vaccine methodology for AIDS, principal investigator, Joel R. Haynes, Ph.D. ; prepared for Commander, U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command
A response to recent questions about latex condom effectiveness in preventing sexual transmission of the AIDS virus, the Program for Appropriate Technology in Health (PATH)
AFR/TR/HPN HIV/AIDS prevention in Africa (HAPA) grants program : final project evaluation : PVO HIV/AIDS prevention in Africa, Swaziland, February, 1990 through February, 1991
AIDS briefs : integrating HIV/AIDS into sectoral planning, Tony Barnett, Erik Blas, Alan Whiteside, series editors
AIDS control and prevention project/Jamaica : review of activities for each target group
AIDS education : lessons from international health
AIDS education and prevention program : internal review : (final report), review team, Dr. César Lip, Dr. Jorge Sánchez, Dr. Oswaldo Lazo, Dr. Wilfredo Solís
AIDS in Ethiopia, prepared by Epidemiology and AIDS Department, Ministry of Health
AIDS knowledge and attitudes ... : data from the National Health Interview Survey, by Charlotte A. Schoenborn, M.P.H., Shannon L. Marsh, and Ann M. Hardy, Dr.P.H., Division of Health Interview Statistics
AIDS knowledge and attitudes of Black Americans : provisional data from the 1988 National Health Interview Survey, Deborah A. Dawson, Ph.D. and Ann M. Hardy, Dr.P.H., Division of Health Interview Statistics
AIDS prevention and control project : India
AIDS surveillance and education project (492-0473) : mid-term evaluation
AIDS surveillance and education project (492-0473) : project paper
AIDSCAP : 1994 annual report
AIDSCAP : summary of accomplishments, September 1994
AIDSCAP : technical assessment of HIV/AIDS in El Salvador : a report to the US Agency for International Development, San Salvador, El Salvador, prepared by Paula E. Hollerbach, Ph D, Research Officer, AIDSCAP Behavioral Research Unit, J. Todd Weber, MD, Medical Epidemiologist, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Division of HIV/AIDS, Victoria E. Wells, MD, Dr PH, Director of Epidemiology, City of Cincinnati Health Department ; with the assistance of M. Ricardo Calderon, MD, MPH, AIDSCAP LA/C Regional Director
AIDSCAP : the technical strategy
AIDSCAP program review : Kenya, November 13-20, 1995, review team, Ms. Sheila Mitchell, AIDSCAP/HQ, Dr. Godfrey Sikipa, AIDSCAP/AfRO, Ms. Janet Hayman, AIDSCAP/Kenya, Ms. Neen Altrutz, USAID/Kenya, Mr. Oscar Picazo, USAID/REDSO/ESA
AIDSCOM : "a generation free of AIDS" : developing AIDS education materials for public and private schools of Malawi, John David Dupree, AIDSCOM, (poster presentor), EN Mkwinda, Ministry of Education, Malawi, JA Kalilani, AIDS Control Programme, Ministry of Health, Malawi
AIDSCOM : Malâwi implementation plan, William E. Mackie, John David Dupree
AIDSCOM : sociodemographic predictors of AIDS related knowledge and practice in Uganda, Susan McCombie, AIDSCOM/University of Pennsylvania (poster presentor), Shem Bukombi, Experiment in International Living/Kampala, Francis Kwakagiri, Federation of Uganda Employers, Kampala, Paul Cohn, USAID, Kampala
ALGA : Association of Lesbian and Gay Asians
ALÁFIA : jornal do povo do axé
AMALGM
AP : the newsletter
APT-itudes : the official newsletter of the Atlanta Prime Timers, Atlanta Prime Timers
Abend [lambda] blatt
Accomplishments in HIV/AIDS programs : highlights from the USAID HIV/AIDS program, 1995-1997
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome education and prevention : Peru
Action : a publication of the Right to Privacy Committee
Adopting the female condom in Kenya and Brazil : perspectives of women and men : a synthesis
Context of Archives of Sexuality & Gender: LGBTQ History and Culture since 1940
"Training of trainers for AIDS education" : HAPA grant final evaluation report
A Formative evaluation of the AIDS education materials, 16th April to 17th July, 1991
A Technical assessment of the Botswana HIV/AIDS prevention project
A novel DNA-based vaccine methodology for AIDS
A response to recent questions about latex condom effectiveness in preventing sexual transmission of the AIDS virus
A.I.D.'s experience with contraceptive social marketing : a synthesis of project evaluation findings
Include leeks, shallots, onions, and garlic all contain pungent sulphur compounds that reduce inflammation.
Include Omega-3 Fatty Acid Foods Include; flaxseed oil, fish oil, chia seeds, walnuts, fish roe (eggs), fatty fish, seafood, oysters, soybeans, and spinach. These “good fats” lower inflammation.
Stay As Active As Possible – Walking, swimming, Qigong, and dancing. A physical therapist can help you develop a regular exercise plan that you can stick with—one that isn’t overwhelming.
Mind-Body Therapies – Participate in meditation, yoga, and tai chi, these therapies can help in coping with pain.
Acupuncture – This ancient Chinese medical practice seeks to relieve pain by balancing the body’s natural energy pathways. Results from a number of studies suggest that acupuncture may help ease types of pain that are often chronic.
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) – A type of talking therapy that combines cognitive therapy (examining the things you think) and behaviour therapy (examining the things you do) and focuses on how thoughts, beliefs and attitudes affect feelings and behaviour and aims to teach coping skills to help deal with problems.
Energetic Medicine – Tennant Biomodulator® uses Biofeedback and Neuromodulation technology designed to stimulate the body’s natural release of nitric oxide, endorphins, and neuropeptides into the blood stream, and increases ATP (voltage) in the cells.
The Biomodulator works by giving the cells the energy they are lacking. When the cells are restored to their optimal level of voltage the body can heal itself. Nitric oxide causes vascular dilation and thereby increases blood circulation.
Progressive Muscle Relaxation – In progressive muscle relaxation, you tense a group of muscles as you breathe in, and you relax them as you breathe out. You work on your muscle groups in a certain order.
Picturing something in your mind and actually doing it are experienced as the same thing by your brain. In fact, brain scans have verified that this is the case.
Visual imagery can have a direct effect on your nervous, endocrine, and immune systems. Soothing, peaceful images can slow your pulse and breathing and lower your blood pressure.
They also trigger the release of endorphins. Endorphins interact with the receptors in your brain that reduce your perception of pain. Endorphins also trigger a positive feeling in the body.
The electrical stimulation helps the body block pain signals from travelling to the brain and assists in the production of natural painkillers called endorphins.
TENS therapy is a drug-free, non-invasive, and fast means for pain-relief that has been used in clinics for decades. TENS therapy made its way into patients’ homes after it was adapted from a clinic machine to a hand-held unit for patients to use anywhere.
Trauma Release Exercises (or TRE®) – TRE® is a self-empowering trauma recovery process. It’s also known as neurogenic tremors.
It consists of simple yet innovative series of exercises that assist the body in releasing deep muscular patterns of stress, tension, and trauma.
The process involves four stages: first a set of movements and exercises that work on particular muscles groups to create a modest amount of tension through those muscles. This tension invites the body’s natural tremor response.
Thirdly, we stop tremoring; in fact, one of the first things we do when we learn to begin tremoring is how to stop.
Volume 2021 |Article ID 8864522 | https://doi.org/10.1155/2021/8864522
Figen Sarigul Yildirim, Murat Sayan, Tamer Sanlidag, Berna Uzun, Dilber Uzun Ozsahin, Ilker Ozsahin, "Comparative Evaluation of the Treatment of COVID-19 with Multicriteria Decision-Making Techniques", Journal of Healthcare Engineering, vol. 2021, Article ID 8864522, 11 pages, 2021. https://doi.org/10.1155/2021/8864522
Figen Sarigul Yildirim ,1 Murat Sayan ,2,3 Tamer Sanlidag,3,4 Berna Uzun,3,5 Dilber Uzun Ozsahin ,3,6 and Ilker Ozsahin 3,6
1Health Science University, Antalya Education and Research Hospital, Department of Infectious Diseases and Clinical Microbiology, Antalya 07050, Turkey
2Faculty of Medicine, Clinical Laboratory, PCR Unit, Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Turkey
3DESAM Institute, Near East University, 99138 Nicosia/TRNC, Mersin 10, Turkey
5Department of Mathematics, Near East University, 99138 Nicosia/TRNC, Mersin 10, Turkey
6Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Near East University, 99138 Nicosia/TRNC, Mersin 10, Turkey
Objectives. The outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was first reported in December 2019. Until now, many drugs and methods have been used in the treatment of the disease. However, no effective treatment option has been found and only case-based successes have been achieved so far. This study aims to evaluate COVID-19 treatment options using multicriteria decision-making (MCDM) techniques. Methods. In this study, we evaluated the available COVID-19 treatment options by MCDM techniques, namely, fuzzy PROMETHEE and VIKOR. These techniques are based on the evaluation and comparison of complex and multiple criteria to evaluate the most appropriate alternative. We evaluated current treatment options including favipiravir (FPV), lopinavir/ritonavir, hydroxychloroquine, interleukin-1 blocker, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and plasma exchange. The criteria used for the analysis include side effects, method of administration of the drug, cost, turnover of plasma, level of fever, age, pregnancy, and kidney function. Results. The results showed that plasma exchange was the most preferred alternative, followed by FPV and IVIG, while hydroxychloroquine was the least favorable one. New alternatives could be considered once they are available, and weights could be assigned based on the opinions of the decision-makers (physicians/clinicians). The treatment methods that we evaluated with MCDM methods will be beneficial for both healthcare users and to rapidly end the global pandemic. The proposed method is applicable for analyzing the alternatives to the selection problem with quantitative and qualitative data. In addition, it allows the decision-maker to define the problem simply under uncertainty. Conclusions. Fuzzy PROMETHEE and VIKOR techniques are applied in aiding decision-makers in choosing the right treatment technique for the management of COVID-19.
Since December 2019, when coronavirus disease (COVID-19) incidents were first reported in Wuhan, China, an increasing number of cases have been reported in all countries on all continents except Antarctica. It exceeded the rate of the number of COVID-19 patients, thus prompting the World Health Organization to declare COVID-19 as an epidemic [1]. The virus that causes COVID-19 is called the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). As of December 15, 2020, there were around 71,000,000 confirmed cases and 1,600,000 confirmed deaths all over the world [1].
The virus is released from respiratory secretions when an infected person speaks, sneezes, or coughs. When other people come into direct contact with these droplets, they become infected. If those who touch the surface of the virus then touch the mouth, nose, and eyes, the infection can be transmitted to other people [2–4]. The exact incubation time is unknown. It is assumed that it is between 2 and 14 days after exposure, and most cases occur within 5 days after exposure [5, 6]. Often most infections are self-limited. It may cause more serious illness in the elderly population and those with underlying medical disease [7]. According to current statistics, the most common clinical features at the onset of illness are fever in 88%, fatigue in 38%, dry cough in 67%, myalgias in 14.9%, and dyspnea in 18.7% [8]. Pneumonia is the most common complication. Severe cases have a mortality rate of 2.3 to 5% [7].
To date, there are no proven specific treatments for patients with the new virus other than supportive care. In China, Italy, France, Spain, Turkey, and now the USA, a large number of patients have received off-label and compassionate use therapies [1]. Therefore, various options have been used to fight the virus so far. Three general methods are used, including current broad-spectrum drugs, immunoenhancement therapy, and viral-specific plasma globulin. Many drugs such as chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, interferon (IFN), favipiravir (FPV), remdesivir, and lopinavir/ritonavir have been used in patients with SARS or Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), but the effectiveness of some drugs remains controversial [9–15]. Synthetic recombinant interferon α, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) (an immunomodulator), tocilizumab, and interleukin-1 blocker are used in immunoenhancement therapy [13, 14, 16]. Convalescent plasma therapy was thought to be an effective way to alleviate the course of the disease for seriously infected patients, and successful results were obtained in patients on whom this treatment was attempted [17, 18].
These treatment methods have largely been administered in an uncontrolled manner, with the exception of a few randomized trials launched in China and recently in the USA [19]. Hence, it is not possible to make the interpretation that if the patient dies, they die from the disease, but if the patient survives, this is because of the drug given. All methods have some advantages and disadvantages. For example, chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, and lopinavir-ritonavir have several negative effects, including QT prolongation, hepatitis, acute pancreatitis, neutropenia, and anaphylaxis [20, 21]. Agents that have been used less frequently in the past (e.g., remdesivir) can cause serious negative effects that have not been detected previously due to the limited number of exposed patients [22, 23]. Interleukin blockers may cause immunosuppression, increasing the risk of sepsis, bacterial pneumonia, and hepatotoxicity [24, 25].
The rapid and simultaneous combination of supportive care and randomized control studies is the only way to find effective and safe treatments for COVID-19 and other future outbreaks. In one open-label nonrandomized control study, FPV had significantly better outcomes for disease progression and viral clearance; these results should provide an important advance in creating standard treatment guidelines for combating SARS-CoV-2 infection [26].
Decision-making models are the supportive systems that will give the necessary information to decision-makers about the alternatives and their features. PROMETHEE and VIKOR techniques are commonly used analytical multicriteria decision-making techniques that rank the alternatives under the conflicting criteria successfully applied in many fields among the other techniques. VIKOR method ranks alternatives giving the compromise solution, which is the closest to the ideal solution. PROMETHEE method gives a comparison to the alternatives based on the pairwise comparison. As opposed to other methods, PROMETHEE gives more choices to the decision-maker for defining the preference function for each criterion specifically. This makes the PROMETHEE method more sensitive in ranking the alternatives.
After the fuzzy set theory has been proposed and defined by Zadeh in 1965, the hybrid models of the classical models, fuzzy-based models, have been studied by researchers in many fields. Since there is no crisp difference between many objects and cases in the real world, it has been obtained that defining and modeling the problems using fuzzy sets can create a more sensitive model to real-world problems. And fuzzy-based MCDM techniques allow the decision-makers to analyze the alternatives even with linguistic data; it is more suitable for many cases where the numerical data are not available.
Fuzzy logic has shed light to integrate human opinion into decision-making problems [27]. In 2000, Warren et al. [28] showed the applicability of the fuzzy logic in modeling the vagueness of the treatment based on the clinical guideline knowledge to support the decision-makers in clinical practices. In 2012, Consenza [29] proposed the fuzzy expert system to provide the optimal amount of the insulin unit that should be taken before the meal for the type-1 diabetes patients corresponding to the characteristic of the food. In 2017, Santini et al. [30] proposed a fuzzy-based tool in order to manage and monitor the clinical status of β-thalassemia patients. This study has given exemplary results on the online determination of iron overload while monitoring the health conditions of β-thalassemia patients. In 2019, Akram and Adeel [31] discussed the hybrid model of the hesitant m-polar fuzzy sets. They provided the application of the hesitant m-polar fuzzy TOPSIS technique to rank and select the best alternative under m-polar fuzzy set positive and negative ideal solution for a multicriteria group decision. In 2020, Akram et al. [32] proposed Dombi aggregation operators for decision-making under m-polar fuzzy information. They tested their operation validity for obtaining the best agricultural land and the best bank with its performance. They also compared their technique with the ELECTRE-I method and they found that the optimal alternative is the same by applying the ELECTRE-I method. Garg et al. [27] proposed a new fuzzy operation compared with the Yager operation for Fermatean fuzzy numbers, and they applied this technique to obtain a ranking result for the COVID-19 testing facilities. In 2020, Akram et al. [33] presented new aggregation operators such as Fermatean fuzzy Einstein weighted averaging, Fermatean fuzzy Einstein ordered weighted averaging, generalized Fermatean fuzzy Einstein weighted averaging, and generalized Fermatean fuzzy Einstein ordered weighted averaging to cumulate the Fermatean fuzzy data in decision-making environments which has more flexible structure than the intuitionistic and Pythagorean fuzzy sets. They applied these techniques for the COVID-19 sanitizer selection problem.
Thus far, we have used a multicriteria decision-making (MCDM) technique called fuzzy PROMETHEE to compare the confusion regarding the choice of effective treatment practices using the following guidelines, to make a mutual comparison between selected treatment methods, and to determine the strongest one [34–38]. The PROMETHEE technique was developed by Brans and Vincle in 1985 [39]. Since then, it has been used successfully as an MCDM technique in many fields [40], and recently, it has been applied in the field of material selection, medicine, and healthcare [41–50], as well as it was selected as a proper COVID-19 diagnosis tool [51]. VIKOR is another commonly used MCDM technique that determines the order of alternatives under conflicting criteria based on the closeness to the ideal solution [52]. It provides the maximum group utility and the minimum individual regret for determining the compromise solution of the decision-making problem. Fuzzy logic was first presented in 1965 by Zadeh in order to define vague conditions or linguistic data mathematically [53]. A fuzzy logic-based clinical decision support system for the evaluation of renal function in posttransplant patients has been implemented successfully [54]. The analytic hierarchy process (AHP), which is another methodology based on both mathematical and psychological approaches with a similar purpose as PROMETHEE and VIKOR, is exploited to analyze and solve complex problems, in order to make the best decision. Some examples of the application of AHP in healthcare and health technologies can be found in [55–57].
The data of the COVID-19 treatment techniques contain quantitative and qualitative data of multicriteria with different importance weights which cannot be simply evaluated by the decision-makers. Therefore, we have applied two of the successfully used analytical MCDM techniques. Both of the techniques give consistent ranking results as expected. Besides, by applying the PROMETHEE method, we are able to see the positive and negative sides of each alternative.
In this study, the use of fuzzy scale based on fuzzy logic has enabled the experts to express qualitative data such as side effects, applicability, and compliance of COVID-19 treatment techniques meaningfully to be included in the model. It is also used to express the degrees of importance assigned to the criteria more easily and with the common sense of the experts.
SARS-CoV-2 is an enveloped, positive, single-strand RNA beta-coronavirus and is structurally similar to SARS-CoV-1 and MERS [58]. There are two overlapping hypotheses in the pathogenesis of the disease: triggered by the virus itself and the host response. There is significant confusion regarding the therapeutic approaches used in COVID-19. Currently, it is imperative to distinguish between the phase of viral pathogenicity and the phase in which the host inflammatory response is predominant in terms of the timing of the agent to be used in the treatment. In this case, different methods have been used to treat COVID-19 at different stages of the disease. However, scientists and real-life data have demonstrated that it is more beneficial to start many treatments early [12].
We have chosen the methods that have been most frequently used since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chloroquine, an antimalaria drug, is the first agent used against the COVID-19 disease. It both has an immune-modulating activity and can inhibit this virus with an in vitro effect [10]. It has been proven in a clinically controlled study that chloroquine, an antimalarial drug, is effective in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 [59]. Since the side effects of hydroxychloroquine are lower than chloroquine, the use of hydroxychloroquine has been preferred in the treatment of COVID-19 [60]. In COVID-19 patients, hydroxychloroquine allows the viral nasopharyngeal carriage of SARS-CoV-2 to be cleared in just three to six days [61]. Its effect is reinforced by azithromycin, an antibacterial agent [61]. Azithromycin is used to treat or prevent certain bacterial infections, predominantly those causing middle ear infections, throat, pneumonia, typhoid, bronchitis, and sinusitis [62]. Azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine have the side effect of QT prolongation (that can cause sudden death).
Remdesivir, a terminate of viral RNA transcription, has in vitro activity against SARS-CoV-2 [63]. It was originally used for the treatment of the Ebola virus disease and Marburg virus infections. One of the side effects of remdesivir is hepatotoxicity.
FPV selectively inhibits RNA-bound RNA polymerase of RNA viruses and has been approved for new influenza therapy since 2014 [64]. It is also hepatotoxic.
Lopinavir and ritonavir are antiretroviral protease inhibitors that have been used in combination for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus infection since 2000 [65]. This has reduced the replication by 50% in the MERS coronavirus in vitro [66]. The most common side effects are gastrointestinal problems such as nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Oseltamivir is a neuraminidase enzyme inhibitor used for influenza. In fact, many patients with COVID-19 symptoms might have influenza. Therefore, it is better to give this medicine to prevent the patient from getting worse [66].
Interferon is a broad-spectrum antiviral agent that acts by interacting with toll-like receptors and inhibits viral replication [67] and anti-SARS-CoV-1 activity in vitro [68].
Tocilizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that acts as an IL-6 receptor antagonist and is used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Interleukin-6 was reported to be released considerably in SARS and MERS patients and might play a role in the pathogenesis of these diseases [69]. In COVID-19 patients, higher plasma levels of cytokines have also been found [69].
IVIG might be the safest immunomodulator for long-term use in patients of all ages and could help to inhibit the production of proinflammatory cytokines and increase the production of anti-inflammatory mediators [13].
While evaluating these methods, we used different criteria that were selected based on the doctors, the treatment methods, and the host. Regime cost, side effects, number of tablets, dose frequency, treatment duration, plasma stability, plasma turnover, time of suppression, practicability, intravenous form, oral form, and drug-drug interaction were chosen as the treatment method-related criteria. Age, pregnancy, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), compliance, fever, pneumonia, intensive care, organ failure, macrophage activation syndrome, and the hemophagocytic syndrome were chosen as the host-related criteria. These are symptoms and phases of diseases in COVID patients. False prescription and inefficient drug combination were chosen as the doctor-related criteria. All of these factors are important when selecting treatment methods for COVID-19 patients.
2.2. Fuzzy-Based MCDM Models
Ranking the fuzzy numbers contains the main problematic part of the decision-making problems under the fuzzy environment. This process is also the most important stage of the decision-making process since it simplifies the complexity of the problem. Comparison of the fuzzy numbers has practical applications in optimization, forecasting, decision-making, and approximate reasoning. Real-world decision problems often involve uncertain conditions of the properties of alternatives, and fuzzy numbers allow the decision-maker to be used in the analysis by taking these uncertain conditions into account. There are many types of fuzzy-based MCDM models available for different aims, and there are many studies that present different techniques for the comparison of the fuzzy numbers [70–72]. Although the centroid concept has been applied in many fields and has been known for hundreds of years, first in 1980, Yager proposed the centroid method for the comparison of the fuzzy numbers [73]. After Yager, there have been many studies that used this method for the construction of the individually defined ranking index [74–76]. Some of these researchers have used the value of x alone, while some of them used a combination of x and y values to obtain their own ranking index that depends on the centroid concept. There are also some research studies that aim to produce the most suitable or correct centroid value formula [77, 78] for the usage of the ranking index. These research studies provide valuable information for comparing the fuzzy numbers that depend on the centroid approaches. However, some studies found that the Yager index has great potential in fuzzy optimization [79]. In our study, some of the criteria, such as side effects, were defined by the experts using the linguistic fuzzy scale since no crisp values are available for those criteria. Furthermore, fuzzy data of the defined parameters have been compared using the centroid concept, defined by the Yager index, which is successfully applied and confirmed by many researchers. If we could have used different fuzzy models most probably, we will obtain the same ranking results.
2.3. Fuzzy PROMETHEE
In real-world problems, one of the major challenges involves the collection of crisp data to analyze systems. In 1965, Zadeh laid the foundations for the idea of establishing a rule functioning and then transferring it to a machine by making use of human life experiences and various kinds of knowledge. Fuzzy logic can be defined as a decision mechanism design in its simplest form. It allows decision-makers to identify vague conditions and analyze the systems using linguistic data if it is needed [53].
MCDM is a research area that involves the analysis of various available choices in a situation or research area, which spans daily life, social sciences, engineering, medicine, and many other areas.
MCDM analyzes the alternatives (qualitatively or quantitatively) involved in a criterion that makes the alternatives a favorable or unfavorable choice for a particular application and attempts to compare this criterion based on the selected criteria against every other available option in an attempt to support the decision-maker when selecting an option with maximum advantages without negotiation.
PROMETHEE is an MCDM tool that allows a user to analyze and rank accessible alternatives according to the criteria of each alternative. It compares the available alternatives based on the selected criteria [39]. The PROMETHEE technique is a valuable and sensitive MCDM technique for reasons that include the following:(i)PROMETHEE can be used to handle qualitative and quantitative criteria simultaneously(ii)PROMETHEE deals with fuzzy relations, vagueness, and uncertainties(iii)PROMETHEE is easy to handle and provides the user with maximum control over the preference of the alternatives with regard to the criteria
When using PROMETHEE, only two types of information are required from the decision-maker: information regarding the importance weights of the selected criteria and the preference function to be used in comparing the alternatives' contribution with regard to each criterion.
Different preference functions (Pj) are available on PROMETHEE for the definition of different criteria. The preference function defines assigning values to the ranking of two alternatives (a and at) in relation to specific criteria and a preference degree of the limit between 0 and 1 [39]. The preference functions for practical purposes that can be used at the discretion of the decision-maker include the usual function, V-shape function, level function, u-shape function, linear function, and Gaussian function [39]. A complete explanation of the preference functions used, their ranking, and how to make a decision on which function best suits a scenario was presented by Brans et al. [39].
In the PROMETHEE analysis, after collecting the criteria of the alternatives, the preference function pj (d) for each criterion j should be defined, and the importance weight of each criterion = (, , …, ) should be determined. Normalization of the weights or equality of weights can be chosen by the decision-maker based on the application. Then, for every alternative pair (at, at' A), the outranking relation should be determined as seen inAnd the positive outranking flow of and the negative outranking flow of should be calculated as seen inwhere n denotes the number of options, and each option is compared to the n − 1 number of alternatives. The positive outranking flow is an illustration of how a particular alternative is greater than the other options. The higher the positive outranking flow of a particular alternative is, the greater the possibilities are. The negative outranking flow is an expression of how a particular alternative is less preferred compared to the other alternatives. The lower the negative outranking value is, the greater the alternatives are [1–9, 16]. PROMETHEE gives a partial preorder of the alternatives as seen in equation (3).
is preferred to alternative () if
is indifferent to alternative () if
is incomparable to ) if
Using PROMETHEE II, the net flow of an alternative can be calculated withAnd the net ranking results of the alternatives can be found by
The better alternative is the one with the higher value (32).
In this study, we proposed the use of the fuzzy-based PROMETHEE technique for the evaluation of the available treatment options for COVID-19. The selected treatment options are favipiravir (FPV), remdesivir, "lopinavir/ritonavir," "hydroxychloroquine," "oseltamivir + hydroxychloroquine," "hydroxychloroquine + azithromycin," interleukin-1 blocker, tocilizumab, "interferon," intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and plasma exchange. The selected criteria of the alternatives and the importance weight with fuzzy scale can be seen in Table 1. The data and the weights of the criteria have been collected by the experts.
Linguistic scale for evaluation Triangular fuzzy scale Importance ratings of criteria
Very high (VH) (0.75, 1, 1) Side effects, regime cost, number of tablets, dose frequency, treatment duration, plasma stability, plasma turnover, time of suppression, practicability, drug-drug interaction, compliance, fever, pneumonia, intensive care, organ failure, macrophage activation syndrome, hemophagocytic syndrome
Important (H) (0.50, 0.75, 1) Age, pregnancy, GFR
Medium (M) Intravenous form, oral form, false prescription
Low (L) Inefficient drug combination
Very low (VL) -
Criteria of the COVID-19 treatment options and their importance weights with fuzzy linguistic scale.
The Yager index was used for the defuzzification of the fuzzy scale. Lastly, the PROMETHEE-Gaia decision lab program with Gaussian preference functions has been used for the evaluation.
2.4. Fuzzy VIKOR
The basis of the VIKOR (Multicriteria Optimization and Compromise Solution) method is based on the determination of a compromise solution in the light of alternatives and within the scope of the evaluation criteria. This compromise solution has been determined as the closest solution to the ideal solution [80, 81]. With the expression of a compromise solution, it is understood that by creating a multicriteria ranking index for alternatives, the closest decision is made to the ideal solution under certain conditions. Under the assumption that each alternative is evaluated on the basis of decision-making criteria, consensus ranking is achieved by comparing the values of proximity to the ideal alternative [82]. This technique is also based on obtaining the ranking results of alternatives with maximum group benefit and therefore minimum regret of individuals.
After constructing the decision matrix of the MCM problem with specifying the importance weights of each criterion, the steps of the VIKOR method can be summarized as follows.
Step 1. (determination of the best ( and the worst ( values of each criterion). The best values should be determined as the maximum point of beneficial criteria and the minimum point of the criteria that cause cost. If the criterion- is the beneficial criterion, then and can be obtained by using the following formulas: denotes the value of the j-th criterion of the i-th alternative.
Step 2. (obtaining the Utility () and Regret () values for each alternative). The utility () and regret () values of the alternative- can be calculated by using the following formulas:where denotes the importance weights of the criterion-, which represents the relative importance degrees.
Step 3. (computing the value of and ranking the alternatives accordingly). values can be obtained based on the relation given aswhere and represents the weight/level of the strategy that indicates the maximum group utility and represents the weight/level of the individual regret. The value of is most commonly used as , so as in this study.
When value (>0.5) is chosen high, it is stated that the majority tend to show a positive attitude toward index. When the value (<0.5) is chosen less, it means that the majority shows a negative attitude. In general, it is assumed that the evaluation expert groups (positive and negative) have a conciliatory attitude by selecting the y value = 0.5 [83].
The alternative with the smallest value is indicated as the best option within the group of alternatives. And, the ranking can be obtained accordingly.
However, in order to consider the alternative with a minimum value of as the best alternative with an acceptable advantage, it must meet the following conditions: Condition 1 (acceptable advantage): the acceptable advantage is the existence of a significant difference between the best and the closest options, which should be calculated as denotes the best alternative with the minimum value and denotes the second-best alternative with the second minimum . where indicates the number of the alternatives. Condition 2 (acceptable stability): should have the minimum (best) value/s of the and/or between all of the alternatives. In VIKOR, if the best alternative with the min does not satisfy one of the given conditions, then the compromise solutions set can be proposed as follows:(i)If only condition 2 is not satisfied, one has and (ii)If the first condition is not satisfied, one has , ..., where represents the maximum decision points that meet the condition
Table 2 shows the complete ranking results of the COVID-19 treatment options with the positive, negative, and net flow ranking of the alternatives. According to the table, plasma exchange and FVP outrank the other treatment options with net flows of 0.0268 and 0.0265, respectively, followed by IVIG. The least ranked COVID-treatment option is hydroxychloroquine with a net flow of −0.0502. Similarly, Figure 1 shows the strong and weak points of the COVID-19 treatment options.
Complete ranking Options Net flow Positive flow Negative flow
1 Plasma exchange 0.0268 0.0364 0.0095
2 Favipravir 0.0265 0.0361 0.0096
3 Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) 0.0199 0.0318 0.0120
4 Interleukin-1 blocker 0.0189 0.0335 0.0135
5 Tocilizumab 0.0184 0.0342 0.0158
6 Remdesivir 0.0177 0.0340 0.0162
7 Interferon 0.0139 0.0283 0.0144
8 Oseltamivir + hydroxychloroquine + azithromycin −0.0188 0.0165 0.0352
9 Lopinavir/ritonavir −0.0348 0.0239 0.0588
10 Oseltamivir + hydroxychloroquine −0.0384 0.0103 0.0487
11 Hydroxychloroquine −0.0502 0.0108 0.0609
Complete ranking of COVID-19 treatment options with PROMETHEE.
Positive and negative aspects of each COVID-19 treatment option. The higher the criterion stands in the graph in the positive side, the higher it contributes to the positive side of the technique. Similarly, the lower the criterion stands in the graph on the negative side, the higher it contributes to the negative side of the technique.
These results of the VIKOR technique validate the ranking results of the PROMETHEE technique. Using the VIKOR method, we obtained almost the same net ranking for the selected COVID-19 treatment alternatives as seen in Table 3.
Complete ranking Alternatives Qj Sj Rj
1 Plasma exchange 0 5.1 0.92
2 Favipravir 0.013387978 5.345 0.92
3 Intravenous immunoglobulin 0.050273224 6.02 0.92
4 Interleukin-1 blocker 0.093442623 6.81 0.92
5 Remdesivir 0.113934426 7.185 0.92
6 Interferon 0.116393443 7.23 0.92
7 Tocilizumab 0.125136612 7.39 0.92
8 Oseltamivir + hydroxychloroquine + azithromycin 0.310382514 10.78 0.92
9 Lopinavir/ritonavir 0.337978142 11.285 0.92
10 Oseltamivir + hydroxychloroquine 0.449726776 13.33 0.92
11 Hydroxychloroquine 0.5 14.25 0.92
Complete ranking of COVID-19 treatment options with VIKOR.
In our study, we compared the treatment applications used in COVID-19 treatment between December 2019 and March 2020 with MCDM methods. Clinical studies of the treatment methods used are still ongoing. In our study, the plasma exchange method was found to be the best method among the treatment options, similar to clinical applications. It has been suggested that plasma from cured patients should be used for treatment [84]. Indeed, healing patients often have a high level of antibodies to the pathogen present in their blood. Antibodies are immunoglobulin produced by B lymphocytes to fight pathogens and other foreign bodies, to recognize and neutralize unique molecules in pathogens [85]. Based on this, patients who recovered from COVID-19 recovered and were injected plasma into serious patients after collection and processing, and within 24 hours, there was a decrease in inflammation and viral loads as well as an improvement in oxygen saturation in the blood [86].
FVP was found to be the second-best method of treatment for COVID-19 patients. The patients who were treated with FVP showed faster viral clearance, shorter fever period, and improvement in radiological findings in Wuhan [87]. The third best one was found to be IVIG which may also play a role in the control of the immune system, where there is a high level of inflammation. Improvement in the poor prognosis stage of the disease is poor, and IVIG can be quickly recognized and applied for this treatment [13].
When we compared the methods related to the criteria, the others were interleukin-1 blocker, remdesivir, interferon, tocilizumab, oseltamivir + hydroxychloroquine + azithromycin, lopinavir/ritonavir, oseltamivir + hydroxychloroquine, and hydroxychloroquine. These criteria are very important, not only for patients but also for treatment practitioners.
The spread of COVID-19 is continuing at a rapid pace. It is very important to discover effective treatment or prophylactic agents among measures such as staying at home, hand hygiene, wearing masks, and so on to stop the pandemic. Health professionals and the global scientific community are waiting for new evidence to emerge soon to manage COVID-19. Until this evidence emerges, it is necessary to continue using the treatment methods that have shown effectiveness. The treatment methods that we evaluated with MCDM methods will be beneficial for both healthcare users and to rapidly end the global pandemic.
In this study, an average patient was considered to show the method's applicability, so the patient profile such as gender or disease stage was not included in the analysis. However, this study can be extended to include all possible factors since fuzzy PROMETHEE and VIKOR are able to support a large number of inputs. Another limitation of this study is the fact that treatment selection might be different for patients in the acute phase than those in the stable phase which was not considered in this study.
The proposed method is applicable for analyzing the alternatives to the selection problem with quantitative and qualitative data. In addition, it allows the decision-maker to define the problem simply under uncertainty. One of the limitations of this technique is that there is no method for determining the weight of the criteria. Therefore, expert opinion is of great importance in establishing criteria weights for this model to give accurate results in practical applications.
In this study, we analyzed different treatment options for COVID-19 treatment using fuzzy PROMETHEE and VIKOR methods. Overall, there is no globally approved specific antiviral drug available for COVID-19. All drug options come from the experience of treating SARS, MERS, or other new influenza viruses. Active symptomatic support is the key to treatment. The above medicines will help, and their efficacy needs further confirmation. New alternatives and criteria could be considered once they are available in the future, and weights could be assigned based on the opinions of the decision-makers (physicians/clinicians). We showed the applicability of the MCDM techniques in informing decision-makers in terms of choosing the right treatment technique for the management of COVID-19.
F. S. Y. and B. U. wrote the first draft of the manuscript. B. U., D. U. O., and I. O. analyzed the data. All the authors proposed the main ideas for the research, provided interpretations, and critically commented, revised, and approved the final manuscript.
World Health Organization, "Situation updates on March 26, 2020," 2020, https://covid19.who.int/. View at: Google Scholar
K. Kupferschmidt, "Study claiming new coronavirus can be transmitted by people without symptoms was flawed science," The Journal of Infectious Diseases, vol. 3, 2020. View at: Google Scholar
Y. Yi, P. N. P. Lagniton, S. Ye, E. Li, and R.-H. Xu, "COVID-19: what has been learned and to be learned about the novel coronavirus disease," International Journal of Biological Sciences, vol. 16, no. 10, pp. 1753–1766, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
L. Gilardin, J. Bayry, and S. V. Kaveri, "Intravenous immunoglobulin as clinical immune-modulating therapy," Canadian Medical Association Journal, vol. 187, no. 4, pp. 257–264, 2015. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
V. Kumar, Y.-S. Jung, and P.-H. Liang, "Anti-SARS coronavirus agents: a patent review (2008-present)," Expert Opinion on Therapeutic Patents, vol. 23, no. 10, pp. 1337–1348, 2013. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
S. Mustafa, H. Balkhy, and M. N. Gabere, "Current treatment options and the role of peptides as potential therapeutic components for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS): a review," Journal of Infection and Public Health, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 9–17, 2018. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
Actemra (tocilizumab), "Prescribing information. Genentech," 2019, https://www.actemrahcp.com/?_ga=2.%20137041460.509331555.1584929819-505112783. View at: Google Scholar
J. Mair-Jenkins, M. Saavedra-Campos, J. K. Baillie et al., "The effectiveness of convalescent plasma and hyperimmune immunoglobulin for the treatment of severe acute respiratory infections of viral etiology: a systematic review and exploratory meta-analysis," Journal of Infectious Diseases, vol. 211, no. 1, pp. 80–90, 2015. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
Adaptive COVID-19 treatment trial, "ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: nct04280705," 2020, https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04280705?%20Term=remdesivir&cond=covid-19&draw=2&rank=5. View at: Google Scholar
B. E. Young, S. W. X. Ong, S. Kalimuddin et al., "Epidemiologic features and clinical course of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 in Singapore novel coronavirus outbreak research team. Epidemiologic features and clinical course of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 in Singapore," Jama, vol. 323, no. 15, p. 1488, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
J. Reina, "The antiviral hope against SARS-CoV-2," Revista Española de Quimioterapia, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 176–179, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
K. Kupferschmidt and J. Cohen, "Race to find COVID-19 treatments accelerates," Science, vol. 367, no. 6485, pp. 1412-1413, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
A. C. Kalil and J. Sun, "Low-dose steroids for septic shock and severe sepsis: the use of Bayesian statistics to resolve clinical trial controversies," Intensive Care Medicine, vol. 37, no. 3, pp. 420–429, 2011. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
A. tocilizumab, "Prescribing information. Genentech," 2019, https://www.actemrahcp.com/?_ga=2.%20137041460.509331555.1584929819-505112783.%201584929819. View at: Google Scholar
Q. Cai, M. Yang, D. Liu et al., Experimental Treatment with Favipiravir for COVID-19: An Open-Label Control Study Engineering, National Library of Medicine, Beijing, China. View at: Publisher Site
H. Garg, G. Shahzadi, and M. Akram, "Decision-making analysis based on Fermatean fuzzy Yager aggregation operators with application in COVID-19 testing facility," Mathematical Problems in Engineering, vol. 2020, Article ID 7279027, 16 pages, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
J. Warren, G. Beliakov, and B. van der Zwaag, "Fuzzy logic in clinical practice decision support systems," in Proceedings of the 33rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Maui, HI, USA, 2000. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
S. Santini, "Using fuzzy logic for improving clinical daily-care of β-thalassemia patients," in Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems (FUZZ-IEEE), pp. 1–6, Naples, Italy, 2017. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
M. Akram and A. Adeel, "Novel TOPSIS method for group decision-making based on hesitant m-polar fuzzy model," Journal of Intelligent & Fuzzy Systems, vol. 37, no. 6, pp. 8077–8096, 2019. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
M. Akram, N. Yaqoob, G. Ali, and W. Chammam, "Extensions of Dombi aggregation operators for decision making under m-polar fuzzy information," Journal of Mathematics, vol. 2020, Article ID 4739567, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
M. Akram, G. Shahzadi, and A. A. H. Ahmadini, "Decision-making framework for an effective sanitizer to reduce COVID-19 under fermatean fuzzy environment," Journal of Mathematics, vol. 2020, Article ID 3263407, 19 pages, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
B. Uzun, F. Sarıgül Yıldırım, M. Sayan, T. Şanlıdağ, and D. Uzun Ozsahin, The Use Of Fuzzy Promethee Technique In Antiretroviral Combination Decision In Pediatric Hiv Treatments, IEEE Xplore, New York, NY, USA, 2019.
M. Sayan, N. Sultanoglu, B. Uzun, F. S. Yıldırım, T. Şanlıdağ, and D. U. Ozsahin, Determination of Post-Exposure Prophylaxis Regimen in the Prevention of Potential Pediatric HIV-1 Infection by the Multi-Criteria Decision-Making Theory, IEEE Xplore, New York, NY, USA, 2019.
N. Sultanoglu, B. Uzun, F. S. Yıldırım, M. Sayan, T. Şanlıdağ, and D. U. Ozsahin, Selection of the Most Appropriate Antiretroviral Medication in Determined Aged Groups (≥ 3 Years) of HIV-1 Infected Children, IEEE Xplore, New York, NY, USA, 2019.
M. Sayan, T. Sanlidag, N. Sultanoglu, B. Uzun, F. S. Yildirim, and D. U. Ozsahin, "Evaluating the efficacy of adult HIV post exposure prophylaxis regimens in relation to transmission risk factors by multi criteria decision method," in Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, R. Aliev, J. Kacprzyk, W. Pedrycz, M. Jamshidi, M. Babanli, and F. Sadikoglu, Eds., vol. 1095, Springer, Cham, Switzerland, 2020. View at: Google Scholar
M. Sayan, D. Uzun Ozsahin, T. Sanlidag, N. Sultanoglu, F. Sarigul Yildirim, and B. Uzun, "Efficacy evaluation of antiretroviral drug combinations for HIV-1 treatment by using the fuzzy PROMETHEE," in Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, R. Aliev, J. Kacprzyk, W. Pedrycz, M. Jamshidi, M. Babanli, and F. Sadikoglu, Eds., vol. 1095, Springer, Cham, Switzerland, 2020. View at: Google Scholar
J. P. Brans and P. Vincke, "A preference ranking Organisation method: the PROMETHEE method for MCDM," Management Science, vol. 31, no. 6, 1985. View at: Google Scholar
A. Asemi, M. S. Baba, A. Asemi, R. Abdullah, and N. Idris, "Fuzzy multi criteria decision making applications: a review study," in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Computer Engineering & Mathematical Sciences (ICCEMS 2014), Langkawi, Malaysia, 2014. View at: Google Scholar
I. Ozsahin, S. Abebe, and G. Mok, "A multi-criteria decision-making approach for schizophrenia treatment techniques," Archives of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 52–61, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
I. Ozsahin, "Identifying a personalized anesthetic with fuzzy PROMETHEE," Healthcare Informatics Research, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 201–211, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
I. Ozsahin, D. Uzun Ozsahin, M. Maisaini, and P. Mok, "Fuzzy PROMETHEE analysis of leukemia treatment techniques," 2019, https://www.wcrj.net/article/1315. View at: Google Scholar
I. Ozsahin, D. Uzun Ozsahin, K. Nyakuwanikwa, and T. Wallace Simbanegav, Fuzzy PROMETHEE for Ranking Pancreatic Cancer Treatment Techniques, IEEE Xplore, New York, NY, USA, 2019.
M. Maisaini, B. Uzun, I. Ozsahin, and D. Uzun, "Evaluating lung cancer treatment techniques using fuzzy PROMETHEE approach," in Proceedings of the 13th International Conference On Theory And Application Of Fuzzy Systems And Soft Computing — ICAFS-2018, pp. 209–215, Warsaw, Poland, 2018. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
D. Uzun Ozsahin and I. Ozsahin, "A fuzzy PROMETHEE approach for breast cancer treatment techniques," Health Sciences, vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 29–32, 2018. View at: Google Scholar
D. Uzun, B. Uzun, M. Sani, and I. Ozsahin, "Evaluating X-ray based medical imaging devices with fuzzy preference ranking organization method for enrichment evaluations," International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, vol. 9, no. 3, 2018. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
D. Ozsahin, N. Isa, B. Uzun, and I. Ozsahin, "Effective analysis of image reconstruction algorithms in nuclear medicine using fuzzy PROMETHEE," in Proceedings of the 2018 Advances in Science and Engineering Technology International Conferences (ASET), pp. 1–5, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, 2019. View at: Google Scholar
I. Ozsahin, T. Sharif, D. U. Ozsahin, and B. Uzun, "Evaluation of solid-state detectors in medical imaging with fuzzy PROMETHEE," Journal of Instrumentation, vol. 14, no. 1, Article ID C01019, 2019. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
M. Taiwo Mubarak, I. Ozsahin, and D. Uzun Ozsahin, Evaluation of Sterilization Methods for Medical Devices, IEEE, New York, NY, USA, 2019.
M. Sayan, T. Sanlidag, U. Berna, and I. Ozsahin, "Capacity evaluation of diagnostic tests for COVID-19 using multicriteria decision-making techniques," Computational and Mathematical Methods in Medicine, vol. 2020, Article ID 1560250, 8 pages, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
N. Zhang and G. Wei, "Extension of VIKOR method for decision making problem based on hesitant fuzzy set," Applied Mathematical Modelling, vol. 37, no. 7, pp. 4938–4947, 2013. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
G. Improta, V. Mazzella, D. Vecchione, S. Santini, and M. Triassi, "Fuzzy logic-based clinical decision support system for the evaluation of renal function in post‐Transplant Patients," Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice, vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 1224–1234, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
G. mprota, G. Converso, T. Murino, G. Mosè, P. Antonietta, and R. Maria, "Analytic hierarchy process (AHP) in dynamic configuration as a tool for health technology assessment (HTA): the case of biosensing optoelectronics in oncology," International Journal of Information Technology & Decision Making, vol. 18, pp. 1533–1550, 2019. View at: Google Scholar
G. Improta, A. Perrone, M. A. Russo, and T. Maria, "Health technology assessment (HTA) of optoelectronic biosensors for oncology by analytic hierarchy process (AHP) and Likert scale," BMC Medical Research Methodology, vol. 19, p. 140, 2019. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
G. Improta, M. A. Russo, M. Triassi, G. Converso, T. Murino, and L. C. Santillo, "Use of the AHP methodology in system dynamics: modelling and simulation for health technology assessments to determine the correct prosthesis choice for hernia diseases," Mathematical Biosciences, vol. 299, pp. 19–27, 2018. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
Multicenter collaboration group of Department of Science and Technology of Guangdong Province, "Expert consensus on chloroquine phosphate for the treatment of novel coronavirus pneumonia," Zhonghua, vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 185–188, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
M. F. Marmor, U. Kellner, T. Y. Y. Lai, R. B. Melles, and W. F. Mieler, "Recommendations on screening for chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine retinopathy (2016 revision)," Ophthalmology, vol. 123, no. 6, pp. 1386–1394, 2016. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
P. Gautret, J.-C. Lagier, P. Parola et al., "Hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin as a treatment of COVID-19: results of an open-label non-randomized clinical trial," International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, vol. 56, no. 1, p. 105949, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
A. H. H. Bakheit, B. M. H. Al-Hadiya, and A. A. Abd-Elgalil, "Azithromycin," Profiles of Drug Substances, Excipients and Related Methodology, vol. 39, pp. 1–40, 2014. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
Y.-C. Cao, Q.-X. Deng, and S.-X. Dai, "Remdesivir for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 causing COVID-19: an evaluation of the evidence," Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease, vol. 35, Article ID 101647, 2020. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
Y. Furuta, K. Takahashi, M. Kuno-Maekawa et al., "Mechanism of action of T-705 against influenza virus," Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, vol. 49, no. 3, pp. 981–986, 2005. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
R. S. Cvetkovic and K. L. Goa, "Lopinavir/ritonavir," Drugs, vol. 63, no. 8, pp. 769–802, 2003. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
H. Momattin, A. Y. Al-Ali, and J. A. Al-Tawfiq, "A systematic review of therapeutic agents for the treatment of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV)," Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease, vol. 30, pp. 9–18, 2019. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
S. Uematsu and S. Akira, "Toll-like receptors and type I interferons," Journal of Biological Chemistry, vol. 282, no. 21, pp. 15319–15323, 2007. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
U. Ströher, A. DiCaro, Y. Li et al., "Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus is inhibited by interferon‐α," The Journal of Infectious Diseases, vol. 189, no. 7, pp. 1164–1167, 2004. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
R. Yager, "A procedure for ordering fuzzy subsets of the unit interval," Information Science, vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 143–161, 1981. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
X. Wang and E. E. Kerre, "Reasonable properties for the ordering of fuzzy quantities (I)," Fuzzy Sets System, vol. 118, no. 1, pp. 375–387, 2001. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
K.-P. Chiao, "A new ranking approach for general interval type-2 fuzzy sets using extended alpha cuts representation," in Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference, vol. 1, pp. 594–597, Belgrade, Serbia, 2015. View at: Google Scholar
R. R. Yager, "On a general class of fuzzy connectives," Fuzzy Sets and Systems, vol. 4, no. 6, pp. 235–242, 1980. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
C. Liang, J. Wu, and J. Zhang, Ranking Indices and Rules for Fuzzy Numbers Based on Gravity Center Point, Intelligent Control and Automation, Dalian, China, 2006.
Y.-J. Wang and H.-S. Lee, "The revised method of ranking fuzzy numbers with an area between the centroid and original points," Computers & Mathematics with Applications, vol. 55, no. 9, pp. 2033–2042, 2008. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
B. S. Shieh, "An approach to centroids of fuzzy numbers," International Journal of Fuzzy Systems, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 51–54, 2007. View at: Google Scholar
Y.-M. Wang, J.-B. Yang, D.-L. Xu, and K.-S. Chin, "On the centroids of fuzzy numbers," Fuzzy Sets and Systems, vol. 157, no. 7, pp. 919–926, 2006. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
J. C. Figueroa-Garcia, Y. Chalco-Cano, and H. Roman-Flores, "Yager index and ranking for interval type-2 fuzzy numbers," IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 2709–2718, 2018. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
J. Wei and X. Lin, "The multiple attribute decision-making VIKOR method and its application," in Proceedings of the Wireless Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing, WiCOM'08. 4th International Conference, pp. 1–4, IEEE, Dalian, China, 2008. View at: Google Scholar
[Internet] BLOOMBERG, "China seeks plasma from recovered patients as virus treatment," https://time.com/5784286/covid-19-chinaplasma-%20treatment/. View at: Google Scholar
T. R. Kreil and M. R. Farcet, "Immunoglobulins and virus antibody titers: of past needs, current requirements, and future options," Transfusion, vol. 58, no. 3, pp. 3090–3095, 2018. View at: Publisher Site | Google Scholar
J. Bryner, "Flu drug used in Japan shows promise in treating COVID-19," http://www.Livesicience.com. View at: Google Scholar
Copyright © 2021 Figen Sarigul Yildirim et al. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
Pestle kia Coursework Help fahomeworkpcbw.vatsa.info
Pestle analysis of bp ebooks in pdf, mobi, epub, with w124 1986 1993 service repair manual kia optima service repair manual dohc16 cub cadet service manual. Get the summary swot & pestlecom report delivered straight to your email inbox for free our insightful and holistic reports have helped corporate,academia and researchers to take their research forward. The hilton windhoek hotel is located in the heart of namibia's capital city and offers five restaurants and bars, event space for up to 400 and a luxurious spa.
Kia motors as a brand is evaluated in terms of its swot analysis, competition, segment, target group, positioning its tagline/slogan and. International entry and country analysis 1 motives for going international businesses venture abroad for a variety of reasons and there is a large international. Industry overview at the beginning the gas price and economy were stable, this create conducive environment for car manufacturers, vehicle sale has. Royal holloway, university of londonbusiness strategy of hyundai with respect to a fuel cell car in south koreachoon peng ngeunsoo moonsebastientawnya cheathea.
21249668 pest analysis the pest analysis is a very popular and useful tool for helping and understanding the reduction or growth of a certain market, including the position or potential the certain business has. 320 emm: manufacturing business organisations coursework 1 – report: jc decaux sid: 2880811 year: 2010 background to the company the company jc decaux was created in 1964 by jean-claude decaux who also. New york, nov 7, 2011 /prnewswire/ -- reportlinkercom announces that a new market research report is available in its catalogue: the steel market analysis, financials & forecasting 2011-2021. Automotive industry market research by marketline browse hundreds of market research reports on the global automotive industry, published by marketline.
Making quality technology accessible to everyone xiaomi was founded in 2010 by serial entrepreneur lei jun, who believes that high-quality technology doesn't need to cost a fortune. Related articles kia motors corporation swot analysis // kia motors corporation swot analysisjun2013, p1 a business analysis of kia motors corp, a motor vehicle manufacturer based in korea, is presented, focusing on the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (swot) faced by the company. Ikea home furnishings, kitchens, appliances, sofas, beds, mattresses. Home » resource centre » hr toolkit » keeping the right people » employee engagement & retention keeping the right people employee engagement & retention employee engagement illustrates the commitment and energy that employees bring to work and is a key indicator of their involvement and dedication to. Pestle analysis for kia motors pdf pestle analysis for kia motors - hvgestde read and download pestle analysis for kia motors free ebooks in pdf format .
Iii phân tích pest ( còn được gọi là phân tích pestle , pestel ở thời đại ngày nay so với trước kia trong quá. Pestle & mortar, lewes, east sussex 562 likes 28 talking about this 94 were here noodle bar, cafe, tea room, asian grocery. Pestle analysis for kia motors pdf pestle analysis for kia motors - persiede read and download pestle analysis for kia motors free ebooks in.
Well, pestle analysis for kia motors is a compilation that has various characteristic later than others you could not should know which the author is, how renowned. Wirecutter is a list of wonderful things by brian lam and friends, founded in 2011 and a part of the new york times company since 2016 have a question just ask. A toyota vellfire vl toyota's pestel/pestle analysis of external factors indicates major opportunities and a few threats in the company's remote or macro-environment. 12 érv a szakértelem és a minőség mellett műszaki információk központi szerviz akciók.
Hyundai motor company is an automotive manufacturer from seoul south korea the company was established in 1967 by founder chung ju-yung as a construction company. Az újgépkocsi-vásárlásra fókuszálva itt található az összes hazai honlap linkje, egy teljeskörű és elfogulatlan gyűjteményben innen elérheti az összes hazai autószalon honlapját, a legfrissebb akciókat, teszteket, információkat, címlistákat. Pestle analysis for kia motors scanning for pestle analysis for kia motors do you really need this pdf pestle analysis for kia motors it takes me 15 hours just to obtain the right download link, and another 7 hours to validate it internet could be.
The health properties of cranberries | The health properties of cranberries Reviews at Al-Hikmah.org
Herb Drug Interaction
Arginine | Bromelain | Carnitine | Chitosan | Creatine | Flaxseed Oil | Glucosamine | Inositol | Kudzu | Niacin | Omega 3 | Policosanol | Spirulina | Yohimbe
The health properties of cranberries
by Heather S. Oliff, PhDThe Health Properties of Cranberries Cranberry is one of the 10 most popular herbal supplements sold in the United States. It is known primarily as a simple, non-pharmacologic means to prevent or treat urinary tract infections, but scientists have recently discovered that cranberries may also prevent dental plaque.The cranberry is a bitter red berry from the low-growing plant Vaccinium macrocarpon, which is native to North America; approximately 98% of the worlds cranberry supply is cultivated in natural and artificial bogs in the northern United States and Canada.
Cranberry for urinary tract infections Urinary tract infections (UTIs) occur when the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra
How can cranberry juice help? In one research study, more than 50% of the patients diagnosed with UTI were completely relieved of symptoms after drinking 16 ounces of cranberry juice daily for three weeks. Another 20% of the patients experienced moderate improvement.Researchers originally thought that cranberry juice was making the urine more acidic, thereby killing the bacteria. However, this turned out not to be the case.It appears that cranberry juice prevents UTIs by inhibiting bacteria from adhering to the urinary tract. One of the compounds responsible for this effect is proanthocyanidin, a type of tannin. As a result, bacteria are flushed out during urination, thereby preventing infection.UTIs are typically treated with antibiotics that destroy the bacteria. Cranberry juice, therefore, provides an alternative approach to treating UTIs because it prevents the infection in the first place and eliminates the need for antibiotics.
How much and what type should I drink? Unsweetened cranberry juice is bitter and difficult for most people to drink. But the good news is that drinking 10 ounces of commercially available (sweetened) cranberry juice cocktail has been shown to reduce the incidence of UTI.Not all cranberry juice beverages contains the same amount of actual juice, though. Check the label. One clue is the word "cocktail." Cranberry juice cocktails typically contain less juice (because theyre sweetened with water and sugar) than 100% cranberry juice blends (which are sweetened with other juices).If you dont like the taste of cranberry juice drinks, one study has shown that 400 milligrams twice a day of encapsulated cranberry extract powder can also reduce the occurrence of UTIs. However, only 10 people participated in the study
Are there any side effects? There are no known side effects from drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry juice extracts at therapeutic doses. Diarrhea or mild gastrointestinal upset can occur if more than three to four liters of juice is consumed per day
Cranberry juice for dental health Soon after you brush your teeth, a thin layer of film
Putting cranberries to the test Realizing that cranberry juice prevents bacteria from adhering to the urinary tract, Dr. Ervin I. Weiss and his colleagues wondered if cranberry would have the same effect in the mouth. The researchers tested 23 different bacterial strains that live in the crevices between teeth. Rather than using whole cranberry juice, they isolated an active ingredient and used this cranberry juice constituent in the experiments. In a test tube, the bacteria were combined with the cranberry juice constituent. The researchers also combined bacteria with apple juice for comparison.Only the cranberry juice constituent was able to reverse coaggregation of a large proportion of dental plaque bacteria. Reducing the quantity of bacteria making up the plaque should thereby decrease risk for dental disease.
How much do I take? Cranberry juice cocktail is probably not suitable for oral hygiene because it is sweetened to minimize the tart taste, and sugar promotes the accumulation of plaque and the development of cavities. Although Weiss findings indicate that cranberry juice extracts may play an important role in reducing dental plaque, human studies are still necessary to confirm this potential new role for cranberries.Watch for exciting new dental care products containing cranberry juice constituents to decrease the incidence of dental disease. Until then, the only ways to effectively decrease dental plaque are to brush and floss daily and to have regular dental check-ups.
» Herbs & Supplements
» Drug Interaction
» Medical Diagnosis
» Disease & Injury
» Man Health
» Ovarian Cyst
» Dyspepsia
» Biotin
» Tailbone Fracture
» Phlebitis
» Kissing Disease
» Calf Muscle Strain
» Ulcers
» Myringotomy
» Flaxseed
» Brittle Nails
» Inositol
» Antacids
» Childbirth Vaginal
» Liver Cirrhosis
» Relieving Gas
Home | Herbs & Supplements | Medical Conditions | Women's Health | Contact Us Copyright © 2004-2011 Al-Hikmah.org, All rights reserved.
Disclaimer: Al-Hikmah.org is a website about health articles & topics and the information provided on this website is intended for informational purposes only and should not be construed as medical advice. Individuals wishing to embark on a supplement program, or engage in alternative medicine therapy, especially those who have been diagnosed with health problems and who use prescribed medication, should consult with their health practitioner beforehand. Privacy Policy - Terms of Use
Zhanlanlu Sub-District Trade Union Service Station Helps Local Enterprises Prevent Novel Coronavirus Epidemic 2020-03-13
Everyone Takes Part in Fight against Novel Coronavirus 2020-03-13
Keep a Distance of One Meter in Public Spaces 2020-03-13
Contactless Shopping Service Covers All Communities of Xicheng District 2020-03-06
Big Data and On-Site Inspection: Xicheng District Administration for Market Regulation Guides and Serves 10000 Enterprises 2020-03-06
Financial Street Community Health Service Center Gives "Care Service Packs" to Commercial Buildings 2020-03-06
Staff Members of Xicheng District Bureau of Statistics Use Big Data to Combat Coronavirus Epidemic 2020-03-06
Centralized Quarantine Site for Medical Observation: Isolated but Warm 2020-02-28
Dashilan Sub-District Offers Online Food Booking and Non-Contact Delivery Services 2020-02-28
Xicheng District Implements Policies to Help Enterprises Resume Work and Production 2020-02-28
I, a Community Worker, Serve on Anti-Epidemic Frontline 2020-02-28
Residents Go Shopping in a Supermarket with Full Supply of Daily Necessities 2020-02-28
Xicheng District's Government Departments Offer Services to Help Local Enterprises Resume Work and Production 2020-02-21
Online "Fruit and Vegetable Express" Launched: Yuetan Sub-District Creatively Guarantees Residents' Life 2020-02-21
Xicheng District's Desheng Community Health Service Center Takes Strict and Detailed Measures to Prevent and Control Epidemic 2020-02-21
Women's Volunteer Team Helps the Elderly to Go Through Coronavirus Epidemic 2020-02-21
Xicheng District's Health Sector in Vanguard of Novel Coronavirus Epidemic Prevention and Control 2020-02-14
Xicheng District's Grass Roots Join Haands in Fight against Novel Coronavirus Epidemic 2020-02-14
Property Management Enterprises of Office Buildings in Financial Street Take Strict Measures to Prevent Coronvirus Epidemic 2020-02-14
Xicheng District's Supermarkets: Adequate Supplies, Stable Prices, Strict Epidemic Prevention Measures 2020-02-14
Prednisolone, as well as prednisone these medications, belong to a drug class known as corticosteroids. The mechanism of action of synthetic corticosteroids involves inhibiting and alleviating the body’s inflammatory reaction to specific agents. The adrenal gland in mammals including dogs produces a corticosteroid called ‘cortisol’-a stress-relieving hormone that helps prevent inflammation and regulate blood pressure.
The synthetic corticosteroid prednisone can impersonate cortical produced naturally by mammalians and is four times more effective than the latter. So it does not bear emphasis that this corticosteroid can ward off inflammatory ailments much better than cortisol. Vets prescribe Prednisolone when the dog’s body is unable to produce the hormone in sufficient quantity for fighting inflammatory agents.
Appropriate Dosage of Prednisone/Prednisolone for Dogs
There’s no one-size-fits-all dosage; the amount to be administered by and large depends upon the disorder and severity of symptoms. The usual dosage of Prednisolone or prednisone varies from 0.1mg-0.3mg/lb (0.2-0.6mg/kg) to be given twice every 24 hours. However if your dog is suffering from an autoimmune condition like Lupus, then the vet might instruct you to offer 1-3 mg/lb (2-6mg/kg) thrice daily.
The number of days that you’ll need to administer prednisone will for the most part depend upon the disorder being dealt with. On the other hand, the occurrence of side effects and how your dog responds to the corticosteroid also influence the duration. Ensure to complete the entire course of the medication until directed otherwise by your vet.
You should continue offering Prednisolone even if your dog is showing signs of recovery. If you stop administering the drug midway, there could be a relapse compelling you to start therapy all over again.
Short-term and Long-Term Side Effects of Prednisone in Dogs
Some possible side-effects comprise:-
Diarrhea
Vomiting
Restlessness
Gasping
Increased urination, thirst, and hunger
Some side effects though rare could be serious enough to warrant immediate medical intervention such as:-
Hypertension
Gaining weight abruptly
Hypersensitivity to drugs manifested by hives, inflammation of the face, tongue or lips
If you continue offering the medication for an extended period, you could see the dog going bald. Other long-term effects include lethargy, aggressiveness, peptic ulcer, loss of muscle mass and liver or kidney disease. The immunosuppressive properties of the corticosteroid make you vulnerable to infections.
Prednisolone Contraindications
While discussing with your vet the pros and cons of offering prednisone, make sure you talk about your pet’s medical history. Also, let him or her know about any medications your dog is currently taking for a health condition. Your vet may not prescribe Prednisolone if your pet is taking Novocox, Metacam, Rimadyl or NSAIDs.
Do not offer the medication if your dog is pregnant or nursing or is suffering from diabetes.
Disclaimer: The above content is based on multiple research articles referred to online. Global Dog Breeds intends to share information, but it's strictly advised to consult a veterinarian and seek advice before using any medications described. We believe each condition and dog is unique, and only after careful evaluation from a qualified professional should you be offering any medications to your pet.
Using just 3 Quick Questions, a Voice Analysis is a cutting-edge assessment tool that quickly and easily determines frequency imbalances and weaknesses that need attention. A simple 5 minute “voice print” sorts the frequencies associated with all of your organs systems, and emotions determining an overall picture of your health.
Not only are results immediate and accurate, the session will give you a clear-cut plan, charting a definitive course for improved well-being. Non-invasive, safe for all ages, and cost-effective, a Voice Analysis gets at the heart of your symptoms in many cases uncovering problems before serious illness sets in. We are pleased to be able to offer this new service and technology as yet another way to improve your quality of life.
Sign up here and Pay online today to receive 20% off of your first Voice Print and Analysis: (Use coupon code: healingpower at check out) http://vocalvoyaging.com/product/30-minute-voice-analysis/ or http://vocalvoyaging.com/product/voice-bio-60-minute-voice-analysis/
In patients with high blood pressure your medicine works by relaxing blood vessels, so that blood passes through them more easily. In patients with angina. Adizem XL works by improving blood supply to the heart muscle which then receives more oxygen and as a result chest pain is prevented and relieved. Your medicine does not provide immediate relief of chest pain from angina.
It is best to take your medicine at the same time each day with a drink of water. It can be taken before or after food. Do not crush or chew them.
The usual dose of Adizem XL is one 240mg every day for adults, and one 120mg capsule a day for the elderly. Your doctor may prescribe a different dose to this.
Adizem XL-SR should not be taken at the same time as alcohol, as it may increase the release of diltiazem from the prolonged release preparation. In addition the combination of alcohol and diltiazem may have an additive vasodilatory effect.
Crazy Nike Shoes For Sale is free HD wallpaper. This wallpaper was upload at November 21, 2018 upload by admin in .You can download it in your computer by clicking resolution image in Download by size:. Don't forget to rate and comment if you interest with this wallpaper.
