Displaying items by tag: neurofeedback at home
Wednesday, 17 November 2021 15:30
You might search for 'neurofeedback therapy near me,' but did you know you can do neurofeedback at home? It's true! There are several great reasons why you might want to try remote neurofeedback from the comfort of your own couch. If you're in the dark about this at-home therapy, then we can help. We've compiled a list of 5 top scenarios when you should try neurofeedback therapy at home to get the brain training expertise that you need.
When You Should Try Neurofeedback at Home
1. You're staying isolated because of the pandemic.
While the pandemic has improved, it is still ongoing and you may not feel comfortable leaving your home just yet. Or maybe you're working from home by choice or by office mandate. According to the Future Workforce Report of 2021, 40.7 million American professionals will be fully remote by 2025. So, if you're still stuck at home for the time being, that doesn't mean you need to let your mental health suffer. Remote neurofeedback is the perfect mental health treatment for the remote worker.
2. You like the comfort of home.
Are you the type of person that finds their home the most comfortable place to be? Then you may not want to get in your car, drive to the nearest brain health center, and participate in neurofeedback sessions in-person with a specialist. We get it: who doesn't want to lounge on their favorite couch in cozy pajamas? If being comfortable at home is your cup of tea, then remote neurofeedback therapy is an excellent option to improve your brain function.
3. You like your privacy.
If you're an introvert, there's nothing wrong with that. It may just mean that you like a little more privacy than others. Even if you're not introverted, you may just prefer guided brain training sessions in a quiet, private room in your home. While the nature of neurofeedback therapy is non-invasive, it may not be the private experience you're looking for if you're around others in a waiting room beforehand. That's why neurofeedback training sessions at home may be best for you.
4. You're busy!
If you have a demanding job and are managing the needs of your family, then trying to make in-person appointments within the confines of center hours may be nearly impossible. Neurofeedback brain training at home permits you to address mental health disorders or improve brain functioning within flexible hours that work best for you. It's a lot easier to carve out time for sessions at home in between your busy appointments and making dinner than it would be having to come in for an in-person session.
5. You want to complement your in-person sessions.
If you're getting great results from your in-person neurofeedback session, then you may not want to forego working with neurofeedback specialists at a location near you. And, that's great! In this instance, you may just want to have an option that complements your in-person sessions or helps you fill in the gap if you're busy or traveling. As long as you have your neurofeedback devices like your smartphone and EEG headset, you can have access to supplemental neurofeedback at home.
Neurofeedback is the process of using a computer to guide your brain into learning how to control certain brainwaves and functions more effectively. It's also called EEG biofeedback, which is short for electroencephalogram biofeedback.
And improve other skills that are impaired by neurological disorders or injuries.
Some of the conditions that can improve with neurofeedback at home include:
With modern technology, neurofeedback therapy at home is easy and effective.
Are you ready to try neurofeedback therapy at home?
There are many uses for neurofeedback: improving concentration, reducing stress levels, improving memory, reducing headaches, managing depression and anxiety, and more. If you're looking for a drug-free way to conveniently manage your mental health and brain conditions, then neurofeedback at home may be the right method for you!
If you're interested in this remote treatment program, schedule a consultation with Braincode Centers in Denver or Dallas today!
Neurofeedback has been used for many years in treating various disorders and conditions including anxiety, depression, ADHD, autism spectrum disorder, chronic pain, insomnia, epilepsy, migraines, substance abuse, and more. This innovative therapy is also being studied for its potential use with PTSD. If you're struggling to manage your mental health after experiencing a traumatic event, it's worth considering neurofeedback for PTSD.
Friday, 25 June 2021 16:58
Many mental health disorders, brain injuries, and behavioral challenges are rooted in dysregulated brain activity. Neurofeedback is a powerful, yet simple therapy that trains the brain to better self-regulate and treat the problem at its source. However, not everyone has time to drive across town once (or twice) a week for neurofeedback training sessions. Thankfully, remote neurofeedback is an option. And it's just as effective as in-person training. Here's how you can achieve better brain health with at-home neurofeedback devices.
Monday, 10 May 2021 11:07
Dealing with depression is difficult. It can drain your energy and make simple things such as getting out of bed or going to work a daily challenge. Although SSRIs can be extremely beneficial in managing your symptoms, sometimes they don't provide you with the relief you really need. Thankfully, there are other treatment options to consider. If you're on the search for alternatives to SSRIs for depression, you've come to the right place.
If you're suffering from a mental health disorder or brain-based condition, you may have heard about neurofeedback. Neurofeedback is an all-natural, drug-free way to alter the state of your brain for the better and address any imbalances or dysfunction that may be occurring. Still, as effective as this therapy is, many people find it difficult to commit to the regularly scheduled appointments that are necessary to successfully retrain your brain. Whether you're being held back by work, a long drive, or a busy schedule, we understand that making it to a clinic every week can be challenging. That's why we're here today to talk to you about neurofeedback at home.
Wednesday, 13 January 2021 10:32
Neurofeedback for TBI Patients: What You Need to Know
Our brains are responsible for how we think, how we feel, the ways in which we move, and even how we act. Experiencing a traumatic brain injury can be devastating, not only for the person who suffered the injury but also for their family and friends. The effects of brain damage can wreak havoc on all aspects of daily life. Between constant headaches, a decline in cognitive function, mood swings, and blurred vision, there are countless obstacles caused by a TBI that must be faced every day. For most, recovery from a TBI is a long and challenging process. If you're interested in learning more about neurofeedback for TBI patients, we are here to help.
Published in Concussion and TBI
Going to appointments isn't always easy. You often have to take some time off from work, rearrange your schedule, or add on to an already long day. And let's not forget about all the time it takes to drive to and from your appointments. If you've been struggling with your mental health or overall mental performance and you've considered neurofeedback treatment but can't commit to the regular appointments, consider home neurofeedback instead.
As a healthcare consumer, you're often given a multitude of choices when it comes to your mode of treatment. From a long list of medications to the many alternative treatments, it can be difficult to sift through all of your available options. If you suffer from anxiety, depression, insomnia, or pain and traditional treatment options aren't alleviating your symptoms, you may want to consider Alpha-Stim AID.
Gum disease has already been shown to have a connection with heart disease, strokes, respiratory infections, and other potentially serious medical conditions. Nowadays, though, there’s a fresh new health concern that could potentially be made worse by a gum infection: COVID-19. As the COVID pandemic continues, more and more research is being performed regarding the risk factors of the disease, and recent findings have shown that patients with gum disease could potentially be in severe danger. Read on to learn more about what studies are suggesting about the link between COVID and gum disease – and why maintaining a healthy smile might be especially crucial now more than ever.
What Do Recent Studies Say About COVID and Gum Disease?
In Qatar, a team of doctors performed a case-control study using national electronic health records of the state. They were specifically examining the relationship between COVID-19 and gum disease since both conditions are associated with inflammation. For the study, 568 patients between February and July 2020 were examined. The study specifically included COVID cases where complications (such as death or admissions to the ICU) occurred. The outcomes for COVID patients with gum disease were compared to those without it.
The results were eye-opening. It was found that COVID patients with advanced gum disease were about 3.5 times more likely to need intensive care, and they were 4.5 times more likely to suffer from symptoms so severe that a ventilator was required. Most concerning of all was the fatality rate; gum disease patients were found to be nearly 9 times as likely to die from COVID compared to those without gum disease.
It’s important to note that study did not address causality. In other words, it is not conclusive that gum disease will directly lead to more severe COVID complications. With that said, these findings strongly indicate a relationship between the two conditions.
How Can You Protect Yourself from Gum Disease?
Keeping your gums healthy will go a long way towards keeping the rest of your body healthy. If you want to minimize your risk factors for COVID and other systemic health issues, you need to start paying closer attention to your oral health. Important steps that can help prevent gum disease include:
Brushing a minimum of two times every day.
Flossing every day to clean the spaces between the teeth.
Continuing to visit the dentist for regular checkups and cleanings.
Giving up or staying away from tobacco products.
Talk to your periodontist in Belmont if you have concerns about the impact gum disease might be having on your overall health. Protecting your mouth could very well mean keeping the rest of your body safe from the absolute worst of COVID.
About the Author
Dr. Alexander R. Schrott has been board-certified by both the American and German Boards of Periodontology. He is also an active member of the American Academy of Periodontology. He offers a variety of treatments for mild to severe gum disease so that you can protect your mouth as well as the rest of your body. To schedule a consultation at his Belmont practice, visit his website or call (617) 484-9240.
Copyright, Dr. Alexander Schrott, DMD, MMSc, Alexander Schrott Periodontics & Implants
93 Concord Ave, Belmont, Massachusetts, 02478 | T: (617) 484-9240 | F: (617) 484-4008 | contact@schrott-perio-implants.com
Stress Articles - Page 5 — Knoji
Foods That Can Help in Reducing Stress
A balanced diet can go a long way in managing stress and thus maintaining a good health. Here are some healthy foods that experts have identified to help you combat or reduce stress. These healthy foods will not only help you reduce stress but it will definitely make you healthier.
Published by Teddy Sy 77 months ago in Stress | +5 votes | 0 comments
Five Common Foods That Help You Fight Depression
Depression and stress are all related to your mind and therefore it is vital that your treat your brain with healthy stuff, especially while considering food to stay healthy. There are many ways to cope up with the state of depression, eating necessary and healthy food being one of them. Here is a list of five common foods that help you fight depression easily.
Published by BuzzingWinds 77 months ago in Stress | +3 votes | 0 comments
Published by BuzzingWinds 242 months ago in Stress | +0 votes | 0 comments
Research have shown that crying can improve your relationship, your health, and even your career. If you've ever found yourself laughing so hard or snickering over sad news, you have experienced firsthand the close relationship between tears and laughter. So go ahead, sobs, wail, whimper and whine- it is good to your health and according to a research, crying remove chemicals build up in your body that cause stress.
Published by Jessie Agudo 78 months ago in Stress | +9 votes | 1 comments
Living in today's fast paced world makes developing your own stress management skills important to both your mental and physical health. This article will provide you with information about simple stress management methods that will prove to be very helpful and practical for just about anyone. Un-managed stress can become quite debilitating. Doing nothing about it can literally kill you.
Published by Jamie Myles 80 months ago in Stress | +6 votes | 1 comments
What Do Recent Research on Obstructive Sleep Apnea - OSA and Depression Reveal?
Recent studies show that there is an interrelation between obstructive sleep apnea- OSA and depression. According to researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, they have associated obstructive sleep apnea with major depressive disorders. The researchers surveyed close to 9,714 Americans mainly adults. A lead author of the study, Anne G. Wheaton noted that snorting and gasping as well as pauses in breathing while one is asleep was linked to nearly most of the depression sympto...
Published by Tainers Kiamba 80 months ago in Stress | +0 votes | 0 comments
Chronic Anxiety Syndrome - Seek Help Now
According to Psychologists, roughly one in four adults suffer from some form of chronic anxiety at some point of time in their life .However, studies show that only one in four of those sufferers take steps to get help .There are effective treatments for most people...Panic disorder, Traumatic stress disorder,compulsive disorder -you could be suffering from any of these or other psychological disorders and not even know about it !
Published by Kiran 80 months ago in Stress | +4 votes | 1 comments
Different Types of Stress Relief
Finding a type of stress relief that suits you personally can be a great aid to your emotional and physical wellbeing. Stress has the power to lower your immune system, and can cause sleepless nights and depression. By using a method of relief you find works for you, you can improve your health and feel better.
Published by B W1 81 months ago in Stress | +7 votes | 2 comments
Teenage Depression: What Teenagers Can Do to Feel Better
Depression is definitely the state that you don't want to experience, but sadly a large number of teenagers today fall for it. There are a lot of factors that can lead to depression; it can be peer pressure, projects in school, family problems and a lot more. Though there is really nothing that you can do with these factors, there are still some ways for you to feel better. Your family and friends can surely help you a lot with avoiding teenage depression.
Published by captain aizen 81 months ago in Stress | +3 votes | 3 comments
Best Massage Therapist in Omaha, Nebraska
One of the best massage therapists in Omaha,Nebraska is Mary Ann Schmiedling who owns Magic Hands Massage.Specialising in Swedish Massage and Deep Tissue Massage she also offers an ionic detox footbath.A graduate of Midwest School of Massage and a former teacher and Pastoral Minister she believes in uniting the body,mind and spirit.
Published by Amanda Wilkins 81 months ago in Stress | +1 votes | 0 comments
How to Manage Your Health While at Work
Many people suffer from work-related stress. Because of lack of knowledge about how to handle tough situations at work, it is easy for one to care less about one's health. Here are a few tips to avoid stress at work. It could be that you cannot easily adhere to all the points listed here but taking them one by one will definitely help to improve your health.
Published by Jude Chukwuemeka 81 months ago in Stress | +1 votes | 0 comments
Five Things That Can Keep You Free from Stress
"Stress" is the fundamental thing that makes every one diseased. In modern times, it has been described as the silent killer in the body of every human being. Although, several experts have suggested, "exercises" and "dietary control" are the ways to fight stress and live life, five common things are given in the article, which can considerably help in reducing stress. A stress free life can ensure longevity and joyful living.
Published by srikanta Mohanty 81 months ago in Stress | +0 votes | 0 comments
5 Simple Yet Effective Ways to Fight Stress
Learn the 5 Simple yet Effective Ways to Fight Stress. There are many situations and people around us daily that can cause us stress problems. A simple word from other people can lead us to great stress and if not treated, could bring us under more sever health problems. This article provides information about the positive remedies to prevent stress from affecting our body and life.
Published by Mark Cruz 82 months ago in Stress | +6 votes | 1 comments
How to Relieve Stress: Stress Diet & Foods That Help Relieve Stress
It is important to control stress before itÂ's too late. Chronic stress can be very harmful for the health. There are many ways of stress management. Certain foods can also play important roles in reducing stress. These foods help to raise the serotonin levels and reduce the negative effects of cortisol and adrenaline. LetÂ's find out what are the foods that help relieve stress.
Keeping healthy habits - Healthy-Heart.org
What can I do to maintain a low cardiovascular risk?
Healthy habits protect your heart but maintaining them throughout life can be a challenge. Read on for suggestions on how to monitor your cardiovascular risk and keep it low.
Cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death all over the world, including Europe. Cardiovascular-related deaths have declined in some countries due to preventive measures such as smoking bans.
Healthy behaviours will protect your heart and keep it strong throughout your life. It's unrealistic to expect yourself to make radical lifestyle changes immediately. To create long-lasting habits, start gradually with an easy win and stick with it. Small adjustments can bring significant benefits.
What and how much you eat has a big effect on heart health and is one of the best places to start. When eating out, choose healthy options.
Allow yourself one less healthy meal a week so you stay motivated and don't feel like you're on a diet.
Activity reduces risk in many ways. It helps control body weight, blood pressure, blood lipids and sugar, and makes you happier. You don't have to get super fit. Even a small increase in exercise improves health. If you can build it up, even better! If you feel lazy, ask a friend to join you for a long walk. Try to maintain a good level of exercise.
Drink responsibly, in moderation. Alcoholic beverages should be limited to 2 glasses per day (20 g/day of alcohol) for men and 1 glass per day (10 g/day of alcohol) for women. If you don't drink, don't start.
Never smoke and try to stay away from smoking areas: passive smoking can be dangerous for you and your family. Smoking cessation is the most effective way to reduce the risk of heart and lung disease.
Check your body weight regularly. Achieving and maintaining a healthy weight has a favourable effect on blood pressure, blood cholesterol and diabetes, and lowers your cardiovascular risk.
Both overweight and obesity are linked with a greater likelihood of premature death. Risk is lowest with a body mass index (BMI) of 20 to 25 kg/m2 (in people under 60 years of age). Further weight reduction does not protect against cardiovascular disease.
Healthy weight in people over 60 is higher than in the young and middle-aged.
Waist circumference should be less than 94 cm in men and less than 80 cm in women.
If you are obese, ask a health professional to recommend a weight loss plan that includes diet and physical activity.
Losing weight slowly is the best way to achieve and maintain a healthy weight.
Your Doctor/ health care professional can use cardiovascular risk calculators such as SCORE to evaluate your cardiovascular risk and decide on the appropriate course of action.
Privacy Policy | Thalia Galanopoulou | Photographer
Privacy Policythaliagalanopouloumainadmin2021-06-08T13:15:19+03:00
The website thaliag.com is property of Thalia Galanopoulou.
This website contains certain information about the services, the portfolio and the news of Thalia Galanopoulou.
At thaliag.com, we pay great attention at the protection of the privacy and the personal data of the website's visitors. The website has been created having as a priority the safety and protection of its visitors personal data.
This particular Privacy Policy is fully compatible with EU' s General Data Protection Regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (ΕΕ/2016/679) as well as the Greek Legislation and it aims to inform you on the data that are collected about you during your visit to the website.
1. Authorized controller
The "controller" of the personal data collected during the use of the specific website is Thalia Galanopoulou (hereinafter "We"). At the terms below, you will find important information regarding the type and the use of personal data that are being collected, their protection and your rights as owners of these data.
2. Which data are considered personal?
When you visit thaliag.com you do not have to disclose any personal information to us, nor do we collect any data about you without your permission.
1. Data that you provide to us when you meet us or when you contact us via e-mail, phone, social media etc…
2. The e-mail address that you provide to us by filling out the newsletter form found in our website
3. Analytics Data – Statistics related to the traffic of our website that are collected using third-party cookies, through the Google Analytics service.
The data collected is: the duration of the visit to our sites, the type of browser used, the location from which the visit came, the frequency of visits and the IP address.
On our site, we have enabled the IP Anonymization setting, which means that part of your IP address becomes anonymous, so that only IP address shortcuts are stored and parsed by Google.
4. Purpose, use, time, storage and processing of your personal data
The personal data you provide to us (see Section 3.1 – 3.2), is used only for the needs of communication with you and for your better support / service. We do not disclose, transmit or make your information accessible to third parties.
by Bidita Debnath on June 16, 2013 at 6:07 PM Research News
One study overturns the common belief that RA patients have worse outcomes after a total knee replacement (TKR) than patients who undergo the operation for osteoarthritis. The other study demonstrates that RA patients who undergo a total hip replacement were as likely to have significant improvements in function and pain as patients with osteoarthritis (OA), even though they did not do as well.
In one study, investigators used the HSS Total Joint Replacement registry to identify 178 rheumatoid arthritis patients and 5,206 osteoarthritis patients who underwent a TKR. Patients with RA were sicker-while 72% of osteoarthritis patients had no comorbidities, only 34% of rheumatoid arthritis patients fell into this category.
In a second study, HSS investigators compared outcomes of 202 RA patients and 5,810 OA patients who underwent hip replacement. Again, RA patients were sicker-while 80% of osteoarthritis patients had no comorbidities, only 34% of rheumatoid arthritis patients had the luxury of falling into this category.
"When we looked at function using the WOMAC scale, function was significantly worse in the rheumatoid arthritis patients prior to surgery, but interestingly, when we looked at how they did two years down the road, they were as likely to have an improvement in function and pain," said Dr. Goodman. Almost 100% (RA, 96% and OA, 95%) had a ten point change in score-a ten point change is considered clinically significant. Rheumatoid arthritis patients, however, had worse outcomes. At two years, patients with RA were more likely to have a poor function WOMAC score of 60 or less (18% vs. 4%) and a poor WOMAC pain score of 60 or less (12% vs. 3%). Patients who expected to do well with the surgery had a significantly decreased risk of poor pain and function.
Founded in 1863, Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) is a world leader in orthopedics, rheumatology and rehabilitation. HSS is nationally ranked No. 1 in orthopedics, No. 3 in rheumatology, No. 10 in neurology and No. 5 in geriatrics by U.S. News & World Report (2012-13), and is the first hospital in New York State to receive Magnet Recognition for Excellence in Nursing Service from the American Nurses Credentialing Center three consecutive times. HSS has one of the lowest infection rates in the country. From 2007 to 2011, HSS has been a recipient of the HealthGrades Joint Replacement Excellence Award. HSS is a member of the NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System and an affiliate of Weill Cornell Medical College and as such all Hospital for Special Surgery medical staff are faculty of Weill Cornell. The hospital's research division is internationally recognized as a leader in the investigation of musculoskeletal and autoimmune diseases. Hospital for Special Surgery is located in New York City.
<< Biggest Ever Gay Pride March in Zagreb
One-third of Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients Discontinue Medi... >>
Ankylosing Spondylitis Osteoarthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis Ganglion Cysts - Ganglion Wrist Oligoarthritis Spondylolisthesis Chemotherapy Chemotherapy Drugs Knee Replacement Reactive Arthritis
Order Esomeprazole Nexium 40 Mg Po Available Esomeprazole Nexium 20 Mg Tablet — Online Pay By Visa
Order esomeprazole nexium 40 mg po available esomeprazole nexium 20 mg tablet Year after year our pharmacy expands in order to provide more clients with quality drugs!
Symptoms of an acid reflux attack include: burning, stinging, or raw tongue feeling the burning sensation before and during or after eating feeling the burning sensation when sucking or swallowing excess saliva (more than 2 nexium for sale online nexium samples online 30 minutes) constipation or diarrhea (more than 5 to 6 times in a 24-hour period or two hours after eating) severe stomach pain nausea, vomiting, nexium for sale online, or constipation numbness If you miss a dose of Nexium, take it as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing nexium esomeprazole price. Do not take 2 doses at once. Call your doctor for advice if you have been taking Nexium and a stomach-related condition. You may need to stop the medicine, as Nexium may cause stomach irritation. Check with your doctor if you have frequent heartburn. Tell your doctor if the amount of medicine is increasing or decreasing.
Seek emergency medical attention or call the Poison Help line at 1-800-222-1222. Where to buy nexium in canada medical care right away if you have any of these nexium for babies cost of overdose: very bad drowsiness; muscle pain or weakness; confusion, dizziness, weakness, passing out; or drug cost of nexium in different countries should I avoid while taking Nexium. Avoid drinking alcohol. Avoid taking certain herbal supplements. Talk nexium 24hr otc side effects the pharmacist nexium 24hr otc side effects which herbal supplements you should avoid and which herbal products to use.
Nexium is available only with a doctor's prescription. It can cause side effects in people who are not used to Nexium and sometimes in higher doses. Do not take Nexium if you do not know how this medicine affects you or if you have an allergy to a medicine part. Tell your doctor or dentist if you are pregnant. Do not breast-feed while you take Nexium. Many of the following conditions can affect how Nexium You should not take Nexium if you are allergic to the following drugs: phenytoin (Dilantin, Pradaxa), omeprazole (Prilosec), omeprazole (Prilosec), or lansoprazole (Prevacid).
Nexium sams price Save up to 20% of the price shopping for medications at our online pharmacy today!
Nexium and H2 blockersacid suppressors H2 blockersacid suppressors are often combined with Nexium to reduce stomach acid. These drugs can reduce the pain and urgency of severe acid reflux in patients with GERD or acid reflux disorder. Nexium is not a contraindication for H2 blockersacid suppressors. H2 blockersacid suppressors can cause 40 mg nexium otc following side effects when they are used with Nexium: bloating and light-headedness decreased stomach acid production stomach pain stomach upset and vomiting This list is over the counter nexium 40 mg complete and is subject to change. We are continually updating the interactions and these should be verified through your health care provider, pharmacist, or other health care professional. How Nexium may work in a particular situation|endoftext|Get daily news updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email A young mother who allegedly abused her daughter before murdering her was yesterday nexium samples online guilty of murder. Kasey McAlister, 22, has been convicted of killing four-year-old Hayley, in a crime which shocked the small town of Kells.
Best price nexium Get the utmost of our clearance spring sale! buy most effective medications at a discount!
Your health care professional will ask about treatment with other treatments you are taking. The Nexium 24hr manufacturer cannot provide a list of all the medications and treatments you can use together. For this reason, it is not a complete list of Nexium and its possible side effects.
What does the manufacturer advise me about using Nexium. The manufacturer of Nexium 24hr does not recommend using Nexium 24hr in children younger than 12 nexium over the counter in germany? href="https://fanzoj.com/wp-blogs/purchase-nexium-online.php">purchase nexium online of age or in nexium otc vs prescribed who are best price for nexium or taking medicines to lower their blood sugar levels.
The manufacturer of Nexium 24hr advises that patients with serious heartburn symptoms may have a risk of developing severe liver damage or damage of the heart valves. If you take certain risk medications, you should stop using Nexium 24hr and call your doctor right away.
If you have any new or worsening heartburn symptoms during your Nexium 24hr treatment plan, talk to your health care professional. Nexium 24hr products should be used appropriately to cure or relieve your symptoms. Nexium has the potential for severe stomach acid reaction. An uncoated tablets form can cause an acid stomach that may result in severe stomach acidosis and a very serious, potentially fatal, condition known as gastric ulcerative colitis (GUC).
It also contains aspirin and acetaminophen. What is the most important information I should know about Nexium. Nexium can affect the heart, and should be taken with care.
DescriptionAdrenalectomy can be performed in two ways. In the "open" surgery, the surgeon makes one large surgical cut to remove the gland. With the "laparoscopic" technique, several small incisions are made. The surgeon will discuss which approach is better for you.
For the surgery, you will be placed under general anesthesia (unconscious and pain-free).
The adrenal gland is sent to a pathologist for examination under a microscope.
Sometimes a mass in the adrenal gland is removed because it releases a hormone that can cause harmful side effects. One of the most common tumors is a pheochromocytoma. This tumor can cause very high blood pressure.
RisksWith any operation or anesthesia, there is a slight risk of:
Before You Have the ProcedureYour surgeon will give you instructions about your diet, including when you should stop eating and drinking. Be sure to have a complete list of your medications so that your surgeon and anesthesiologist can give you instructions about them.
ConvalescenceAs with any operation, there will be discomfort after surgery.
Your surgeon will give you instructions about restricting your activities.Complete recovery from the procedure may take several weeks or longer, depending on the type of surgical cuts you have.
ReferencesYoung WF Jr. Adrenal medulla, catecholamines, and pheochromocytoma. In: Goldman L, Ausiello D, eds. Cecil Medicine. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, Pa: Saunders Elsevier; 2007:chap 246.
Jardiance (generic: empagliflozin) belongs to a class of drugs known as sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors that are used to treat type 2 diabetes. The medication works by helping the kidneys excrete sugar (glucose) from the bloodstream.
Who Makes it?
Jardiance is manufactured by the German pharmaceutical company Boehringer Ingelheim. It was approved by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) on August 1, 2014.
What is the Dosage?
The recommended dose of Jardiance is 10 mg once daily in the morning, taken with or without food. In patients tolerating Jardiance, the dose may be increased to 25 mg.
How Much Does it Cost?
Jardiance cost typically starts around $400 for thirty 10 mg tablets. If you are faced with having to pay for Jardiance out of pocket, be sure to look for free coupons online.
Which Side Effects has Jardiance Been Linked to?
Our lawyers are accepting potential lawsuits for people who developed the following side effects from Jardiance:
Diabetic Ketoacidosis (DKA, Diabetic Acidosis, Metabolic Ketoacidosis, Metabolic Acidosis, Ketoacidosis)
Kidney failure
Urosepsis
Pyelonephritis
Other serious side effects of Jardiance may include:
Heart Attack (Myocardial Infarction or MI)
Kidney Stones
Bone Fractures / Bone Abnormalities
Stroke
Testicular Cancer
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)
Severe Dehydration / Fluid Imbalance
Abnormal Weight Loss
Hypersensitivity (Allergic Response)
Blood Infections (Urosepsis)
Fungal Infections
Yeast Infections (both men and women)
And more
What Does the FDA Say About Jardiance?
In May 2015, the FDA issued a Drug Safety Communication indicating that SGLT2 inhibitor diabetes drugs had been linked to diabetic ketoacidosis. Between March 2013 and June 6, 2014, at least 20 cases of ketoacidosis in SGLT2 inhibitor users were reported to the FDA’s Adverse Events Reporting System (FAERS).
How Can Jardiance Affect the Kidneys?
Jardiance affects normal kidney function so that sugars may be passed out the body through the urine, so patients who take the medication may face an increased risk of serious kidney problems.
Has There Been a Recall?
Despite being linked to the above serious side effects, Jardiance has not been recalled, and continues to be prescribed to unsuspecting patients across the U.S. However, Jardiance belongs to a new class of drugs and the investigation into their potential health risks is still in its early stages.
What are Jardiance Lawsuits Alleging?
Jardiance lawsuits allege that Boehringer Ingelheim failed to adequately warn doctors and patients about the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis, kidney damage and other serious side effects associated with the drug. The complaints state that had the manufacturer properly warned of these risks, patients would have been prescribed a different diabetes medication, and would have had their health monitored more closely for signs of health problems.
Have There Been any Settlements?
The first Jardiance lawsuits were only recently filed, and the proceedings are still in their early stages. It will likely be several years before Boehringer considers settling some or all of the cases. However, our lawyers feel that the manufacturer will eventually be required to pay substantial compensation as a result of their decision to place profits ahead of safety when they withheld information about the potential health risks of Jardiance.
Is There a Class Action?
No class action lawsuit has yet been filed in the Jardiance litigation, and it is doubtful that one will be entered on behalf of patients who were injured by the drug. However, if multiple lawsuits are filed alleging similar injuries, these complaints may be consolidated into a multidistrict litigation (MDL) for pretrial handling. MDLs are different from class actions, and it is generally agreed that consolidating cases instead of proceeding in a class action is a more efficient way of handling claims arising from injuries associated with pharmaceutical products.
Ketchum Health is the major patient care and clinical teaching facility of the Southern California College of Optometry and Marshall B. Ketchum University, located a few miles away in the neighboring city of Fullerton.
Currently, Ketchum Health is home to the University Eye Center, a world-class center for eye and vision care, boasting a large suite for the delivery of comprehensive primary eye care, including 16 dedicated exam rooms and specialty imaging technology.
Additionally, the clinic serves as a specialty referral center for low vision patients, vision therapy patients, hard-to-fit cornea and contact lens patients, keratoconus patients, prosthetic lens and eye patients, as well as a full pediatric eye care center. The University Eye Center also offers treatment for dry eye, myopia control clinic, and sports vision evaluations.
Soon, the eye and vision care services offered at Ketchum Health will be further enhanced by a dedicated medical clinic and dispensing pharmacy.
