The authors found low certainty evidence that apipuncture (acupuncture using bee venom) may reduce pain, anticonvulsants may improve sleep, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation has no effect on depressive symptoms or patient-reported global improvement, and TCAs do not improve depressive symptoms but do produce significantly more side effects. The results for anticonvulsants were based on 4 trials, with a total of 307 patients. The results for TCAs were based on one trial with 15 participants, which is the basis for the recommendation by the three pain professional groups. This trial reported that there was a significant decrease in pain intensity with amitriptyline during the fourth and final week of treatment, but the authors of this systematic review analyzed the data and did not find a significant effect. The results for opioid antagonists, TMS, apipuncture, and electroacupuncture were all based on single trials.
The review was done in a very comprehensive manner, including the breadth of sources evaluated, inclusion of pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic therapies, and the systematic approach for assessing eligibility of studies. They also evaluated many patient-important outcomes (not just improvement of pain), and graded the level of certainty in the evidence using the GRADE approach in which randomized controlled trials begin as “high certainty” and drop down due to risk of bias, inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision, and publication bias.
Eight English-language studies were ultimately included, after an initial review of 5,015 initial entries including 324 full text articles. Studies were eligible if they enrolled at least 10 patients with CPSP, randomly assigned them to a treatment or control arm, and collected outcome data at least 14 days post treatment. If a study enrolled a mixed clinical population, they were included if the results of the CPSP patients were reported separately or at least 80% of the sample were CPSP patients. Risk of bias was assessed for each study based on presence of random sequence generation, allocation concealment, blinding of participants and study personnel, and incomplete outcome data.
To me, the take-home message is really the (poor) level of evidence, rather than the negative results. If very low level evidence suggests a treatment is ineffective, it may just need to be studied in a more thorough and bias-free manner. The authors recommend large, multi-center, randomized trials using standard instruments with established outcome measures, longer observation periods, and reduction of bias. Ideally, these types of studies would be carried out on existing therapies to assess their true utility in the treatment of CPSP while we continue to develop new treatment strategies.

Reward probability and magnitude in saccadic decisions under risk: measuring bias and sensitivity to expected value | JOV | ARVO Journals
Objective: Our goal was to evaluate how healthy subjects integrate information of reward magnitude and the likelihood of reward, to determine their threshold sensitivity to differences in value and their choice biases. Background: There are few clinical tests of decisions under risk. The most well-known, the Iowa Gambling task, assesses the ability to learn cumulative probabilities of gain or loss and to forego large rewards for smaller ones. However, tests that characterize sensitivity to expected value and biases between reward magnitude versus probability may provide insights in conditions with anomalous reward-related behaviour. Design/Methods: Twenty subjects were required in 170 trials to choose between two explicitly described prospects, one having higher probability of reward but lower magnitude of reward than the other. The sizes of reward and the degree of probability were varied so that the difference in expected value between the two prospects varied from 3% to 23%. We first plotted choice as a function of expected value. Second, we used Prospect Theory to evaluate choice as a function of perceived value, using an exponential function for perceived reward utility and a single-parameter Prelec function for perceived probability. Results: Subjects showed a threshold sensitivity of 9.0% difference in expected value. Regarding choice bias, we found a ‘risk premium’ of 9.4%, indicating a slight tendency to choose higher probability over higher reward. Prospect Theory analysis showed that this risk premium is the predicted outcome of non-linearities in the subjective perception of reward value and probability. Conclusions: This simple test provides a robust measure of discriminative value thresholds and biases in decisions under risk. Prospect Theory makes predictions about choice patterns when perception of reward or probability is anomalous, as may occur in populations with dopaminergic or striatal dysfunction, such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia.
Anxiety - Family Care
7 SIMPLE WAYS TO RELIEVE ANXIETY
Do you worry excessively? Do you feel agitated? Experiencing restlessness? Having trouble concentrating? You may be experiencing symptoms of Anxiety. Here are 7 simple ways of relieving anxiety.
Stress hormones:Exercise lowers your body's stress hormones in the long run, such as cortisol. It also helps release endorphins, which are chemicals that improve your mood and act as natural painkillers.
Sleep:Exercise can also improve your sleep quality, which can be negatively affected by stress and anxiety.
Confidence:When you exercise regularly, you may feel more competent and confident in your body, which in turn promotes mental well-being.
Aromatherapy Using essential oils or burning a scented candle may help reduce your feelings of stress and anxiety. Some scents are especially soothing. Here are some of the most calming scents:
Reduce your caffeine intake Caffeine is a stimulant found in coffee, tea, chocolate and energy drinks. High doses can increase anxiety (10). People have different thresholds for how much caffeine they can tolerate. If you notice that caffeine makes you jittery or anxious, consider cutting back. Although many studies show that coffee can be healthy in moderation, it's not for everyone. In general, five or fewer cups per day is considered a moderate amount.
Journaling One way to handle stress is to write things down. While writing down what you're stressed about is one approach, another is writing down what you're grateful for. Gratitude may help relieve stress and anxiety by focusing your thoughts on what's positive in your life.
Practice Mindfulness Mindfulness describes practices that anchor you to the present moment. It can help combat the anxiety-inducing effects of negative thinking. There are several methods for increasing mindfulness, including mindfulness-based cognitive therapy, mindfulness-based stress reduction, yoga and meditation. A recent study in college students suggested that mindfulness may help increase self-esteem, which in turn lessens symptoms of anxiety and depression.
Listening to soothing music Listening to music can have a very relaxing effect on the body. Slow-paced instrumental music can induce the relaxation response by helping lower blood pressure and heart rate, as well as stress hormones. Some types of classical, Celtic, Native American and Indian music can be particularly soothing, but simply listening to the music you enjoy is effective too (22). Nature sounds can also be very calming. This is why they're often incorporated into relaxation and meditation music.
Deep Breathing Mental stress activates your sympathetic nervous system, signaling your body to go into "fight-or-flight" mode. During this reaction, stress hormones are released and you experience the physical symptoms of stress — your heart beats faster, you breathe quicker and your blood vessels constrict. Deep breathing exercises can help activate your parasympathetic nervous system, which controls the relaxation response. There are several types of deep breathing exercises, including diaphragmatic breathing, abdominal breathing, belly breathing and paced respiration. The goal of deep breathing is to focus your awareness on your breath, making it slower and deeper. When you breathe in deeply through your nose, your lungs fully expand and your belly rises. This helps your heart rate slow down, allowing you to feel more peaceful.
If you are dealing with anxiety, you are not alone. If you need to reach out and talk to someone, give us a call at 504-363-7449 to enroll in our therapy program. It's okay to seek help. For more ways, check out: https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/16-ways-relieve-stress-anxiety#section2
Diabetic Retinopathy: Focus on Minority Populations How Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury was averted during Knee Collapse in a NBA Point Guard Hepatitis B Vaccination Rate in Patients with Diabetes: Assessment of Racial and Socioeconomic Disparity Neural Response During a Mechanically Assisted Spinal Manipulation in an Animal Model: A Pilot Study Intranuclear inclusions in conventional clear cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC): A case report and review of the literature Validity of Ratings of Perceived Exertion in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Ethnic Differences in Abstinence Self-Efficacy among Recovering Individuals Buprenorphine Maintenance for Opioid Dependence in Public Sector Healthcare: Benefits and Barriers Significance of Cancer Stem Cells in Anti-Cancer Therapies Endothelial Progenitor Cells in Breast Cancer
ParaguaySouth AfricaYugoslaviaSerbiaBelarusQatarSenegalJordanZimbabweSwazilandArgentinaBurkina FasoVenezuelaIndiaLebanonAustriaUzbekistanMonacoChinaColombiaSwitzerlandMexicoCote d'IvoireEthiopiaGhanaSudanPanamaPeruAlgeriaMongolia
April 06, 2021Diabesity Increases Inflammation and Oxidative Stress
October 01, 2016The Familial Adenomatous Polyposis. A Difficult Problem, Between Prevention and Treatment
Zerit | healthdirect
Zerit is a medicine containing the active ingredient(s) stavudine. On this page you will find out more about Zerit, including side effects, age restrictions, food interactions and whether the medicine is subsidised by the government on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS)
Active ingredient in this medicine: stavudine
Zerit 40 mg hard capsule, 60 Zerit 30 mg hard capsule, 60 Zerit 20 mg hard capsule, 60 Zerit 1 mg/mL powder for oral liquid, 200 mL
Zerit 40 mg hard capsule, 60
For the treatment of HIV infection in adults and adolescents aged 12 years of age and older. EXTENSION OF INDICATIONS: Zerit (stavudine) is indicated for the treatment of HIV infection in adults and paediatric patients.
Size 1, hard gelatin capsule with opaque red cap and body; printed in black 'BMS' over '1967' on one end of the capsule and '40' on the other.
60 capsules: Prescription Only Medicine, or Prescription Animal Remedy
Videx EC Capsules - myDr.com.au
Videx EC Capsules - Consumer Medicines Information leaflets of prescription and over-the-counter medicines
Hydrea Capsules - Consumer Medicines Information leaflets of prescription and over-the-counter medicines
"Concentrations of acetyl–coenzyme A and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) affect histone acetylation and thereby couple cellular metabolic status and transcriptional regulation. We report that the ketone body d-β-hydroxybutyrate (βOHB) is an endogenous and specific inhibitor of class I histone deacetylases (HDACs). Administration of exogenous βOHB, or fasting or calorie restriction, two conditions associated with increased βOHB abundance, all increased global histone acetylation in mouse tissues. Inhibition of HDAC by βOHB was correlated with global changes in transcription, including that of the genes encoding oxidative stress resistance factors FOXO3A and MT2. Treatment of cells with βOHB increased histone acetylation at the Foxo3a and Mt2 promoters, and both genes were activated by selective depletion of HDAC1 and HDAC2. Consistent with increased FOXO3A and MT2 activity, treatment of mice with βOHB conferred substantial protection against oxidative stress."
"The most widely studied function of butyrate is its ability to inhibit histone deacetylases. However, cell surface receptors have been identified for butyrate; these receptors, GPR43 and GPR109A (also known as hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 2 or HCA2), are G protein coupled and are expressed in colonic epithelium, adipose tissue, and immune cells (Blad et al., 2012, Ganapathy et al., 2013). GPR43-deficient mice undergo severe colonic inflammation and colitis in DSS-induced colitis model and the GPR43 agonist acetate protects germ-free mice from DSS-induced colitis (Maslowski et al., 2009). Although GPR43 is activated by all three SCFAs, GPR109A (encoded by Niacr1) is activated only by butyrate (Blad et al., 2012, Taggart et al., 2005). GPR109A is also activated by niacin (vitamin B3) (Blad et al., 2012, Ganapathy et al., 2013). In colonic lumen, butyrate is generated at high concentrations (10–20 mM) by gut microbiota and serves as an endogenous agonist for GPR109A (Thangaraju et al., 2009). We have shown that Gpr109a expression in colon is induced by gut microbiota and is downregulated in colon cancer (Cresci et al., 2010, Thangaraju et al., 2009). Gpr109a in immune cells plays a nonredundant function in niacin-mediated suppression of inflammation and atherosclerosis (Lukasova et al., 2011). Gut microbiota also produce niacin. Niacin deficiency in humans results in pellagra, characterized by intestinal inflammation, diarrhea, dermatitis, and dementia (Hegyi et al., 2004). It is of great clinical relevance that lower abundance of GPR109A ligands niacin and butyrate in gut is associated with colonic inflammation."
"We then examined the relevance of niacin, a pharmacologic agonist for GPR109A, to colonic inflammation. For this, we first depleted gut microbiota with antibiotics, which reduces the production of butyrate, the endogenous agonist for GPR109A. Antibiotic treatment resulted in >300-fold reduction in aerobic and anaerobic bacterial counts in the stool (data not shown). Antibiotic treatment increased DSS-induced weight loss, diarrhea, and bleeding in WT mice (Figures 7B and S6A). Consistent with increased inflammation, we found that antibiotic treatment increased the number of polyps (8.2 ± 2.2 polyps/mouse with antibiotics; 1.6 ± 1.5 polyps/mouse without antibiotics) in WT mice (Figures 7C and 7D). We then tested whether administration of niacin protects antibiotic-treated mice against colonic inflammation and carcinogenesis. Niacin was added to drinking water along with antibiotic cocktail. Niacin ameliorated AOM+DSS-induced weight loss, diarrhea, and bleeding and reduced colon cancer development in antibiotic-treated WT mice (Figures 7B–7D and S6A). Consistent with a role of niacin in IL-18 induction, the protective effect of niacin in DSS-induced weight loss and diarrhea in antibiotic-treated Il18−/− mice was significantly blunted (Figure S6B). Niacin did not alter the development of weight loss, diarrhea, rectal bleeding, and colon cancer in antibiotic-treated Niacr1−/− mice, suggesting an essential role of Gpr109a in niacin-mediated promotion of colonic health (Figures 7B–7D and S6A). Antibiotic treatment reduced colonic inflammation and number of polyps in Niacr1−/− mice. This may be due to the presence of altered colitogenic gut microbiota in Niacr1−/− animals. "
Cannot Cuddle This Baby?
by Savitha C Muppala on October 9, 2012 at 11:25 AM
A rare skin condition has denied 18-month-old Anthony Brine, the basic human touch which we all crave for, a hug and a cuddle, as the child could break into painful blisters and bleeding if he is held.
This means his parents cannot hug him at all. He has been diagnosed with Epidermolysis Bullosa, a genetic blistering condition and his condition is quite severe for which there is no cure yet.
Jackson's Eldest Son Inherits Father's Rare Skin Condition
Late Michael Jackson's son Prince has been diagnosed with his father's rare skin condition, the singer's sister La Toya has revealed.
Daniela, Anthony's mother said, "It's heartbreaking I can't give my beautiful boy a cuddle. Shane won't be able to play with him the way a normal big brother would. If Anthony knocks himself the skin peels away from the area and blisters form and just gets bigger and bigger until they are popped."
Anthony gets painful blisters in his throat and eyes. Doctors have also warned that the boy runs a big risk of developing skin cancer in later life.
<< Gloves That Let You Talk
Easier Test for Blindness Devised >>
Blood Donation - Recipients	Nutam (400mg) (Piracetam)	Noscaphene (Noscapine)	Loram (2 mg) (Lorazepam)	Diaphragmatic Hernia	Iron Intake Calculator	Find a Doctor	How to Reduce School Bag Weight - Simple Tips	Pregnancy Confirmation Calculator	Vent Forte (Theophylline)
Vascular disease is complex and requires a wide range of expertise for effective treatment. At the Vascular Center of Northern Michigan, we start with a rigorous program of screening and integrated care for high-risk candidates. Early detection can reduce the risk of serious complications, thus we put enormous emphasis on diagnosis, using the most advanced non-invasive technologies including ultrasound, CT Scans, MRI and MRA. Our non-invasive diagnostic laboratory puts us at the forefront of vascular care.
Most Americans are familiar with heart disease and with the consequences of blockages in the vessels that carry blood to and from the heart. But few people realize that blockages caused by a buildup of plaque and cholesterol affect more than coronary arteries. Arteries and veins carry oxygen-rich blood to vital organs, the brain, and legs. Blockages cause serious illness.
Rehabilitation Services in Rohini, Delhi
Why Full Mouth Rehabilitation required?
People who have severely worn down teeth as a result of long-term acid erosion (foods, beverages, acid reflux) or tooth grinding(clenching), who may/may not have complain of ringing sound in ears, headache, jaw ache, and muscle ache and people who have multiple missing or decayed teeth are candidates which usually need Full Mouth Rehabilitation.
Dr. Tarun's Dental meets some patients present with total wear and tear of all teeth but still have all or most of the teeth in the oral cavity. In that case A FULL MOUTH RECONSTRUCTION / REHABILITATION is required which restores the oral function back to normal. In shati dentals Patient's primary and secondary problems, their expectation, their existing medical and oral condition and time are taken into consideration. We provide world class facility to patients and give them a comfort with the ease of treatment. Full mouth rehabilitation could be a big change to you and Dr. Tarun's Dental takes care of each and every step of it for you.
Full mouth reconstruction, rehabilitation and restoration are terms often used interchangeably to describe the process of rebuilding or simultaneously restoring the crooked teeth.
Dr. Tarun's Dental offers a procedure which typically involves general or restorative dentists (performing procedures like crowns, bridges and veneers), and can incorporate dental specialists like periodontists (specializing in the gums), oral surgeons, orthodontists (specializing in tooth movements and positions), endodontists and many other processes.
What Full Mouth Rehabilitation can do?
Full mouth rehabilitation is a highly individualized treatment. Dr. Tarun's Dental checks each and every patient differently because the treatment may differ from patient to patient. We take care of accuracy and better transformations. The point of a full mouth reconstruction plan is to optimize the health of the entire mouth, including the teeth, the gums, and the bite. In many cases, it is necessary to replace or restore every tooth in the mouth using a combination of dental services. It is done both for cosmetic(smile correction) and medical purposes i.e. when the oral health of the patient is deteriorated as a whole due to multiple dental problems.
Mar 18, 2020·Until the mid-1800s, doctors didn’t bother washing their hands – they would go from dissecting a cadaver to delivering a child. Then a Hungarian medic made an …
Mar 06, 2020·The Science Behind Hand-Washing The most important step to curbing infection may be hand-washing, especially before eating food, after using the …
Both have indicated that hand hygiene is the most efficient and cost-effective way to control disease propagation. While both organizations say that other measures can also play a useful role in limiting disease spread, such as use of surgical face masks, airport closures, and travel restrictions, hand hygiene is still the first line of defense ...
Good hand washing is the first line of defense against the spread of many illnesses — from the common cold to more serious infections, such as meningitis, bronchiolitis, the …
Mar 16, 2020·Hand washing is always best for removing germs such as bacteria and viruses. But if soap and water is not available, the NHS recommends an …
Mar 13, 2020·As a foundation of everyday hygiene, hand-washing was broadly adopted relatively recently. In the 1840s Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis, a Hungarian physician, discovered that if doctors washed their hands ...
Mar 12, 2020·"While hand-washing isn't foolproof, it significantly mitigates the risk of the transmission and spread of contagious viruses that we may come into contact (with) on …
The report, from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), examined Americans' hand washing behaviors before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.The authors analyzed the results of two ...
Abstract. This article explores factors that may influence hand washing behaviour among pupils and staff in primary schools. A qualitative process evaluation within a cluster randomized controlled trial included pupil focus groups (n = 16, aged 6–11 years), semi-structured interviews (n = 16 teachers) and observations of hand washing facilities (n = 57).
Apr 17, 2020·A big clue to the importance of psychology in hand washing lies in the extraordinary range of hand hygiene practices in different cultures around the world. For …
Home » Optimal Aging » What you need to know about the new stroke guidelines
September 3, 2018 Providence Health Team
New stroke guidelines give physicians more time to treat strokes that meet certain criteria.
Blood clots blocking big blood vessels can be removed up to 24 hours after a stroke.
Know the symptoms and call 911 if you see any of them.
When you have a stroke, time is of the essence in getting to the hospital. But once you are there, you may have much more time to actually be treated, according to new stroke guidelines issued by the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association.
"The dramatic change from previous guidelines is that the time window in which we can treat stroke patients has been extended from six hours to 24 hours," says Ted Lowenkopf, MD, medical director of the Providence Joint Commission Comprehensive Stroke Center, Oregon region. "That means that patients who previously had disabling strokes can now be treated up to 24 hours after the stroke occurs, assuming they meet certain criteria. The take-home message for patients is still the same: If you recognize symptoms of stroke, call 911. What hasn't changed is that early treatment is your best guarantee to have the potential to reverse the disabling symptoms of stroke."
Are you at risk for stroke? Take a quick quiz and assess your stroke risk.
How the guidelines were developed
Most strokes are caused when a blood clot enters the brain and blocks a blood vessel. A clot-dissolving medication called alteplase can be given in the first three to four and one-half hours after a stroke occurs. Alternatively, the clot could be removed via a wire that is snaked from an artery in the groin up to the brain, where a device called a stent retriever is deployed. It expands for five minutes and then the clot is pulled out. This procedure was traditionally done only within the first six hours after a stroke.
The change in the guidelines, which were put into place in January 2018, is based on two studies, the DAWN study and the DEFUSE 3 study. "What these studies did, which was a radical innovation, was to say that time is one of the critical features that predicts who benefits from getting the blood clot taken out," Dr. Lowenkopf says. "The DEFUSE 3 study looked at patients in the six- to 16-hour time window, and the DAWN study looked at patients in the six- to 24-hour window. What they did that was innovative is they took a picture of the brain. In strokes where a large vessel was blocked by a blood clot, they could use perfusion imaging to determine whether opening up the blood vessel would be beneficial. The image could determine if there was salvageable brain tissue that's still getting enough blood flow."
In these studies, patient treated with the clot retrieval device had nearly a 50% chance of surviving their stroke with minimal or no disability. That chance was about 17% in those not receiving treatment. Based on these results, stroke treatment guidelines were rewritten to include patients in an expanded 24-hour window.
If you don't live near a facility that performs this clot-removal procedure, you'll want to make sure your hospital is part of a telestroke network, where an expert in the field can assess you remotely.
The Providence Telestroke Network provides hospitals throughout Oregon and Southern Washington with an around-the-clock portal to Providence Stroke Center, improving stroke care and producing evidence-backed results.
When a patient goes into an ER, he will get a CAT scan, which is an x-ray of the head and the brain, and that will show whether it's a bleeding or nonbleeding stroke. "Roughly 15 percent of strokes are not caused by a blood clot but by bleeding in the brain, so those people are not candidates for treatment," Dr. Lowenkopf says.
If it's a nonbleeding stroke, the patient will get a CT angiogram to see if it's a larger blood vessel that is blocked. If it's a larger vessel and it's still within the six- to 24-hour window, the patient will be transferred to a hospital with perfusion imaging and the capability to remove the clot. (If it's a smaller blood vessel, the device can't retract the clot. Those patients usually respond better to clot-dissolving medication, but treatment needs to happen earlier than with the clot removal.)
"This has dramatically changed the landscape," Dr. Lowenkopf says. "We are able to treat many more patients in this extended time window and we are getting appropriate outcomes."
With strokes, it pays to BEFAST
Even though there is now more time to treat the stroke, it's still crucial to call 911 and get to the hospital as soon as possible, Dr. Lowenkopf stresses. "When a stroke is happening, 2 million brain cells are dying every minute. The chances that you will recover without disability are still based on recognizing symptoms and treating them."
Because it's important to know the signs of a stroke, Dr. Lowenkopf recommends using the acronym BEFAST to easily remember them:
Balance: The sudden onset of loss of balance
Eyes: A change in eyesight—blurred vision, double vision, loss of vision
Face: When you smile one side of the face does not move
Arms: The arm doesn't move or it drifts when you try to move it
Speech: Trouble producing or understanding speech (for instance, slurring your words)
Time: If you see any of these symptoms, call 911. The key to effective stroke treatment is early symptom recognition and getting to a hospital where you can be treated.
Stroke hero - Grateful her boss knew the signs of stroke:
Even though this is an incredibly exciting time because many more stroke patients can be treated, Dr. Lowenkopf urges you to remember that "the best stroke is the one that never happens."
"Most strokes can be prevented. Know what the risk factors are and if you do have risk factors work with your health care provider to make sure those risks are being addressed."
The single most important risk factor for stroke is high blood pressure — Dr. Lowenkopf says the goal should be less than 130/85 most of the time. Smoking, heart disease and high cholesterol are all other risk factors that can be controlled with medication, a healthy diet and an active lifestyle. "If people controlled their blood pressure and other risk factors, there would be about 70 percent fewer strokes in the United States every year," Dr. Lowenkopf says.
Visit Brain Academy, powered by Providence Brain and Spine Institute, for a comprehensive suite of neuroscience education resources.
If you want to talk to a physician about your stroke risk and how to control it, find a healthcare provider in our online directory:
Dan Pierce, MD at Providence St. Patrick Hospital - a primary stroke center in Missoula, Montana - talks about the TeleStroke system that allows for earlier diagnosis and treatment of stroke:
CA: Providence Neuroscience Services; Providence Telestroke California
AK: Providence Alaska Neuroscience Center
Providence Brain Institute patient journeys - Ted Lowenkopf, M.D. and stroke patient:
Ask an Expert: Can you have a stroke and not know it?
Stroke risks rise with alcohol consumption
Guard your heart: How to prevent, survive and recover from a heart attack
Stroke hero – Stroke survivor Stephanie shares how her mother and coworkers made a difference in saving her life:
The incidence of the intestinal disease diverticulitis appears to be increasing; the cause is not definitiv...
