Telemed - Design and Manufacturing Services for Ultrasound Scanners
Design and Manufacturing Services for Ultrasound Beamformers and Software
Telemed designs and manufactures ultrasound scanners and imaging systems.
+370 5 2106272
+370 5 2306733
Ultrasound scanners and design, development and manufacturing
We provide contract development, design, and manufacturing services for ultrasound beamformers and software. This includes prototyping, acoustic and temperature measurements.
Telemed has more than 20 years of experience designing front-end, signal and image-processing circuits for medical ultrasound equipment.
We focus on portable PC-based beamformers, which can be connected using a USB2.0 interface. Our software development kit (SDK) allows easy and quick integration of beamformers into the client's system.
Our design and production quality is ensured by certification that includes:
CE certificate of conformity for all end-user ultrasound scanners
FDA 510k approval for selected products
Health Canada Medical device licence for selected products
Pocket-sized USB-powered beamformers for ultrasound imaging systems
Our beamformers for B/W ultrasound scanners are pocket-sized USB-powered MicrUs with an easy-to-configure Echo Blaster 128. MicrUs is a new generation of ultra-compact beamformers and fanless devices, designed for pocket-sized and point of care ultrasound imaging systems.
This range of beamformers offer ultrasound screening in B, M and B/M modes, together with speckle reduction processing and spatial compound imaging. Various transducers can be connected and disconnected easily due to advanced probe recognition technology.
The device consumes 0.9A and can be powered by an external 5V power supply. It is available as a single-probe OEM board called MicrUs OEM-H, with the dimensions 10cmx10cmx1cm and weighing 0.2kg.
Echo Blaster 128 is a range of configurable beamformers designed for middle range ultrasound scanners. Features include a stackable board configuration, allowing the easy connection of standard linear or convex probes
Unique transrectal biplane probes, used for urology applications can also be connected.
Echo Blaster 128 OEM-1Z has one probe port and measures 14.5cmx20cmx5.5cm
Echo Blaster 128 INT-2Z has two probe ports, measuring 14.5cmx21.5cmx12.7cm
Single-board beamformer modules for medical ultrasound
Our range of beamformers for colour doppler scanners include LS 64, LS 128, ClarUs and SmartUs.
The LS64 beamformer is a single-board ultrasound module, designed for portable battery powered colour doppler scanners. It is compatible with B, M, CFM, PDI and PWD modes.
LS64OEM-1T beamformer has a single probe port and measures 30cmx19cmx2cm
LS64OEM-2T has two probe ports and measures 30cmx15cmx2cm
The LS 64 can be matched with a battery board to extend its functionality.
Beamformers with spatial compound and tissue harmonic imaging modes
LS128 is the broadest range of Telemed beamformers, which includes five devices. In addition to B/W and doppler modes, LS128 provides B-steer, spatial compound imaging, trapezoid and tissue harmonic imaging modes.
Various modifications allow up to three probes to be connected at the same time.
The ClarUs range was developed as a modification of LS128, which is smaller with improved bandwidth, allowing the connection of high-frequency probes. ClarUs is also available as a single probe port version, ClarUs OEM-1M.
With a single-crystal sector transducer, high-frequency linear and convex transducers, SmartUs is the first system that can be used in cardiology and neurology. Other features include spatial compounding, harmonics, virtual convex and B-steer imaging.
SmartUs is capable of driving high-density and high-frequency transducers, delivering detailed, rich and high-dynamic range images.
In addition to B/W and doppler modes, continuous wave doppler (CWD) and iTHI modes are included in a standard package.
SmartUs is available in two versions. SmartUs OEM-1M has a single probe port and SmartUs OEM-3M has three probe ports, measuring 14cmx17.5cmx8cm.
Drivers, graphic user interface and speckle reduction software for ultrasound beamformers
A drivers package for OS Windows is offered for all ultrasound beamformers. Telemed also provides a free SDK for system developers and standard graphical user interface GUI EchoWave II.
Speckle reduction modules are a part of SDK, provided free of charge, and speckle filters can be optimised on request.
A new drug to help protect the public against two bioterrorism threats and provide a new option to treat antibiotic-resistant infections will advance in development under a public-private partnership, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) announced this week.
“Antibiotic resistance adversely impacts our nation’s ability to respond effectively to a bioterrorism attack and to everyday public health threats,” said Robin Robinson, Ph.D., director of ASPR’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), which will oversee the project. “By partnering with industry to develop novel antimicrobial drugs against biothreats that also treat drug-resistant bacteria, we can address health security and public health needs efficiently.”
BARDA will support the development of Carbavance under a five-year cost-sharing agreement with Rempex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of The Medicines Company) in San Diego. The agreement includes an initial commitment from BARDA of $19.8 million and can be extended to provide up to $90 million over the five years.
The two bioterrorism threats are melioidosis and glanders. With existing antibiotic treatments, approximately 40 percent of people who become ill from these bacteria die from the illness, and up to 90 percent die if not treated.
Melioidosis, also called Whitmore’s disease, can be mistaken for other diseases such as tuberculosis and common forms of pneumonia. Melioidosis is caused by a Gram-negative bacterium, Burkholderia pseudomallei, found in soil and water. The bacteria can cause infection when a person touches or inhales the bacteria. The infection is common in parts of Southeast Asia and northern Australia.
Glanders is a respiratory disease that can affect people, although it is primarily found in animals. The bacteria that cause glanders, Burkholderia mallei, can affect skin, blood, lungs, or muscles, and may be transmitted through direct contact with infected animals or by inhaling contaminated aerosols or dust.
Melioidosis and glanders can become resistant to existing antibiotics.
In addition to showing promise as a treatment for melioidosis and glanders in a bioterrorism event, Carbavance potentially could be used commercially to treat complicated urinary tract infections, hospital-acquired pneumonia, ventilator-acquired pneumonia, and carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), all of which can be resistant to existing antibiotics.
CRE are a family of bacteria that have been called nightmare bacteria because the bacteria are resistant to all or nearly all antibiotics, kill up to half of people who get serious infections with them, and can spread their resistance to other bacteria. CRE infections have been detected in nearly every state, and the incidence has risen sharply over the past five years.
Patients whose care requires devices such as ventilators, urinary (bladder) catheters, or intravenous (vein) catheters, and patients who are taking long courses of certain antibiotics are most at risk for CRE infections.
The project includes preclinical and clinical studies, manufacture of enough of the drug for clinical studies, and other manufacturing-related activities needed to apply for U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of the drug.
The project with Rempex is the latest in a BARDA program that supports development of broad-spectrum antimicrobials, technologies and platforms for biodefense needs that simultaneously address other public health challenges, such antibiotic-resistant infections.
BARDA is seeking additional proposals for advanced development of novel antimicrobials to treat illness caused by biological threat agents and that also could address the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. Proposals are accepted through the Broad Agency Announcement BARDA-BAA-13-100-SOL-00013.
Source: HHS.gov
Tags: AntimicrobialsASPRBAABARDABioterrorismBurkholderiaHHS
Related Posts
Medical Countermeasures
NIH Grant Will Expand National Swine Resource and Research Center
October 25, 2022
Medical Countermeasures
Study: Cash Incentives and Lotteries Do Little to Increase Adult Vaccinations
October 25, 2022
Preparedness
Predictive Intelligence for Pandemic Prevention Grant Awarded to Virginia Tech Researchers
October 25, 2022
Outbreak News
How Prepared is Uganda for the Current Ebola Outbreak?
September 24, 2022
Load More
Latest News
Biodefense Headlines – 30 October 2022
October 30, 2022
Prescribed Fire Could Reduce Tick Populations and Pathogen Transmission
October 26, 2022
Virginia Institutes Partner to Join National Pathogen Genomics Centers of Excellence Network
October 25, 2022
NIH Grant Will Expand National Swine Resource and Research Center
October 25, 2022
Subscribe
First Name
Last Name
Organization Type Organization Type Private Sector/Industry Academic Federal Government State/Local Government Military Non-Profit Media/PR Other
Home » Where the Money Goes » ALSF Funded Projects » Development of Immunostimulatory DNA as a Novel Therapy in Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
Development of Immunostimulatory DNA as a Novel Therapy in Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
Institution:
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
Researcher(s):
Alix Seif, MD, MPH
Grant Type:
Young Investigator Grants
Year Awarded:
2008
Type of Childhood Cancer:
Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)
Project Description:
Background
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer. While current therapies have resulted in significant improvements in survival, relapsed ALL does not usually respond to chemotherapy. If a child does eventually respond to more intensive chemotherapy, bone marrow transplant offers the best chance for cure, although with significant risks of severe illness or death.
Project Goal
We are investigating a therapy that stimulates the immune system, much like an infection would. Our hope is that with this treatment, the child’s body would attack his or her own leukemia cells in a similar way to how the immune system would attack a bacteria or virus. This would provide a form of treatment to children with high-risk leukemia that will avoid some of the toxic effects of traditional chemotherapy or bone marrow transplant. In addition, we hope that this vaccine-like effect would provide long-term protection from relapse for these children.
Working at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, we are touched by Alex Scott and her lemonade stand on a daily basis. She lives on in the hearts of every staff member who had the privilege to care for her. Alex was a true hero, and I am incredibly grateful to have the opportunity to provide a scientific contribution to help other children fighting cancers in her honor.
Featured Hero
Matilda Garcia
Matilda is a sweet 5-year-old who never asked, "Why me?" when she was diagnosed with stage 2 Wilms tumor. After a rollercoaster of treatment, Matilda is now in remission and continues to be her positive self!
Resolving the Tension Between Exploration and Confirmation in Preclinical Biomedical Research | SpringerLink
Good Research Practice in Non-Clinical Pharmacology and Biomedicine pp 71-79 | Cite as
Resolving the Tension Between Exploration and Confirmation in Preclinical Biomedical Research
Confirmation through competent replication is a founding principle of modern science. However, biomedical researchers are rewarded for innovation, and not for confirmation, and confirmatory research is often stigmatized as unoriginal and as a consequence faces barriers to publication. As a result, the current biomedical literature is dominated by exploration, which to complicate matters further is often disguised as confirmation. Only recently scientists and the public have begun to realize that high-profile research results in biomedicine can often not be replicated. Consequently, confirmation has become central stage in the quest to safeguard the robustness of research findings. Research which is pushing the boundaries of or challenges what is currently known must necessarily result in a plethora of false positive results. Thus, since discovery, the driving force of scientific progress, is unavoidably linked to high false positive rates and cannot support confirmatory inference, dedicated confirmatory investigation is needed for pivotal results. In this chapter I will argue that the tension between the two modes of research, exploration and confirmation, can be resolved if we conceptually and practically separate them. I will discuss the idiosyncrasies of exploratory and confirmatory studies, with a focus on the specific features of their design, analysis, and interpretation.
False negative False positive Preclinical randomized controlled trial Replication Reproducibility Statistics
Science, the endless frontier (V. Bush)
To boldly go where no man has gone before (G. Roddenberry)
Non-reproducible single occurrences are of no significance to science (K. Popper)
Scientists' and the public's view on science is based toward innovation, novelty, and discovery. Discoveries, however, which represent single occurrences that cannot be reproduced are of no significance to science (Popper 1935). Confirmation through competent replication has therefore been a founding principle of modern science since its origins in the renaissance. Most scientists are aware of the need to confirm their own or other's results and conclusions. Nevertheless, they are rewarded for innovation, and not for confirmation. Confirmatory research is often stigmatized as unoriginal and faces barriers to publication. As a result, the current biomedical literature is dominated by exploration, which is often disguised as confirmation. In fact, many published articles claim that they have discovered a phenomenon and confirmed it with the same experiment, which is a logical impossibility: the same data cannot be used to generate and test a hypothesis. In addition, exploratory results are often garnished with far-reaching claims regarding the relevance of the observed phenomenon for the future treatment or even cure of a disease. As the results of exploration can only be tentative, such claims need to be founded on confirmed results.
2 Discrimination Between Exploration and Confirmation
Recently, scientists and the public have become concerned that research results often cannot be replicated (Begley and Ellis 2012; Prinz et al. 2011; Baker 2016) and that the translation of biomedical discovery to improved therapies for patients has a very high attrition rate (Dirnagl 2016). Undoubtedly the so-called replication crisis and the translational roadblock have complex roots, including importantly the sheer complexity of the pathophysiology of most diseases and the fact that many of the "low-hanging fruits" (e.g., antibiotics, antidiabetics, antihypertensives, treatments for multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and epilepsy, to name but a few) have already been picked. Nevertheless, results which are confounded by biases and lack statistical power must often be false (Ioannidis 2005) and hence resist confirmation. I will argue that the two modes of research need to be separated and clinical translation of preclinical evidence be based on confirmation (Kimmelman et al. 2014). Thus, exploration and confirmation are equally important for the progress of biomedical research: In exploratory investigation, researchers should aim at generating robust pathophysiological theories of disease. In confirmatory investigation, researchers should aim at demonstrating strong and reproducible treatment effects in relevant animal models. In what follows I will explore what immediate and relevant consequences this has for the design of experiments, their analysis, interpretation, and publication.
3 Exploration Must Lead to a High Rate of False Positives
Research which is pushing the boundaries of or challenges what is currently known must result in a plethora of false positive results. In fact, the more original initial findings are, the less likely it is that they can subsequently be confirmed. This is the simple and straightforward result of the fact that cutting edge or even paradigm shifting (Kuhn 1962) research must operate with low base rates, that is, low prior probabilities that the tested hypotheses are actually true. Or in other words, the more mainstream and less novel research is, the likelier it is that it will find its hypotheses to be true. This can easily be framed statistically, either frequentist or Bayesian. For example, if research operates with a probability that 10% of its hypotheses are true, which is a conservative estimate, and accepts type I errors at 5% (alpha-level) and type II errors at 20% (i.e., 80% power), almost 40% of the times, it rejects the NULL hypothesis (i.e., finds a statistically significant result), while the NULL hypothesis is actually true (false positive) (Colquhoun 2014). In other words, under those conditions, which are actually unrealistic in preclinical medicine in which power is often 50% and less (Button et al. 2013; Dirnagl 2006), the positive predictive value (PPV) of results is much worse than the type I error level. This has grave consequences, in particular as many researchers confuse PPV and significance level, nurturing their delusion that they are operating at a satisfactory level of wrongly accepting their hypothesis in only 5% of the cases. As a corollary, under those conditions true effect sizes will be overestimated by almost 50%. For a detailed discussion and R-code to simulate different scenarios, see Colquhoun (2014).
4 The Garden of Forking Paths
The "Garden of Forking Paths" (1944) is a metaphor which the statisticians Gelman and Loken (2013) have borrowed from Jorge Luis Borges' (1899–1986) novel for their criticism of experimental design, analysis, and interpretation of psychological and biomedical research: In exploratory investigation, researchers trail on branched-out paths through a garden of knowledge. And as poetic as this wandering might seem, it withholds certain dangers. On his way through the labyrinth, the researcher proceeds in an inductively deterministic manner. He (or she) does not at all notice the many levels of freedom available to him. These will arise, for example, through an alternative analysis (or interpretations) of the experiment, fluke false positive or false negative results, the choice for an alternative antibody or mouse strain, or from the choice of another article as the basis for further experiments and interpretations. The labyrinth is of infinite size, and there is not only one way through it, but many, and there are many exits. And since our researcher is proceeding exploratively, he has set up no advance rules according to which he should carry out his analyses or plan further experiments. So the many other possible results escape his notice, since he is following a trail that he himself laid. In consequence, he overestimates the strength of evidence that he generates. In particular, he overestimates what a significant p-value means regarding his explorative wanderings. He should compare his results with all the alternative analyses and interpretations that he could have carried out, which is obviously an absurd suggestion. Indeed, in the Garden of Forking Paths, the classic definition of statistical significance (e.g., p < 0.05) does not apply, for it states that in the absence of an effect, the probability of bumping coincidentally into a similarly extreme or even more extreme result is lower than 5%. You would have to factor in all data and analyses that would be possible in the garden. Each of these other paths could also have led to statistically significant results. Such a comparison however is impossible in explorative research. If you nonetheless do generate p-values, you will, according to Gelman and Loken, get a "machine for the production and publication of random patterns." A consequence of all this is that our knowledge derived from exploration is less robust than the chain of statistically significant results might have us believe and that the use of test statistics in exploration is of little help or may even be superfluous if not even misleading.
At this point we must summarize that exploratory research, even if of the highest quality and without selective use of data, p-hacking (collecting, selecting, or analyzing data until statistically nonsignificant results become significant), or HARKING ("hypothesizing after the results are known"), leads to at best tentative results which provide the basis for further inquiry and confirmation. In this context it is sobering that Ronald Fisher, a founding father of modern frequentist statistics, considered results which are significant at the 5% level only "worth a second look" (Nuzzo 2014). Today clinical trials may be based on such preclinical findings.
5 Confirmation Must Weed Out the False Positives of Exploration
Since discovery is unavoidably linked to high false positive rates and cannot support confirmatory inference, dedicated confirmatory investigation is needed for pivotal results. Results are pivotal and must be confirmed if they are the basis for further investigation and thus drain resources, if they directly or indirectly might impact on human health (e.g., by informing the design of future clinical development, including trials in humans (Yarborough et al. 2018)), or if they are challenging accepted evidence in a field. Exploration must be very sensitive, since it must be able to faithfully capture rare but critical results (e.g., a cure for Alzheimer disease or cancer); confirmation on the other hand must be highly specific, since further research on and development of a false positive or non-robust finding is wasteful and unethical (Al-Shahi Salman et al. 2014).
6 Exact Replication Does Not Equal Confirmation
Many experimentalists routinely replicate their own findings and only continue a line of inquiry when the initial finding was replicated. This is laudable, but a few caveats apply. For one, a replication study which exactly mimics the original study in terms of its design may not be as informative as most researchers suspect. Counterintuitively, in an exact replication, with new samples but same sample size and treatment groups, and assuming that the effect found in the original experiment with p < 0.05 (but p ≈ 0.05) equals the true population effect, the probability of replication (being the probability of getting again a significant result of the same or larger effect) is only 50% (Goodman 1992). In other words, the predictive value of an exact replication of a true finding that was significant close to the 5% level is that of a coin toss! Incidentally, this is the main reason why phase III clinical trials (which aim at confirmation) have much larger sample sizes than phase II trials (which aim at exploration). For further details on sample size calculation of replication studies, see Simonsohn (2015).
A second problem of exact replications, in particular if performed by the same group which has made the initial observation, is the problem of systematic errors. One of the most embarrassing and illustrative examples for a botched replication in the recent history of science relates to the discovery of neutrinos that travel faster than the speed of light. The results of a large international experiment conducted by physicists of high repute convulsed not only the field of physics; it shook the whole world. Neutrinos had been produced by the particle accelerator at CERN in Geneva and sent on a 730 km long trip. Their arrival was registered by a detector blasted through thousands of meters of rock in the Dolomites. Unexpectedly, the neutrinos arrived faster than would the photons travelling the same route. The experiment was replicated several times, and the results remained significant with a p-value of less than 3 × 10−7. In the weeks following the publication (the OPERA Collaboration 2011) and media excitement, the physicists found that the GPS used to measure distances was not correctly synchronized and a cable was loose.
7 Design, Analysis, and Interpretation of Exploratory vs Confirmatory Studies
Thus, exploratory and confirmatory investigation necessitates different study designs. Confirmation is not the simple replication of an exploratory experiment. Exploratory and confirmatory investigation differs in many aspects. While exploration may start without any hypothesis ("unbiased"), a proper hypothesis is the obligatory starting point of any confirmation. Exploration investigates physiological or pathophysiological mechanisms or aims at drug discovery. The tentative findings of exploration, if relevant at all, need to be confirmed. Confirmation of the hypothesis is the default primary endpoint of the confirmatory investigation, while secondary endpoints may be explored. Both modes need to be of high internal validity, which means that they need to effectively control biases (selection, detection, attrition, etc.) through randomization, blinding, and prespecification of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Of note, control of bias is as important in exploration as in confirmation. To establish an experimental design and analysis plan before the onset of the study may be useful in exploration but is a must in confirmation. Generalizability is of greater importance in confirmation than in exploration, which therefore needs to be of high external validity. Depending on the disease under study, this may include the use of aged or comorbid animals. Statistical power is important in any type of experimental study, as low power results not only in a high false negative rate but also increases the number of false positive findings and leads to an overestimation of effect sizes (Button et al. 2013). However, as exploration aims at finding what might work or is "true," type II error should be minimized and therefore statistical power high. Conversely, as confirmation aims at weeding out the false positive, type I error becomes a major concern. To make sure that statistical power is sufficient to detect the targeted effect sizes, a priori sample size calculation is recommended in exploratory mode but obligatory in confirmation where achievable effect sizes and variance can be estimated from previous exploratory evidence. Due to manifold constraints, which include the fact that exploration (1) often collects many endpoints and hence multiple group comparisons are made, (2) is usually underpowered, and (3) comes with an almost unlimited degree of freedom of the researcher with respect to selection of animal strains, biologicals, and selection of outcome parameters and their analysis ("Garden of Forking Paths," see above and (Gelman and Loken 2013)), statistical significance tests (like t-test, ANOVA, etc.) are of little use; the focus in exploration should rather be on proper descriptive statistics, including measures of variance and confidence intervals. Conversely, in confirmatory mode, the prespecified analysis plan needs to describe the planned statistical significance test. To prevent outcome switching and publication bias, in confirmatory studies the hypothesis, experimental, and analysis plan should be preregistered (Nosek et al. 2018). Preregistration can be embargoed until the results of the study are published and are therefore not detrimental to intellectual property claims. Table 1 gives a tentative overview of some of the idiosyncrasies of exploratory and confirmatory investigation.
Suggested differences between exploratory and confirmatory preclinical study designs
Establish pathophysiology, discover drugs, etc.
External validity (aging, comorbidities, etc.)
Experimental and analysis plan established before study onset
Inclusion/exclusion criteria (prespecified)
Sensitivity (type II error): find what might work
Specificity (type I error): weed out false positives
Modified with permission (Dirnagl 2016), for details see text
8 No Publication Without Confirmation?
Vis a vis the current masquerading of exploratory preclinical investigations as confirmation of new mechanisms of disease or potential therapeutic breakthroughs, Mogil and Macleod went as far as proposing a new form of publication for animal studies of disease therapies or preventions, the "preclinical trial." In it, researchers besides presenting a novel mechanism of disease or therapeutic approach incorporate an independent, statistically rigorous confirmation of the central hypothesis. Preclinical trials would be more formal and rigorous than the typical preclinical testing conducted in academic labs and would adopt many practices of a clinical trial (Mogil and Macleod 2017).
It is uncertain whether scientists or journals will pick up this sensible proposal in the near future. Meanwhile, another novel type of publication, at least in the preclinical realm, is gaining traction: preregistration. When preregistering a study, the researcher commits in advance to the hypothesis that will be tested, the study design, as well as the analysis plan. This provides full transparency and prevents HARKING, p-hacking, and many other potential barriers to the interpretability and credibility of research findings. Preregistration is not limited to but ideally suited for confirmatory studies of high quality. In fact, it may be argued that journals should mandate preregistration when processing and publishing confirmatory studies.
9 Team Science and Preclinical Multicenter Trials
Confirmation lacks the allure of discovery and is usually more resource intense. It requires higher sample sizes and benefits from multilab approaches which come with considerable organizational overhead. Permission from regulatory authorities may be hard to obtain, as the repetition of animal experiments combined with upscaling of sample sizes may antagonize the goal to reduce animal experimentation. Publication of confirmatory results faces bigger hurdles than those of novel results. Failure to confirm a result may lead to tensions between the researchers who published the initial finding and those who performed the unsuccessful confirmation. Potential hidden moderators and context sensitivity of the finding dominate the resulting discussion, as does blaming those who failed confirmation of incompetence. In short, confirmatory research at present is not very attractive. This dire situation can only be overcome if a dedicated funding stream supports team science and confirmatory studies, and researchers are rewarded (and not stigmatized) for this fundamentally important scientific activity. It is equally important to educate the scientific community that results from exploratory research even of the highest quality are inherently tentative and that failure of competent replication of such results does not disqualify their work but is rather an element of the normal progression of science.
It is promising that several international consortia have teamed up in efforts to develop guidelines for international collaborative research in preclinical biomedicine (MULTIPART 2016) or to demonstrate that confirmatory preclinical trials can be conducted and published (Llovera et al. 2015) with a reasonable budget.
10 Resolving the Tension Between Exploration and Confirmation
Science advances by exploration and confirmation (or refutation). The role of exploration is currently overemphasized, which may be one reason of the current "replication crisis" and the translational roadblock. In addition, generation of postdictions is often mistaken with the testing of predictions (Nosek et al. 2018); in other words exploration is confounded with exploration. We need to leverage the complementary strengths of both modes of investigation. This will help to improve the refinement of pathophysiological theories, as well as the generation of reliable evidence in disease models for the efficacy of treatments in humans. Adopting a two-pronged approach of exploration-confirmation requires that we shift the balance which is currently biased toward exploration back to confirmation. Researchers need to be trained in how to competently engage in high-quality exploration and confirmation. Funders and institutions need to establish mechanisms to fund and reward confirmatory investigation.
Al-Shahi Salman R et al (2014) Increasing value and reducing waste in biomedical research regulation and management. Lancet 383:176–185CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Begley CG, Ellis LM (2012) Drug development: raise standards for preclinical cancer research. Nature 483:531–533CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Button KS et al (2013) Power failure: why small sample size undermines the reliability of neuroscience. Nat Rev Neurosci 14:365–376CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Colquhoun D (2014) An investigation of the false discovery rate and the misinterpretation of P values. R Soc Open Sci 1:1–15. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140216 CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Dirnagl U (2006) Bench to bedside: the quest for quality in experimental stroke research. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab 26:1465–1478CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Dirnagl U (2016) Thomas Willis lecture: is translational stroke research broken, and if so, how can we fix it? Stroke 47:2148–2153CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Gelman A, Loken E (2013) The garden of forking paths: why multiple comparisons can be a problem, even when there is no "fishing expedition" or "p-hacking" and the research hypothesis was posited ahead of time. http://www.stat.columbia.edu/~gelman/research/unpublished/p_hacking.pdf. Accessed 23 Aug 2018
Goodman SN (1992) A comment on replication, p-values and evidence. Stat Med 11:875–879CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Ioannidis JPA (2005) Why most published research findings are false. PLoS Med 2:e124CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Kimmelman J, Mogil JS, Dirnagl U (2014) Distinguishing between exploratory and confirmatory preclinical research will improve translation. PLoS Biol 12:e1001863CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Kuhn TS (1962) The structure of scientific revolutions. The University of Chicago Press, ChicagoGoogle Scholar
Llovera G et al (2015) Results of a preclinical randomized controlled multicenter trial (pRCT): anti-CD49d treatment for acute brain ischemia. Sci Transl Med 7:299ra121CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Mogil JS, Macleod MR (2017) No publication without confirmation. Nature 542:409–411CrossRefGoogle Scholar
MULTIPART. Multicentre preclinical animal research team. http://www.dcn.ed.ac.uk/multipart/. Accessed 23 May 2016
Nosek BA, Ebersole CR, DeHaven AC, Mellor DT (2018) The preregistration revolution. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 115:2600–2606CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Nuzzo R (2014) Statistical errors: P values, the 'gold standard' of statistical validity, are not as reliable as many scientists assume. Nature 506:150–152CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Popper K (1935) Logik der Forschung. Springer, BerlinCrossRefGoogle Scholar
Prinz F, Schlange T, Asadullah K (2011) Believe it or not: how much can we rely on published data on potential drug targets? Nat Rev Drug Discov 10:712CrossRefGoogle Scholar
Simonsohn U (2015) Small telescopes. Psychol Sci 26:559–569CrossRefGoogle Scholar
The OPERA Collaboration et al (2011) Measurement of the neutrino velocity with the OPERA detector in the CNGS beam. https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP10(2012)093
Yarborough M et al (2018) The bench is closer to the bedside than we think: uncovering the ethical ties between preclinical researchers in translational neuroscience and patients in clinical trials. PLoS Biol 16:e2006343CrossRefGoogle Scholar
1.Department of Experimental Neurology and Center for Stroke Research BerlinCharité – Universitätsmedizin BerlinBerlinGermany
2.QUEST Center for Transforming Biomedical Research, Berlin Institute of Health (BIH)BerlinGermany
Dirnagl U. (2019) Resolving the Tension Between Exploration and Confirmation in Preclinical Biomedical Research. In: Bespalov A., Michel M., Steckler T. (eds) Good Research Practice in Non-Clinical Pharmacology and Biomedicine. Handbook of Experimental Pharmacology, vol 257. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/164_2019_278
New Data For Zonegran® (Zonisamide) to be Presented at The European Paediatric Neurology Society Congress
25 Sep, 2013, 00:01 BST
HATFIELD, England, September 25, 2013 /PRNewswire/ --
New Zonegran® (zonisamide) data in adolescents and children will be presented at the EPNS congress in Brussels.[1],[2],[3]On 25 July, Eisai received CHMP positive opinion to extend the current indication for zonisamide in the European Union (EU) to include adjunctive treatment of partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation for adolescents and children aged 6 years and above. This indication is awaiting final European Commission ratification.
Epilepsy is a common condition in children and adolescents, affecting around 10.5 million worldwide, with nearly one million living in Europe.[4],[5]Although epilepsy is common among children and adolescents, only two thirds will achieve seizure control and many will require additional AEDs to improve seizure control.[6]
Two of the abstracts focus on long-term safety and efficacy data for zonisamide as an adjunctive therapy in paediatric patients (6 - 18 years old) with partial epilepsy.[7] The first study demonstrated an acceptable long-term (>1 year) safety profile versus placebo with no consistent detrimental effects on growth and development skills.[4] The second demonstrated that efficacy versus placebo in this patient group was maintained over a treatment period of >1 year.[5] A third study presented is a pooled safety analysis of 17 studies and demonstrated that zonisamide has an acceptable safety profile when used as an adjunctive treatment in paediatric patients.[6]
Zonisamide is an anti-epileptic drug (AED) with multiple mechanisms of action and a structure which is chemically unrelated to any other AED.[8] Zonisamide is indicated in Europe as monotherapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in adults with newly diagnosed epilepsy and as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in adults.[4]
The zonisamide CHMP positive opinion and EMA application file are based on Study 312 (CATZ) published in Epilepsia in July 2013.[7] These data from a double-blind, randomised, multicentre, placebo-controlled Phase III study, showed that significantly more patients responded positively to treatment with zonisamide (50%) versus treatment with placebo (31%), p=0.0044.[7] The overall incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) was similar for zonisamide versus placebo.[7]
Zonisamide is licensed in Europe as monotherapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in adults with newly diagnosed epilepsy. Zonisamide is also indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in adults.[1] It has a broad spectrum of anti-epileptic modes of action and has no appreciable effects on steady-state plasma concentrations of other AEDs, such as phenytoin, carbamazepine and valproate.[1] Zonegran is one of only four AEDs with level A efficacy/effectiveness evidence as initial monotherapy for adults with partial onset seizures.[9]
Phase III Study 312 (CATZ)[7]
Phase III Study 313 (CATZ Extension)[4],[5]
Pooled Data [6]
Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological conditions in the world.[9] There are an estimated six million people who live with epilepsy in Europe, and an estimated 50 million people with the condition worldwide. Epilepsy is a chronic disorder of the brain that affects people of all ages. It is characterised by abnormal discharges of neuronal activity which causes seizures. Seizures can vary in severity, from brief lapses of attention or jerking of muscles, to severe and prolonged convulsions. Depending on the seizure type, seizures may be limited to one part of the body, or may involve the whole body. Seizures can also vary in frequency from less than one per year, to several per day. Epilepsy has many possible causes but often the cause is unknown.
Zonegran® (zonisamide) as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in adults with partial onset seizures, with or without secondary generalisation. (Zonegran is under license from the originator Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma)
1. Guerrini R. et al. Safety and potential impact on growth and developmental skills of long-term adjunctive zonisamide therapy in paediatric patients with partial epilepsy. EPNS 2013 abstract 1765
2. Rosati, A. et al. Efficacy of long-term adjunctive zonisamide therapy in paediatric patients with partial epilepsy: results of an open-label extension study of a Phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. EPNS 2013 abstract 1768
3. Giorgi, L. et al. Safety of adjunctive zonisamide in paediatric epilepsy patients: results from a pooled analysis of 17 studies. EPNS 2013 abstract 1767
4. Guerrini R. et al. Epilepsy in children. The Lancet. 2006 367 (9509): 499-524
5. Forsgren L. et al. The epidemiology of epilepsy in Europe - a systematic review. European Journal of Neurology 2005: 12(4) 245-253)
6. Epilepsy Society. Medication for children. http [http://www.epilepsysociety.org.uk/AboutEpilepsy/Treatment/Medicationforchildren ] [Accessed 16 July 2012].
8. Eisai Ltd 2013. Zonegran Summary of Product Characteristics [http://www.medicines.org.uk/emc/medicine/16240/SPC/Zonegran+25%2c+50%2c+100+mg+Hard+Capsules ] (last updated February 2013)
5G Cbd – CBD Info
5G Cbd
CBD might have the ability to assist you manage anxiety. Researchers believe Relied on Source it might change the way your brain's receptors respond to serotonin, a chemical linked to mental health. Receptors are small proteins attached to your cells that get chemical messages and help your cells respond to different stimuli.
One research study Trusted Source discovered that a 600mg dosage of CBD assisted individuals with social anxiety provide a speech. Other early research studies made with animals have actually shown that CBD may help relieve anxiety by:
CBD has actually been in the news prior to, as a possible treatment for epilepsy. Research study is still in its early days. Researchers are evaluating how much CBD has the ability to lower the variety of seizures in individuals with epilepsy, along with how safe it is. The American Epilepsy Society mentions that cannabidiol research offers hope for seizure conditions, and that research study is currently being carried out to better comprehend safe use.
A study Relied on Source from 2016 worked with 214 people with epilepsy. The research study participants added oral doses of 2 to 5mg of CBD per day to their existing anti-epilepsy medications. The research study's scientists kept an eye on the individuals for 12 weeks, tape-recording any negative side effects and looking at the frequency of their seizures. In general, participants had 36.5 percent less seizures per month. However, serious adverse results were tape-recorded in 12 percent of the individuals.
Researchers are taking a look at a receptor situated in the brain to find out about the ways that CBD might help individuals with neurodegenerative disorders, which are diseases that trigger the brain and nerves to weaken over time. This receptor is known as CB1.
Alzheimer's illness numerous sclerosis (MS) Parkinson's illness stroke CBD oil may likewise decrease the swelling that can make neurodegenerative signs worse. More research study is needed to fully understand the impacts of CBD oil for neurodegenerative illness.
The results of CBD oil on your brain's receptors might likewise assist you handle pain. Research studies have revealed that marijuana can offer some advantages when taken after chemotherapy treatments. Other pre-clinical research studies sponsored by the National Institutes of Health are also taking a look at the role of cannabis in eliminating signs brought on by:.
arthritis chronic discomfort MS pain muscle pain spinal cord injuries Nabiximols (Sativex), a several sclerosis drug made from a combination of TCH and CBD, is approved in the United Kingdom and Canada to deal with MS discomfort. Researchers think the CBD in the drug may be contributing more with its anti-inflammatory properties than by acting against the discomfort. Clinical trials of CBD are needed to figure out whether it ought to be utilized for discomfort management.
The results of CBD on receptors in the immune system may help reduce general inflammation in the body. In turn, CBD oil might use advantages for acne management. A human study released in the Journal of Clinical Investigation discovered that the oil prevented activity in sebaceous glands. These glands are accountable for producing sebum, a natural oily compound that hydrates the skin. Too much sebum, nevertheless, can cause acne.
Some studies have actually investigated the function of CBD in avoiding cancer cell growth, however research is still in its early stages. The National Cancer Institute Trusted Source (NCI) states that CBD might help relieve cancer signs and cancer treatment negative effects. The NCI doesn't completely back any form of marijuana as a cancer treatment. The action of CBD that's appealing for cancer treatment is its capability to moderate inflammation and alter how cell reproduce. CBD has the result of decreasing the capability of some kinds of growth cells to reproduce.
CBD is extracted from cannabis plants as either an oil or powder. These can be mixed into creams or gels. They can be put into pills and taken orally, or rubbed on your skin. The numerous sclerosis drug nabiximols is sprayed as a liquid into your mouth. How CBD needs to be utilized depends largely on what it's being utilized for. Speak to your doctor prior to utilizing CBD oil. It hasn't been authorized by the U.S. Fda (FDA) for any medical usages, and it can have side effects.
One of the more perplexing pieces of this PPMS puzzle is that my brain lesions are not the typical ones seen with multiple sclerosis. They are different than the ones on my spine. To date, no doctor has been able to tell me why they are different, or what type of lesions they are. I have seen many neurologists over the years in my attempt to find a successful PPMS treatment and gain more insight into my condition. I am still searching for answers.
As for treatment, many medicines were discussed, always with a disclaimer that the data on the medications’ potential for slowing PPMS was discouraging. All had side effects, and considering I am a “lightweight” with medicines, I declined the treatments.
I try to eat a healthy diet and exercise regularly, but I am not consistent with either. I was on the high-dose biotin protocol for one year, from March 2015 to March 2016. I did see results at first: Pain in my spine disappeared, and I appeared to have more energy. But, as I continued on the biotin, I felt my walking was getting worse, so I stopped. But I am debating restarting the protocol even though my walking has continued to decline.
I was excited to ask my doctor about the newly available Ocrevus (ocrelizumab). But he said that at my age (61), they would only allow me to be on it for five years. I question if it would be advantageous to me, considering the side effects. I am still contemplating that, and I will discuss it further with my new neurologist.
I have seen many neurologists over the last 10 years. It appears that if I am not on a treatment, they don’t have much to say to me. At times, I feel like a lost cause. I have read on the internet that many people are happy with Ocrevus and the results they are seeing. While my doctors’ opinion matters most, I would really like to hear from those who have been on the Ocrevus treatment plan for PPMS. What has your experience with it been like?
Tagged high-dose biotin (MD1003), MRI, MS lesions, neurologist, neurologists, ocrelizumab (Ocrebus), Primary progressive MS (PPMS).
Thanks for sharing my brother. I was diagnosed in October 17 w PPMS, and Started taking Ocrevous in November. I became a grandfather in September diagnosed with a brain tumor in August, turned 50 in November and this news hit me like a ton of bricks. So I was glad to hear your perspective as you have had to deal with this for quit some time. I am still coming to gripps with the shock of the diagnosis and have bad days and not so bad days. It is consoling knowing whats going on with my body and I am learning and committed to grab this Bull by the horns and win.
Sorry for all you are going through Sid, but, it seems you have a great attitude! Congratulations on becoming
As part of the trial of ocrelizumab for PPMS..I think it was a good thing, not great. MS still sucks.
My future plans are to try new drugs(siponimod) that were trialed for SPMS..I thought my early symptoms were due to lifelong athletic injuries in college sports.
Tom Brake and the British Heart Foundation Call to Protect Funding for Life-Saving Research
Posted by Tom Brake Mp | Updated 2015-02-16
Tom Brake MP, earlier this month, attended a British Heart Foundation (BHF) event calling on the next government to guarantee the future of the science budget to protect life saving research.
Above: Tom with Emily Sullivan (8)
Tom threw his support behind the Wear It. Beat It. campaign on the 6th February that saw people of all ages come together to raise money for the nation's heart charity - the UK's biggest killer.
Tom met with Emily Sullivan (8), a child who has had 3 open-heart surgeries as a result of being born with 3 large holes in her heart. Thankfully, more and more people are surviving as a result of BHF research. However, without government support, the BHF's ability to fund world class research to prevent and treat cardiovascular disease (CVD) would be significantly reduced.
For every £1 that charities spend directly on medical research, the government contributes 26p to help fund the indirect costs. The BHF have called upon the next government to maintain this budget and commit to future increases.
"The Liberal Democrats have pledged to protect the science funding budget, as we believe that research in science and medicine is vital in providing the best possible support for people. I fully support this campaign celebrate BHF's fantastic work"
Prof. Peter Weissberg, Medical Director at the BHF said:
The fund is a vital partnership between Government, Charity and Universities and any cut to it would be extremely damaging to our life saving research and the fight against heart disease"
Work - Volume 33, issue 2 - Journals - IOS Press
Work - Volume 33, issue 2
DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2009-0859
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 133-133, 2009
Abstract: We describe how simulation and incident reporting can be used in combination to make the interaction between people, (medical) technology and organisation safer for patients and users. We provide the background rationale for our conceptual ideas and apply the concepts to the analysis of an actual incident report. Simulation can serve as a laboratory to analyse such cases and to create relevant and effective training scenarios based on such analyses. We will describe a methodological framework …for analysing simulation scenarios in a way that allows discovering and discussing mismatches between conceptual models of the device design and mental models users hold about the device and its use. We further describe how incident reporting systems can be used as one source of data to conduct the necessary needs analyses – both for training and further needs for closer analysis of specific devices or some of their special features or modes during usability analyses. Show more
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 135-143, 2009
The operating room: Architectural conditions and potential hazards
Authors: Koneczny, Sonja
Abstract: Ergonomics is still not fully implemented in the design of operation rooms (ORs). The OR staff has to deal with various ergonomic deficiencies which may be associated with potential hazards for the patient and/or the OR team. Three surveys were conducted among German OR staff at major conferences. Two of them dealt with the working conditions in the OR and were conducted among surgeons and OR nurses. The third survey queried OR nurses about the electrical safety in the …OR. In addition, a specially developed checklist was used to evaluate the work place OR in five German OR units and the staff of these OR units were queried with questionnaires adapted from the surveys. For this article a few of the deficiencies found in the ORs were chosen to serve as examples for the plethora of results gathered. Findings showed that there was a high potential for ergonomic improvement and therefore an increase in safety and comfort. Many of these deficiencies may be eased by simple means such as the reduction of the number of different devices and mandatory training in the use of the devices since device operation is one of the main causes leading to potential hazards in the OR. Other deficiencies, such as the cable routing in the OR, require more extensive intervention and/or the implementation of new techniques, for example the "wireless" OR. All these deficiencies demonstrate the need for better implementation of ergonomics into the OR and for individual solutions, as there is no such thing as an 'one-size-fits-all' solution for OR units. Show more
Keywords: Operating room, OR, architecture, checklist, survey, hazards, cables, devices
DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2009-0861
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 145-164, 2009
Ergonomic deficiencies in the operating room: Examples from minimally invasive surgery
Authors: Matern, Ulrich
Abstract: The importance of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) has constantly increased in the last 20 years. Laparoscopic removal of the gallbladder has become the gold standard with advantages for patients. However, in laparoscopy, the surgeon loses direct contact with the surgical site. Rather than seeing the entire surgical field including adjacent organs, the surgeon's vision is restricted by an optic and camera system. Pictures of the surgical site in the abdomen are presented on a monitor. Hand …eye coordination is decreasing because the operating team is not able to position the monitor at an ergonomically preferable position given that operation tables, constructed for open surgery where surgeons use short instruments, are too high for laparoscopic procedures where surgeons use long-shafted instruments. Additionally the degrees of freedom for camera movements and the instruments are limited, tactile feedback given in open surgery is lost. The typical design of instrument handles leads to pressure areas and nerve lesions. All these aspects force the surgeon into unnatural and uncomfortable body postures that can affect the outcome of the operation. An ideal posture for laparoscopic surgeons is described and ergonomic requirements for an optimal height of operation tables, monitor positions and man-machine interfaces are discussed. Show more
Keywords: Surgery, ergonomics, human factors, posture, instruments
DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2009-0862
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 165-168, 2009
Drug labeling and its impact on patient safety
Authors: Vredenburgh, Alison G. | Zackowitz, Ilene B.
Abstract: Adverse drug events (ADE) are defined as any medication error with significant potential to harm a patient [13]. Often times, ADE occur due to inadequate or ineffective systems of labeling. These ADE often result in mistakes in prescription adherence (compliance) with the prescription instructions. These mistakes are costly and can be deadly. Potential problems with drug labeling can occur in both in-patient and out-patient environments. This paper discusses some of the key issues to consider in …drug labeling and its impact on patient safety. Show more
Keywords: Medication, adverse reaction, prescriptions, warnings, adverse drug event (ADE), patient safety
DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2009-0863
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 169-174, 2009
Authors: Hignett, Sue | Griffiths, Paula
Abstract: As part of a larger research project the patient pathway was mapped for an emergency admission to identify the manual handling major risks. Focus group interviews were held with 25 key stakeholders from the acute, community and ambulance healthcare sectors and social services at 3 venues across the United Kingdom (UK). A detailed qualitative iterative analysis used 'cause and effect' or fishbone (Ishikawa) diagrams to identify key issues. Five themes emerged as generic risks throughout the …bariatric patient pathway, these were: patient factors including body shape, mobility, pain, co-operation, privacy, comfort and dignity; building (or vehicle) space and design, including space, clearance, floor surface, and safe working load of floor; equipment (manual handling and clinical) and furniture, including fit, maximum weight capacity, availability, suitability, compatibility, size, and effort to move; communication both within and between organisations; and organisational and staff issues, including policies, culture and staff availability and training. It was concluded that buildings, vehicles and equipment need to be designed to 'fit' a range of bariatric shapes and sizes so that bariatric patients could be accommodated in safety and comfort, and with minimal loss of dignity. Show more
Keywords: Patient pathway, risk management, moving and handling
DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2009-0864
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 175-180, 2009
Anthropometric measurements, job strain, and prevalence of musculoskeletal symptoms in female medical sonographersf
Authors: Hill, III, James J. | Slade, Martin D. | Russi, Mark B.
Abstract: Objective: Principal components analysis (PCA) was used to explore the relationship between anthropometric measurements, job strain and work organization factors and the prevalence of musculoskeletal symptoms/occupational injuries in medical sonographers. Methods: A cross-sectional survey of twenty-six female sonographers at a tertiary medical center completed a standardized symptom questionnaire and underwent anthropometric measurement. First aid events and OSHA reportable injuries were abstracted from employee health records. Results: 96% of …subjects reported some type of musculoskeletal symptoms within the past year, with shoulders (73%), low back (69%) and wrist/hand symptoms (54%) reported most often. PCA identified seven domains among the predictive variables: physical size, job strain, time on job, abdominal girth, work pace/variability, movement during study, and time spent standing. The magnitude and direction of effect for predicting musculoskeletal symptoms varied by symptom location. Abdominal girth was consistently associated with increased likelihood of reporting symptoms. Conclusion: Sonographers work in a high demand/low control environment. Future studies of sonographers may need to include measures of both physical size and job strain. Reducing risk factors for one anatomical location may increase the risk at another location in this population. Show more
DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2009-0865
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 181-189, 2009
Authors: Nilsson, Kerstin | Hertting, Anna | Petterson, Inga-Lill
Abstract: Background: This study focuses on employees' experience of occupational health in a radiology department within a Swedish university hospital during years of continual reorganisations. This department's stable personal health trends in terms of self-rated mental health and sick-leave rates diverged from the general trends of deteriorating working conditions in the hospital. Aim: The aim was to identify dimensions of working conditions as positive determinants contributing to occupational health in a …department of radiology undergoing continual reorganisations. Method: Open-ended interviews with twelve employees were transcribed and analyzed using content-analysis. Result: The employees experienced their new stimulating working tasks and a supporting organizational climate as important contributors to the healthy work condition. Conclusion: The positive effects of handling new technical challenges and the positive organisational climate, which were characterized by mutual trust, as well as work-confidence and respect for each others' competence, seem to function as buffering factors, balancing the negative effects of parallel downsizing and restructuring processes. Show more
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 191-200, 2009
Authors: Or, Calvin K.L. | Valdez, Rupa S. | Casper, Gail R. | Carayon, Pascale | Burke, Laura J. | Brennan, Patricia Flatley | Karsh, Ben-Tzion
Abstract: Sicker patients with greater care needs are being discharged to their homes to assume responsibility for their own care with fewer nurses available to aid them. This situation brings with it a host of human factors and ergonomic (HFE) concerns, both for the home care nurse and the home dwelling patient, that can affect quality of care and patient safety. Many of these concerns are related to the critical home care tasks of information access, communication, …and patient self-monitoring and self-management. Currently, a variety of health information technologies (HITs) are being promoted as possible solutions to those problems, but those same technologies bring with them a new set of HFE concerns. This paper reviews the HFE considerations for information access, communication, and patients self-monitoring and self-management, discusses how HIT can potentially mitigate current problems, and explains how the design and implementation of HIT itself requires careful HFE attention. Show more
Citation: Work, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 201-209, 2009
Abstract: This study collected staff responses to an occupancy quality survey before, and 6 and 22 months after, St. Paul Children's Hospitals and Clinics (CHC) replaced an open bay (OB) with a private room (PR) neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) design. Staff interview responses and task activity observations also were collected. The goal was to assess how this change would influence staff perceptions and performance. As a result of the transition from the OB to the PR …environment: (1) rankings of overall physical environment, patient care, job, technology, and off-the-job quality significantly improved; but (2) rankings of patient care team interaction quality significantly declined. Results for the 22-month PR survey indicate essentially no meaningful changes in rankings of occupancy quality from the 6-month survey, suggesting no consolidation of quality gains in the intervening 16-month period. Written comments pertaining to private room NICU design issues by survey respondents, targeting problems with unit operations, may explain this finding. Collectively, the findings suggest that NICU operational management was not effectively modified to deal with the new design, and that an OB to PR NICU transition requires a systems approach to macroergonomic challenges imposed by the new design. Show more
Prozac or Flouxetine Hydrochloride is a drug used to treat depression and is one of the medicines under the Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor or SSRI class. This drug is approved for the treatment of depression. Aside from this, it is also used for treating obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, and eating disorder called bulimia nervosa.
The emergence of new anti-depressant drugs did not stop the popularity of Prozac. It is third in over-all ranking in terms of the most prescribed drug for depression.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter inside neurons in the central nervous system. It plays a vital role to regulate various human emotional experiences such as anger, sexuality, appetite, mood, sleep, and aggression. Studies have revealed that if a person has a low level of serotonin in his body, he will be vulnerable to various psychological disorders such as anxiety and bipolar disorders. In some cases, there are also religious experiences, which patients with low serotonin levels are said to encounter.
The SSRI medicine attempts to control the level of serotonin. It aims to keep the level high by inhibiting the neuron's (brain cells} reabsorption of the neurotransmitter after transmittal has been done with a neural impulse or electrical discharge.
Fluoxetine drug is available in 10, 20, 40 and 60 mg dosage. Studies have confirmed that a 20 mg dosage/day of Prozac will result to a positive response in the treatment of major depressive disorder. This dosage is recommended taken every morning. Patients may only feel the full benefit of the drug from 4 weeks until up to 3 months of taking the treatment.
Studies made between Prozac and placebo tests revealed a number of side effects with the use of the drug. The side effects are seen in these areas: the digestive, cardiovascular and nervous system. The top side effects are weight gain, headache, nausea, insomnia, and nervousness. Though it has a wide variety of side effects, patients can generally tolerated them. There are possible sexual related side effects. These are anorgasmia -- a disorder wherein the patient cannot reach orgasm -- a decrease in libido, impotence and sexual dysfunction. However, these sexual disorders are primarily psychiatric in nature and their emergence may just be a result of anxiety caused by taking the medicine or other reasons.
If ever a number of more serious psychiatric side effects are noticed during the treatment of a major depressive disorder, the treatment should be stopped or the dosage must be lessened.
On the other hand, immediate discontinuation of this medicine has adverse effects on the patient, too. The most common of which is mania or hypomania, psychological disorders reflective of unusual mood and thought patterns. Because of this, patients under theraphy of this medicine should be well monitored during the tapering period.
The following symptoms are signs of an overdose: tremor, nervousness, elevated blood pressure, and movement disorder, although the effect of an overdose vary from person to person. A dosage that is fatal to a particular patient may be not enough to give serious damage to another patient. In this regard, when you suspected an overdose, bring yourself immediately to the nearest hospital to get the proper treatment.
Nursing mothers are prohibited to take Prozac since components of medicine is excreted through breastmilk. If an infant ingest it through breastmilk, it may prove to be fatal.
Death has been reported with the use of the drug when patients started experiencing systemic symptoms such as vasculitis or the inflammation of blood vessels, which can impair a number of organs in the body, and a chronic autoimmune disease called systemic lupus erythematosus or SLE, which attacks the cells of the body causing serious tissue damage. These diseases usually occur with patients taking the drug that develops rash. So a simple rash should be treated as a serious matter.
