How Is Lung Cancer Diagnosed and Treated? | Narayana Health
Lung cancer contributes to 6.9% of all new cancer cases and 9.3% of all cancer-related deaths in India. It is the most common cancer type and cause of cancer-related mortality. Smoking is the main cause of this cancer. Both smokers and people who are exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk of developing this cancer. However, this cancer can be treated with therapies, surgery, or drugs.
The cancer of your lungs is referred to as lung cancer. Your lungs are two sponge-like organs in your chest, responsible for taking oxygen when you inhale and releasing carbon dioxide when you exhale.
Lung cancer is classified into two types based on the appearance of cancer cells under the microscope, which are:
Small Cell Lung Cancer – It contributes to 10 to 15% of all lung cancers and occurs mostly in heavy smokers. It can be cured with radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer – It contributes to 80 to 85% of all lung cancers, has various subtypes including large cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma.
These symptoms indicate that you may have lung cancer:
Recurrent respiratory infections such as bronchitis or pneumonia
Annual lung cancer screening that uses low-dose CT scans is recommended for people who are heavy smokers or have quit smoking in the past 15 years. Your doctor may suspect lung cancer if your routine physical exam reveals:
Expanded veins in the neck, arms, or chest
Also, they may perform the following tests to diagnose your condition:
An X-ray may be taken to see if your lungs have any abnormal nodule or mass. A CT scan may be recommended following an X-ray to check for small lesions in your lungs.
If you produce sputum when you cough, looking at the sputum under the microscope can determine whether cancer cells are present.
A sample of cancerous cells is taken from your body to examine them more closely. Your doctor may take the sample in several ways, including:
This procedure is performed under sedation. Your doctor examines abnormal areas of your lungs with a lighted tube that is passed down your throat into your lungs for removing a tiny tissue sample.
General anaesthesia is used during the procedure. Your doctor will make a small incision at the base of your neck and they will insert surgical tools behind your breast bones to take tissue samples.
Using CT or X-ray images, your doctor will insert a needle through your chest wall and into the abnormal lung tissue to collect the sample.
The collected tissue samples will be sent for analysis and the test results will help to determine whether you have lung cancer.
Other Tests to Determine How Far the Cancer Has Spread
If you are diagnosed with lung cancer, your doctor will perform other tests to determine the stage of your cancer so that they can decide the appropriate treatment for you.
Imaging procedures are performed to determine the extent of your cancer and whether it has spread to other parts of your body, including MRI, CT, bone, PET (positron emission tomography) scans.
Your doctor will suggest any of the following lung cancer treatment depending on your health, preferences, and the type and stage of your cancer.
During surgery, your doctor will remove the affected lung and a margin of healthy tissue. Different procedures are performed to remove the affected lung, including:
Lobectomy – Removes the entire lobe of one lung
Wedge Resection – Removes a small section of the lung that contains cancer cells and a margin of healthy tissue
Pneumonectomy – Removes an entire lung
Segmental Resection – Removes a larger portion of the lung that contains cancer cells
It uses high-energy beams to kill cancer cells. Your doctor may recommend this lung treatment before or after surgery if your cancer is advanced or spread to other parts of the body. It is mostly combined with chemotherapy treatment if surgery is not an option for you.
It uses drugs to kill cancer cells. Your doctor might provide you drugs for lung cancer treatment intravenously or orally. A combination of drugs is given for weeks or months, with breaks in between so that you can recover. This treatment of lung cancer might be recommended after surgery to remove any remaining cancer cells, but it can also be performed before surgery to shrink cancer cells, making them easy to remove. It can be performed alone or combined with radiation therapy.
It is otherwise called radiosurgery, an intense radiation treatment that sends many beams of radiation from different angles to cancer cells. This treatment is recommended for people with small lung cancer or whose cancer has spread to other parts of the body. Radiosurgery is completed in one or a few sessions depending on the extent of your cancer.
It is focused on treating specific abnormalities present in the cancer cells, causing them to die. Your cancer cells are tested in a lab to check whether these drugs can help you.
This treatment involves artificial stimulation of the immune system to treat lung cancer. This treatment improves the natural ability of the immune system to fight the disease. It is recommended to treat advanced lung cancer or cancer that has spread to other parts of the body.
For the past 10 years, the survival of lung cancer has increased from 11 months to 5 years (17.8%), which is due to the availability of the latest treatments and medications. If detected earlier, lung cancer cure rate can be increased.
Next Bell's Palsy: Everything that you need to know »
Previous « Cancer Care – Six Lifestyle Changes To Make It Better
Tags: lung cancerlung cancer causeslung cancer diagnosislung cancer preventionlung cancer symptomslung cancer treatment
Genocea to Present Positive Preliminary Clinical Data Evaluating Neoantigen Vaccine GEN-009 in Combination with Checkpoint Inhibitors — Genocea Biosciences
Webcast/conference call scheduled today, July 30th at 8:00 a.m. EDT
Three of five patients achieved separate RECIST responses after GEN-009 administration
GEN-009 elicited antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses in 100% of treated patients
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., July 30, 2020 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Genocea Biosciences, Inc. (NASDAQ: GNCA), a biopharmaceutical company developing next-generation neoantigen immunotherapies, will present initial clinical data today on the first five patients from Part B of the ongoing Phase 1/2a study, which explores the combination of Genocea's neoantigen vaccine, GEN-009 and checkpoint inhibitor-based regimens (CPI) in advanced solid tumors. The webcast and presentation will feature Dr. Maura L. Gillison, MD, PhD, Professor of Medicine, Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology at MD Anderson Cancer Center.
The trial combines GEN-009 with a Standard of Care (SOC) CPI-based regimen approximately four months after the SOC CPI-based regimen is started. The preliminary findings from the first five patients show three achieving independent RECIST responses starting from the first GEN-009 dose. These responses show an acceleration of shrinkage beyond that of the CPI regimen, creating a novel response plot that supports the effect being attributable to the addition of GEN-009. One such patient achieved a complete response ("CR"), while two demonstrated partial responses ("PR"). Overall, two of the first five patients achieved CRs and three experienced PRs.
These results are corroborated by the patients' immune responses. Neoantigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses were detected in 100% of patients, with all patients responding to multiple vaccinated antigens. Early comparison of T cell responses post-checkpoint (pre-vaccination) and post-vaccination show that T cell responses are specific to GEN-009 and not augmented by checkpoint blockade.
"We are incredibly encouraged by these initial results," said Dr. Gillison. "The breadth and magnitude of immune responses validate the complete and partial responses observed in the five patients evaluated. We believe incorporating GEN-009 into standard-of-care immunotherapy regimens may help boost the effectiveness of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy in patients with advanced disease."
"We are very pleased this initial data set continues to validate antigen selection using our proprietary ATLAS™ platform," said Chip Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer, Genocea. "We look forward both to reporting data from approximately ten additional patients this fall and to initiating the clinical trial for the neoantigen cell therapy GEN-011, which should similarly benefit from ATLAS to drive anti-tumor responses through T cells targeting the right neoantigens in checkpoint-refractory patients."
Interested participants may access the call by clicking here. For those who are unable to listen in during the event, a replay of the call will be available here.
A replay of the webcast will be archived for 30 days following the presentation by visiting the "Events and Presentations" tab of the investor relations section of the Genocea website at http://ir.genocea.com.
RN Pediatric ICU (Will consider new grads, up to $11,250 Sign On Bonus) in Minneapolis, MN for Fairview Health Services
Academic / Research (46) Advanced Practice Registered Nurses / Physician Assistants (175) Allied Health (1) Executive (33) General Nursing (2856) Hospitality, Facility, Environmental Support (3) Physicians/Surgeons (1) Type
Contract (0) Fellowship (0) Full Time (276) Locum Tenens (0) On Call (0) PRN (0) Part Time (3) Partnership (0) Per Diem (0) Residency (0) Seasonal (0) Temp to Full Time (0) Level
RN Pediatric ICU (Will consider new grads, up to $11,250 Sign On Bonus)
Licensed Practical Nurse - Days
Critical Care Nurse Residency- Spring 2022- $3,000 Sign-On Bonus Available
Registered Nurse -Part Time
Internal Number: 2021-83845
The Pediatric ICU at the University of Minnesota Masonic Children's Hospital is offering up to a $11,250 sign on bonus.
This position will be working 60 hours every two weeks.
This position will be working on the night shift.
Eligible for benefits including loan reimbursement
MN RN licensure and BLS
https://careercenter.aann.org/jobs/15746215/rn-pediatric-icu-will-consider-new-grads-up-to-11-250-sign-on-bonus
MRI,:Magnetic Resonance Imaging。: 1H、11B、13C、17O、19F、31P。,2080,NMR(NMR Imaging)。,"N" ...
(PDF) What can we see with IVIM MRI?
would mimic a diffusion process and impact diffusion MRI measure- ... called crusher or spoiler gradient pulses placed on each side of the. 180 ... diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging ...
Radiologic and MRI Technologists: Career, Salary and ...
Salary: The median annual wage for magnetic resonance imaging technologists is $74,690. The median annual wage for radiologic technologists is $61,900. Job Outlook: Overall employment of radiologic and MRI technologists is projected to grow 7 percent over the next ten years, faster than the average for all occupations.
· Magnetic resonance imaging of the gastrointestinal tract. Top Magn Reson Imaging 2005;16(1):77–98. Crossref, Medline, Google Scholar; 35 Chung HW, Chen CY, Zimmerman RA, et al. T2-weighted fast MR imaging with trueFISP versus HASTE: comparative efficacy in the evaluation of normal fetal brain maturation. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2000;175(5):1375 ...
A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan is a painless procedure that lasts 15 to 90 minutes, depending on the size of the area being scanned and the number of images being taken. Before the scan. On the day of your MRI scan, you should be able to eat, drink and take any medication as usual, unless you''re advised otherwise.
Major Research Instrumentation Program | NSF National ...
The Major Research Instrumentation Program (MRI) catalyzes new knowledge and discoveries by empowering the Nation''s scientists and engineers with state-of-the-art research instrumentation. The MRI Program enables research-intensive learning environments that promote the development of a diverse workforce and next generation instrumentation, as ...
· Intelligent Rock Vertical Shaft Impact Crusher Local Database System. International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, Vol. 7. No. 6. pp. 57 – 62. (WoS Indexed). Norlia Md Yusof, Nor Ashidi Mat Isa & Harsa Amylia Mat Sakim, 2007. Computer-Aided Detection and Diagnosis for Microcalcification in Mammogram: A Review.
In order to assess whether mission investing is an appropriate tool to achieve programmatic impact, foundation leadership should understand a spectrum of strategic choices. Charts C, D and E show the range of approaches taken by private foundations, the degree of PRI and MRI use, the range of sectors chosen, and the types of asset classes.
· Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a technology often used to investigate the sources of knee problems. 1  It works by creating a magnetic field that causes the water molecules in tissue, bones, and organs to orient themselves in different ways. These orientations are then translated into images we can use for diagnosis.
The impact crusher is a first- and second-stage crusher in one unit, so you can "All impactors are not created equal, and the differences are significant," says ... Magnetism - Questions and Answers in MRI. Measurement sequences for single voxel proton MR spectroscopy. Eur J Radiol 2008; 67:194-201. Moonen CT, von Kienlin M, van Zijl PC, et al ...
Image Classification with the Fisher Vector: Theory and - Hal-Inria. Jun 12, 2013 We also show experimen- tally that FVs can be compressed by a factor of at least 32 with only very limited impact on the classification accuracy.
Breast MRI BI-RADS 3: Impact of Patient-Level Factors on ...
Purpose: A BI-RADS 3 assessment on breast MRI is given when a finding is estimated to have less than 2% chance of breast cancer. Patients in this category are typically recommended to return for a 6-month follow-up MRI. Compliance with this recommendation is low, and we aim to understand which factors are associated with compliance.
UVA Radiology and Medical Imaging | Getting An MRI with ...
· If you are getting an MRI, let your doctor know if you have any tattoos so they can figure out the best way to image that area and ensure you have a good experience. If you need an MRI, contact the UVA Radiology and Medical Imaging department at (434) 982-6600 to schedule a consultation or ask about an upcoming MRI.
Pulse Sequence Design. The pulse sequence design aimed at significantly reducing the duration of diffusion preparation module by changing a previously designed second order motion compensation (M2) diffusion quadra-bipolar pulse (TE prep = 110 ms) to a dual-M1 pulse (TE prep = 67 ms) (Fig. 1), with major B 0 /B 1 inhomogeneity considerations.A shorter diffusion preparation time minimizes the ...
MRI stands for magnetic resonance imaging. It''s a type of scan that uses a magnetic field, radio waves, and a computer to create detailed pictures of the inside of your body. Unlike an X-ray ...
· MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) scans can be used to examine almost every part of the body more closely. Bones, joints, internal organs, blood vessels, the brain, the spinal cord, and the breasts can all be seen closely on these scans, which use radio waves and strong magnetic fields to allow medical professionals to visualize the inside of your body in a great amount of detail.
MRI images allow physicians to diagnose medical conditions such as multiple sclerosis, acoustic neuromas, strokes, traumatic brain injury, and more. However, a frequent concern has revolved around the high-intensity noise produced by modern 3-Tesla (3T) MRI scanners that can reach peak sound pressure levels of 125.7 to 130.7 dB and have an ...
Spontaneous abdominal hemorrhage due to warfarin treatment Demir MV, Demir TÖ, Yaylaci S, Genc AB - CHRISMED J Health Res
Year : 2016 | Volume : 3 | Issue : 4 | Page : 298-300
Spontaneous abdominal hemorrhage due to warfarin treatment
Mustafa Volkan Demir1, Tuba Öztürk Demir2, Selcuk Yaylaci3, Ahmet Bilal Genc4
2 Department of Emergency Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Inonu University, Malatya, Turkey
3 Department of Internal Medicine, Rize Findikli State Hospital, Rize, Turkey
4 Department of Internal Medicine Clinic, Sakarya Research and Education Hospital, Sakarya, Turkey
Dr. Mustafa Volkan Demir
Department of Internal Medicine, Malatya Government Hospital, Malatya
DOI: 10.4103/2348-3334.190571
Warfarin is an anticoagulant used in the prevention of thromboembolism. Common clinical indications for warfarin use are atrial fibrillation, artificial heart valves, deep venous thrombosis. Common side effect of warfarin is hemorrhage. Intra-peritoneal hemorrhage is one of the complications, usually following trauma. We report spontaneous intra-abdominal hemorrhage secondary to warfarin therapy. A 79 year-old male patient was admitted to emergency clinic with the complaints of one day duration of abdominal pain. There was no history of trauma. He had been on warfarin for the prophylaxis of atrial fibrillation.The diagnosis of the spontaneous intra-abdominal bleeding secondary to warfarin was made and the patient was admitted internal medicine inpatient clinic.This case provides a learning lesson to the physicians to consider this rare but significant complication of warfarin in the differential diagnosis of all the cases of abdominal pain in patients who are on warfarin therapy.
Keywords: Abdominal hemorrhage, abdominal pain, warfarin
Demir MV, Demir TÖ, Yaylaci S, Genc AB. Spontaneous abdominal hemorrhage due to warfarin treatment. CHRISMED J Health Res 2016;3:298-300
Demir MV, Demir TÖ, Yaylaci S, Genc AB. Spontaneous abdominal hemorrhage due to warfarin treatment. CHRISMED J Health Res [serial online] 2016 [cited 2021 Apr 17];3:298-300. Available from: https://www.cjhr.org/text.asp?2016/3/4/298/190571
Warfarin is an anticoagulant used in the prevention of thrombosis. Warfarin decreases blood coagulation by inhibiting Vitamin K epoxide reductase, an enzyme that recycles oxidized Vitamin K1 to its reduced form after it has participated in the carboxylation of several blood coagulation proteins, prothrombin, and factor VII.[1] Common clinical indications for warfarin use are atrial fibrillation, artificial heart valves, and deep venous thrombosis.[2] Common side effect of warfarin is hemorrhage. Intraperitoneal hemorrhage is one of the complications, usually following trauma. There are only very few reported cases of the spontaneous hemoperitoneum in the literature.[3] Spontaneous onset of the intra-abdominal hemorrhage due to warfarin therapy is also exceptional. We report spontaneous intra-abdominal hemorrhage secondary to warfarin therapy.
A 79-year-old male patient was admitted to emergency clinic with the complaints of 1-day duration of abdominal pain. The pain was constant and dull in the periumbilical region, which later became localized in the right abdomen. There was no history of trauma. He had been on warfarin for the prophylaxis of atrial fibrillation. He used to take pantoprazole, metoprolol, ramipril as his regular medications. Blood pressure was 130/80 mmHg, heart rate was 110/min, and temperature was 36.8°C in the admission. There was no hematoma in the abdominal wall. There were guarding in the right iliac fossa. The rectal examination was normal. The urine analysis was normal. The blood analysis showed hemoglobin of 7.9 g/dl with reduced hematocrit of 23.5%, white blood cells of 14.7 × 109/l, and international normalized ratio (INR) of 6.12. Ten centimeters hematoma in the right psoas muscle and 4 cm hematoma in the right mesenteric area were shown with the abdominal ultrasonography. The ultrasonographic findings were compatible with acute hematoma. The diagnosis of the spontaneous intra-abdominal bleeding secondary to warfarin was made, and the patient was admitted internal medicine inpatient clinic. Warfarin treatment was stopped. Three units of fresh frozen plasma and 3 units of erythrocyte suspension were transfused. An amount of 20 mg Vitamin K was given intravenously. Complete blood count, INR, blood tension, and rate were monitored. There was no sign of active bleeding. The blood analysis showed hemoglobin of 10 g/dl, hematocrit of 30.5%, white blood cells of 9.78 × 109/l, and INR of 1.26 on the 2nd day of admission. Warfarin treatment was started on the 3rd day of admission. At 6 days follow-up visit in the clinic, the patient was doing well without any complaints and complications. The INR was 2.3 on the 6th day of admission.
Warfarin is associated with the serious adverse effects such as the hematuria, soft tissue bleeding and hematoma, intracerebral hemorrhage, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, and abdominal hemorrhage.[4] Abdominal hemorrhage was occurred in our case. In patients treated by oral anticoagulants and suffering from abdominal pain, spontaneous intra-abdominal hemorrhage should be systematically searched. Diagnosis can be achieved using ultrasound (like the present case). Ultrasonographic examination is interesting because it is cost-effective, easily, immediately accessible, and with high levels of sensitivity. The more frequently computed tomography is also performed because it is a better imaging method compared to ultrasound in assessing the location and size of hematomas. We did not need to perform computed tomography.
The HAS-BLED (acronym of the major factors associated with bleeding risk in patients with atrial fibrillation receiving oral anticoagulation) score has been previously reported that the risk of major bleeding among patients with atrial fibrillation was based on the presence of hypertension, abnormal liver or renal function, history of stroke or bleeding, labile INRs, concomitant use of drugs that promote bleeding or excess alcohol use and elderly age (>65 years),[5] Our patient's elderly age, hypertension, and concomitant drug using were risk factors. Consequently, before the prescription of an anticoagulant agent, it is important to assess the risk of bleeding using the HAS-BLED score.
The most important determinant of the warfarin-induced hemorrhage is the intensity of therapy.[6] Bleeding is more likely to occur in the patients with the more intense therapeutic range (INR between 2.5 and 3.5) than in the less intense therapeutic range of warfarin (INR between 2 and 3).[7] Warfarin therapy is associated with a variety of hemorrhagic complications that are usually associated with inadequate control of anticoagulation. Our patient's INR was 6.2. Although it has been shown that there is an increase in the risk of major bleeding as the INR increases, major bleeding can occur at therapeutic levels.
Hemorrhage is a major complication in the early phase of the warfarin therapy according to the most studies. Fihn et al. evaluated 928 patients that were on chronic anticoagulation with warfarin in a retrospective cohort study. They found an incidence of the first bleeding episodes of 17.3 events/100 patient-years for minor bleeding, 7.5 events/100 patient-years for serious bleeding, 1.1 events/100 patient-years for life-threatening bleeding, and 0.2 events/100 patient-years for fatal bleeding.[8]
Spontaneous bleeding is one of the well reported and most common adverse effects of warfarin. The first step in the therapy is to stop the administration of anticoagulant drugs and correct the patient's coagulation parameters with fresh-frozen plasma and Vitamin K as in our case.
The CHADS2 score can help physicians estimate stroke risk in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and determine which antithrombotic therapy is most appropriate. Congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥75 years, diabetes, and stroke/transient ischemic attack history were the risk factors in the CHADS2 score.[9] Elderly age, hypertension, transient ischemic attack history were the risk factors in our case. Our patient's thrombosis risk and re-bleeding risk calculated with CHADS2 score and HAS-BLED score. Our patient was borderline in terms of risk of CHADS2 and HAS-BLED. We decided to initiate warfarin treatment early. This management could be seemed appropriate because of mortality has been associated with early initiation of warfarin after bleeding. Some authors have proposed to withdraw anticoagulant treatment during a short period in only situations involving a high risk of thrombosis. In patients at low risk to thrombosis and at high risk of bleeding a later resumption of anticoagulants might be safer.
This case provides a learning lesson to the physicians to consider this rare but significant complication of warfarin in the differential diagnosis of all the cases of abdominal pain in patients who are on warfarin therapy. We recommend the use of the radiological investigations such as ultrasound in these cases to achieve diagnosis. It is recommended to assess the risk of thrombosis and bleeding using CHADS2 score and HAS-BLED score. The patients and their relatives should be informed about the potential complication of warfarin, and the doses should be explained in detail.
Holbrook AM, Pereira JA, Labiris R, McDonald H, Douketis JD, Crowther M, et al . Systematic overview of warfarin and its drug and food interactions. Arch Intern Med 2005;165:1095-106.
Hirsh J, Fuster V, Ansell J, Halperin JL; American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Foundation. American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Foundation guide to warfarin therapy. J Am Coll Cardiol 2003;41:1633-52.
Schattner A, Kozack N, Friedman J. Idiopathic spontaneous hemoperitoneum. Arch Intern Med 2001;161:1009-10.
Morgan RJ, Bristol JB. Unusual findings in a patient taking warfarin. Postgrad Med J 1999;75:299-300.
Singer DE, Albers GW, Dalen JE, Go AS, Halperin JL, Manning WJ. Antithrombotic therapy in atrial fibrillation: The seventh ACCP conference on antithrombotic and thrombolytic therapy. Chest 2004;126 3 Suppl: 429S-56S.
Breen AB, Vaskinn TE, Reikvam A, Skovlund E, Lislevand H, Madsen S. Warfarin treatment and bleeding. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen 2003;123:1835-7.
Fihn SD, McDonell M, Martin D, Henikoff J, Vermes D, Kent D, et al. Risk factors for complications of chronic anticoagulation. A multicenter study. Warfarin optimized outpatient follow-up study group. Ann Intern Med 1993;118:511-20.
Yarmohammadi H, Varr BC, Puwanant S, Lieber E, Williams SJ, Klostermann T, et al. Role of CHADS2 score in evaluation of thromboembolic risk and mortality in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing direct current cardioversion (from the ACUTE Trial Substudy). Am J Cardiol 2012;110:222-6.
ᐈ Buy Alpha Normiks 12s 200 mg coated tablets Online • RxEli
Alfasigma S.p.A./Alfa Wassermann (Italy)
View cart "Amoksiklav 156.25 mg / 5 ml 100 ml powder for oral suspension" has been added to your cart.
Brands:	Alfasigma S.p.A./Alfa Wassermann (Italy)
Alpha Normiks 12s 200 mg coated tablets quantity
5a14ebc51577
Brands:: Alfasigma S.p.A./Alfa Wassermann (Italy)
of Alf Normix
name Rifaximin Lekarstvennaya
the Tablet form, coated, 200 mg
active agent – rifaximin (α a polymorphic form) 200 mg,
excipients: starch sodium glycollate, glycerin tristearate, silicon dioxide colloidal, talc, cellulose microcrystalline
cover: Opadry OY-S-34907 (hydroksipropilmetiltsellyuloza, titan E 171 dioxide, sodium edetat, propylene glycol, ferrous oxide red E 172).
Round biconvex tablets of pink color, coated
Antidiarrheal, intestinal anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial drugs. Antibacterial drugs.
The code of automatic telephone exchange A07AA11
Pharmacokinetics Rifaximin properties is badly soaked up at intake (less than 1%) and possesses intra intestinal action. In a gleam of intestines very high concentration of drug (concentration of an antibiotic in Calais reaches 4000-8000 mkg/kg in 3 days after prescribing of drug in a dose of 800 mg/days), which considerably exceeds the minimum overwhelming concentration for the known enteropathogenic microorganisms is created.
Drug is not found in blood plasma after reception of therapeutic doses (a detection limit less than 0.5-2 ng/ml) or it is found in extremely small concentration (less than 10 ng/ml) both in healthy volunteers, and in persons with a canker mucous intestines obolochkiya (ulcer colitis, Crohn's disease).
In urine no more than 0.4% of the dose of a rifaximin accepted inside are found.
Alf Normix's pharmacodynamics – an antibiotic of a broad spectrum of activity, is to semi-synthetic derivatives of SV Rifamycinum. It is irreversible contacts a beta subunit of enzyme of bacteria of a DNA-dependent RNA polymerase and, therefore, it is irreversible inhibits synthesis of RNA and proteins of bacteria. As a result of irreversible linking with Alf Normix's enzyme shows bactericidal properties concerning sensitive bacteria.
The spectrum of action of Alf Normix includes the majority of the gram-negative and gram-positive, aerobic and anaerobic bacteria causing gastrointestinal infections including diarrhea of travelers.
GramotritsatelnyeAerobnye: Salmonella spp., Shigella spp., Escherichia coli, enteropathogenic strains, Proteus spp., Campylobacter app., Pseudomonas spp., Yersinia spp., Enterobacter spp., Klebsiella spp., Helicobacter pylori.
Anaerobe bacterias: Bacteroides spp., including Bacteroides fragilis, Fusobacterium nucleatum. GrampolozhitelnyeAeroba: Streptococcus spp., Enterococcus spp., including Enterococcus fecalis, Staphylococcus spp.
Anaerobe bacterias: Clostridium spp., including Clostridium difficile and Clostridium perfrigens, Peptostreptococcus spp.
Drug does not break balance of normal saprophytic microflora of a kishechik.
The wide antibacterial range of a rifaximin promotes decrease in pathogenic intestinal bacterial loading which causes some morbid conditions. Drug reduces:
–	education by bacteria of ammonia and other toxic connections which in case of the serious illness of a liver which is followed by disturbance of process of a detoxification participate in pathogenesis and symptomatology of hepatic encephalopathy the increased proliferation of bacteria at a syndrome of excess growth of microorganisms in intestines,
–	presence at diverticulums of a colon of bacteria which can participate in inflammation around a diverticular bag and, perhaps, play a key role in development of symptoms and complications of a diverticular disease,
–	antigen challenge which in the presence of genetically caused defects in immunoregulation mucous and/or in protective function, can initiate or constantly support chronic inflammation of intestines,
–	risk of infectious complications at colorectal surgical interventions.
–	the gastrointestinal infections caused by the bacteria sensitive to a rifaximin including acute gastrointestinal infections, diarrhea of travelers, a syndrome of excess growth of microorganisms in intestines, hepatic encephalopathy, an uncomplicated divertikulezny disease of a colon and chronic inflammation of intestines,
–	prevention of infectious complications at colorectal surgical interventions.
Adults and children are more senior than 12 years: from 200 mg of the table each 8 hours – up to 400 mg each 8-12 hours (there correspond 600-1200 mg of a rifaximin a day).
Children of 6-12 years: from 200 mg each 8-12 hours up to 400 mg each 12 hours (there correspond 400-800 mg of a rifaximin a day).
Prevention of infectious complications in before – and the post-operational period:
Adults and children are more senior than 12 years: on 400 mg each 12 hours.
Children of 6-12 years: on 200 – 400 mg each 12 hours.
In complex treatment of a giperammoniyemiya
the Adults and children are more senior than 12 years: on 400 mg each 8 hours.
Children of 6-12 years: on 200-300 mg each 8 hours.
Doses and frequency rate of reception can be changed on doctor's orders. Duration of treatment should not exceed 7-10 days if other is not offered the doctor.
–	dizziness, a headache
–	nausea, vomiting, an abdominal pain, diarrhea, a meteorism, a loss of appetite
–	allergic reactions as urtikarny skin rash, allergichesiky
Contraindication dermatitis
–	the increased individual sensitivity to any of drug components and also to other antibiotics of group of Rifamycinums
–	intestinal impassability
–	ulcer colitis
Due to extremely small absorbability from digestive tract drug at the system level does not interact with other medicines.
instructions Period of Pregnancy and Lactation
At the moment not enough clinical data on use of a rifaximin for pregnant women and the feeding women.
At emergency drug can be appointed during pregnancy and a lactation under stringent control of the doctor.
Does not affect ability to driving of the car and to control of cars and mechanisms.
At the moment it was not reported about drug overdose cases.
At accidental overdose – symptomatic treatment.
On 12 tablets, coated, in PVC / the blister Is scarlet. On 1 blister together with the instruction for use in a pack cardboard.
Plans for new mental health unit will close Whitchurch hospital - Wales Online
Plans for new mental health unit will close Whitchurch hospital
WHITCHURCH Hospital will close within four years after health chiefs backed a plan to transfer inpatient mental health services to Llandough.
Part of the Whitchurch site will be sold off but the majority will continue to be a base for health and well-being services.
It is understood the site could house a locality health centre, similar to the one being developed at Cardiff Royal Infirmary, to serve the people of north Cardiff. And some of the land could be used to allow neighbouring Velindre Cancer Centre to expand.
In the meantime a new inpatient mental health unit will be built at Llandough Hospital to provide all inpatient services for patients in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan.
The closure of Whitchurch Hospital and the centralisation of inpatient care at Llandough Hospital, which will be subject to public consultation, comes as Cardiff and Vale University Health Board wants to develop a "recovery model" for mental health services.
The majority of care will be provided in the community.
Katie Norton, Cardiff and Vale University Health Board's director of primary, community and mental health services, said: "The recovery model is not a new concept but one we recognised that we've got a lot further to go. We have to support people to move on with their lives, rather than keeping hold of them in hospital – we need to strengthen community services and work with primary care."
And Dr John Lewis, divisional director of mental health services, said: "Under the traditional way of working we were very demand orientated and reactive – when people became ill, we responded and that led to the person being admitted to hospital.
"There has been a big reliance on inpatient care.
"We want to move to a more proactive way of working, where people's needs are assessed and we can work to maximise their potential to stay well in the community."
The new strategy for mental health comes after the Echo revealed plans for a replacement Whitchurch Hospital had been shelved in March.
The £80m of Assembly Government funds earmarked for the hospital's redevelopment is understood to be available for the development of the new unit at Llandough Hospital, which would be completed in three to four years.
A review of mental health services in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan said: "The review steering group are of the clear view that the facilities and ward environments in Whitchurch Hospital are no longer fit for purpose to support the delivery of modern health services."
Ms Norton added: "We don't think it is the right model as it would result in an institutional model of care.
"We still need inpatient services but the issue is how to provide it in a non-institutional setting. Service users and carers have been very supportive of the idea of a single unit and the steering group's preferred option is for the unit to be at Llandough Hospital."
But service users and carers have raised concerns about the lack of facilities currently available on the Llandough site.
Cardiff and Vale University Health Board's plans are to transform Llandough Hospital into a centre for recovery and rehabilitation. It will also be home to the relocated rehabilitation services previously provided at Rookwood Hospital and elderly mental illness services.
Jonathan Morgan, AM for Cardiff North, said: "I can see the sense in having an inpatient mental health facility co-located with a physical health facility. The only place for that to happen is Llandough.
"The key issue for me is to make sure that we have a good mix of health service provision on the Whitchurch site.
"This site has been occupied by the health service for so many years that it deserves to be retained for use by the health service.
"But it would be a disgrace if any land is sold off for housing to fund the provision of new health services at Whitchurch. This money has to come from the Assembly Government"
Phil Williams, chief officer or Cardiff and Vale of Glamorgan Community Health Council, said: "We have been involved in the discussions with the health board for some time in respect of Whitchurch. Thanks to our efforts, the decision will go to public consultation.
"There are pros to putting mental health services on the same site as other medical services, but the downside is the facilities are not as good as at Llandough as Whitchurch because there is no local community and there are transport issues."
Body Care » Health » Complaints »
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) occurs when the median nerve, which runs from the forearm into the hand, becomes squeezed at the wrist. The median nerve controls the muscles in the hand and also controls the sensation on the palm side of the thumb, index, middle, and part of the ring finger. The carpal tunnel is a small 'tunnel' created by a circular configuration of the wrist bones and a ligament. Tendons, nerves, veins, and arteries pass through this small tunnel but the median nerve is the most superficial structure in this tunnel. When the hand is overworked (such as from long periods of typing, mouse use, or knitting), the tendons are irritated and swell. This increases the pressure in the carpal tunnel and compresses the median nerve against walls of the tunnel.
The early symptoms of a lightly compressed median nerve are only sensory - tingling, pins and needles, numbness, and/or mild decrease in sensation in the fingers. Late stage median nerve compression results in exaggerated sensory symptoms along with decreased strength and atrophy of median nerve innervated muscles in the hand.
For many people, the pressure in the carpal tunnel may be adjusted and symptoms relieved by the following methods; as with any medical issue, consult your doctor to determine which approach is best for you:
Work Positioning - If the wrist is strained from poor wrist positioning while typing or using the mouse, consider using an ergonomic keyboard and wrist pads to maintain the wrist in a position; you may also want to try wrist splints, which position the wrist in proper alignment.
Sleeping Position - Many people sleep with their both wrists curled forward under their chin. Often people wake up in the middle of the night from pain or in both hands. Try simply 'shaking it out.' If more severe, use a splint to position the wrist so the carpal tunnel will not be compressed during sleep.
Exercise - Some people develop CTS because of overuse of the wrist and hands. When the carpal tunnel symptoms have abated, exercise and stretching can condition your forearm muscles allowing you to work harder without as much strain and swelling. A Certified Hand Therapist (CHT) or Occupational or Physical Therapist can develop a customized exercise regiment.
Drugs - In some cases, your doctor may be able to prescribe medicines to decrease swelling from irritated tendons or water retention in the extremities.
Surgery - If you experience CTS symptoms for over six months with severe sensory symptoms
that will not 'shake off' and/or demonstrating decrease hand strength, dexterity and visible atrophy of median nerve innervated muscles in the hand, consult a Board Certified Hand Surgeon or Orthopedic Surgeon to determine whether surgery is appropriate.
How can patients get assistance under EPAP? - PHE
PHE Home > Preparedness > Planning > EPAP > How can patients get assistance under EPAP?
The Emergency Prescription Assistance Program (EPAP) was created to help people who don't have health insurance continue to use certain prescription drugs, specific medical supplies, vaccines and certain medical equipment, including canes, walkers, wheelchairs and crutches. If you have health insurance, such as an individual health insurance policy or employer-sponsored coverage, public insurance, such as Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party coverage, you are not eligible to receive assistance under EPAP.
Patients will receive an initial 30-day supply of most prescription drugs or specific medical supplies . Prescriptions may be renewed every 30 days for as long as EPAP is active. If you rely on medical supplies, you can get additional supplies every 30 days for as long as EPAP is active. DME is typically only provided once, but if it is lost or stolen after it has been issued, it may be replaced. Vaccines are typically a single course of treatment and do not need to be refilled.
Confirm that EPAP has been activated in your area: Claims can only be processed during the time and at the location specified in the EPAP activation. To find out whether EPAP has been activated at this time in your area, check the list of current EPAP activations. Please note that the areas are subject to change.
Verify your eligibility for assistance: EPAP coverage is only available to individuals who do not have other drug and/or DME coverage. Claims submitted will the checked for possible Other Payer coverage. If Other Payer coverage exists, claims are not eligible for payment under EPAP.
Find out if your prescription and/or DME is covered under EPAP: EPAP only covers certain prescription drugs, specific medical supplies, vaccines and limited durable medical equipment (DME). Your healthcare provider or pharmacy will be able to tell you if your items are covered. You can learn what types of items are covered by consulting EPAP Formulary. To learn if your medication or DME is covered, call Express Scripts at 855-793-7470. Please note that enrolled pharmacies must dispense the generic form of medication unless otherwise indicated as Brand Medically Necessary (BMN) or Dispense as Written (DAW) by your licensed health care practitioner. The formulary follows the Medicare Part D guidelines and designated durable medical equipment. However, it excludes the following items, regardless of whether covered under Medicare Part D: 1) cosmetic agents; 2) contraceptives; 3) fertility agents; 4) erectile dysfunction drugs and products; 5) weight loss medications; and 6) over-the-counter (OTC) medications.
Locate an enrolled pharmacy: Claims can only be processed by a pharmacy that has enrolled in EPAP. Check our list of enrolled pharmacies to find a location near you.
Provide the pharmacy with your medical information: In order to receive prescription drugs, you must have one at least of the following 1) a new prescription from a licensed health care practitioner; 2) a current prescription bottle; 3) a prescription phoned in by a licensed health care practitioner; or 4) proof of an existing prescription. In order to receive replacement DME, certain medical supplies, or vaccines that do not routinely require a prescription, please have your healthcare provider contact the pharmacy.
If you have questions regarding access to care under EPAP during a disaster, contact us at 855-793-7470.
Both strength training and eating a meal rich in amino acids result in an increase in protein synthesis.
The increase in protein synthesis in both cases is dependent on a protein kinase called the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR).
Strength training and amino acid ingestion (eating) activate mTOR in different ways. As a result, when both are done together, the effects add up and result in a larger effect than either strength training or eating alone.
Proteins that result in a rapid and prolonged (~1 hour) increase in the amino acid leucine in the blood maximize the activation of mTOR and the increase in muscle protein synthesis and strength.
A simple nutritional strategy is presented that can be used to maximize the adaptive response to strength training.
Introduction
For thousands of years, we have understood the basic principle needed to overload muscle in order to increase strength. The earliest example of this principle was Milo of Croton. Milo was a farmer and Olympic wrestler. At the start of each Olympic training cycle he would select a calf from his herd and perform his morning exercises with the calf draped across his shoulders. As the calf grew so did Milo’s strength. When the Olympics arrived, he is said to have carried the then fully-grown bull on his shoulders into the stadium, thrown it to the ground and ate it. This fable is an illustration that what we know today has changed very little in 2,500 years: In order to increase strength we need to perform resistance exercise and then consume high-quality protein.
Over the last 2,000 years, a great deal of progress has been made in understanding how strength training and nutrition work together to increase muscle mass and strength. This Sports Science Exchange article will review that information and illustrate how to use it to improve the adaptation to training.
Molecular Response to Training
In every scientific model of muscle hypertrophy, from mice to rats, rabbits, chickens and, finally, to humans, the first response to a strength training session is an increase in protein synthesis. If the increase in protein synthesis is more than the increase in muscle breakdown, the muscle will get larger and stronger over time.
Over the past decade molecular exercise physiologists have shown that the single most important regulator of this training-induced increase in muscle protein synthesis is the mammalian target of rapamycin, or mTOR. If humans are given the immunosuppressant rapamycin (blocks mTOR) before they perform their strength training, there is no increase in protein synthesis (Drummond et al., 2009). This demonstrates that mTOR is required for the increase in muscle protein synthesis after resistance exercise. In support of the importance of mTOR, the phosphorylation of the protein S6K (a marker of mTOR activity) 30 min after strength training is the best predictor of the increase in muscle mass and strength that an athlete will achieve (Figure 1, Terzis et al., 2008). Even though there is more to muscle growth than activating mTOR, coaches and athletes should be trying to increase mTOR activity as much as possible.
If activating mTOR is a key to increasing strength, then understanding how to maximally activate this enzyme is important to optimize our training. To do this, understanding what turns mTOR on and off is paramount, and from a number of excellent scientific studies, this is now becoming clearer.
At first, it was believed that the only way to increase mTOR activity was through growth factors like insulin growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Two results supported this: 1) insulin and IGF-1 both increased mTOR activity and this resulted in an increase in protein synthesis (Coleman et al., 1995), and 2) following resistance exercise there was an increase in the production of IGF-1 in the muscle (McKoy et al., 1999). From this data, it was believed that resistance exercise increased the production of IGF-1 and this led to the increase in protein synthesis. We now know that this was incorrect and that mTOR is activated directly by the mechanical load on the muscle and the IGF-1 plays a very small role in load-induced increase in muscle mass (Philp et al., 2011).
But the load on a muscle is not the only thing that leads to the activation of mTOR. While it is true that the heavier weight a person lifts, the greater the activation of mTOR (Baar & Esser, 1999; Terzis et al., 2010), it is now becoming clear that there is something more. When a lighter weight is lifted and the blood flow to the muscle is restricted (Fujita et al., 2007) or any weight is lifted to failure (Mitchell et al., 2012), mTOR activity and protein synthesis are turned on. Therefore, it is now believed that the activity of mTOR is maximally increased by strength exercises performed to failure. There are two types of failure in strength training. Positive failure, when an athlete can no longer lift a weight, and negative failure, when an athlete’s coach lifts the weight for them to lower and they can no longer slow the weight as it comes down.
Nutrition to Maximize Training
But increasing mTOR activity by lifting heavy weights is not enough. If an athlete trains in a fasted state, the increase in mTOR activity and protein synthesis is not optimal. In fact, in the fasted state, protein balance (protein synthesis minus protein degradation) remains negative after training (Figure 2). In order to maximally activate mTOR and protein synthesis and shift the muscle into a positive protein balance we need not only mechanical activation but the ingestion of amino acids as well.
The amino acids serve two purposes in muscle. The first is to supply the building blocks necessary to synthesize new proteins and the second is to provide a signaling trigger that activates mTOR.
Even though all of the amino acids are needed to synthesize new proteins, only one is needed to turn on mTOR. This unique amino acid is the branched chain amino acid leucine. The reason that leucine is so important is that muscle cells contain a sensor to detect the levels of leucine. This amino acid sensor activates mTOR through a collection of transport proteins called the Rag proteins, which bring mTOR together with its activator Rheb. Therefore, when leucine enters muscle cells it turns on the Rag proteins and moves mTOR to Rheb, and this in turn activates mTOR, increases protein synthesis and makes larger, stronger muscles.
If leucine plays an important role in activating mTOR, then nutritionally it becomes important to understand how different protein sources affect the amount of leucine delivered to muscle. Work from Stuart Phillips’ laboratory (Tang et al., 2009) has shown that more leucine is released into the blood and that the leucine concentration stays higher for a longer time period when an athlete consumes whey compared to either soy or casein (Figure 3).
As would be expected from what has been discussed so far, the higher leucine levels resulted in a significantly greater increase in muscle protein synthesis both at rest and after resistance exercise (Figure 4). Most importantly, the researchers followed these individuals throughout training and have now shown that the athletes that drank a whey supplement right after they trained also had the greatest increase in muscle mass (Tang et al., 2009).
Leucine cannot get into muscle without a transporter. The primary leucine transporter in skeletal muscle is the L-type amino acid transporter LAT1 (also known as SLC7A5). In order to increase mTOR activity and protein synthesis LAT1 needs to increase in the plasma membrane. The current evidence suggests that immediately following strength training, LAT1 increases in the membrane for a short period of time (~90 min). However, LAT1 mRNA stays high for at least 24 h (Churchward-Venne et al., 2012; and Baar et al., unpublished). These facts could explain two things, 1) why taking amino acids immediately following resistance exercise is the most effective way to increase muscle protein synthesis (more LAT1 on the membrane to take up leucine, Esmarck et al., 2001), and 2) why eating amino acid-rich foods has a greater effect on muscle protein synthesis for 24 h after a heavy weights session (more mRNA that can be used to increase LAT1 and leucine uptake, Burd et al., 2011).
Science-based Recommendations for Training to optimize mTOR Activation and Strength Gains
Taking all of this information together, a simple plan can be devised to increase mTOR activity, protein synthesis and muscle strength (Figure 5).
To maximize strength gains, athletes should lift heavy weights to failure. This can be done using one set or more of each exercise. If using one set, the athlete needs to be lifting 100% of their 8RM until failure. Each additional set adds little to the final increase in strength since for each extra set the percent of 8RM decreases and failure is achieved only on the final set. This is why the strength gains achieved using one set are equal to that of multiple sets (Mitchell et al., 2012).
Immediately following resistance exercise, consume a rapidly absorbable protein source rich in the amino acid leucine. Examples of these types of food are dairy products (specifically the whey component) and eggs. Getting leucine into the blood quickly takes advantage of the higher LAT1 content at the membrane following resistance exercise.
In the 24 h after resistance exercise, eat meals containing 20 g of leucine-rich amino acids first thing in the morning and then every 3-4 h throughout the day. Twenty grams of amino acids maximally activates protein synthesis in young people (Moore et al., 2009).
Consume 30-40 g of leucine-rich protein right before bed. Eating right before bed improves protein synthesis while sleeping and maintains a positive protein balance overnight (Res et al., 2012).
The above program is likely to maximize strength gains. This article has focused on the role of mTOR in gaining strength, but this is not the only important factor. Muscle mass is also influenced by the growth inhibitor myostatin, the transcriptional regulator Notch and the number of satellite cells in the muscle. However, how these factors affect muscle size and strength and whether they are affected by nutrition is less certain.
References
Baar K & Esser K. (1999). Phosphorylation of p70(S6k) correlates with increased skeletal muscle mass following resistance exercise. Am J Physiol 276, C120-127.
Burd NA, West DW, Moore DR, Atherton PJ, Staples AW, Prior T, Tang JE, Rennie MJ, Baker SK & Phillips SM. (2011). Enhanced amino acid sensitivity of myofibrillar protein synthesis persists for up to 24 h after resistance exercise in young men. The Journal of nutrition 141, 568-573.
Churchward-Venne TA, Burd NA, Mitchell CJ, West DW, Philp A, Marcotte GR, Baker SK, Baar K & Phillips SM. (2012). Supplementation of a suboptimal protein dose with leucine or essential amino acids: effects on myofibrillar protein synthesis at rest and following resistance exercise in men. The Journal of physiology.
Coleman ME, DeMayo F, Yin KC, Lee HM, Geske R, Montgomery C & Schwartz RJ. (1995). Myogenic vector expression of insulin-like growth factor I stimulates muscle cell differentiation and myofiber hypertrophy in transgenic mice. J Biol Chem 270, 12109-12116.
Drummond MJ, Fry CS, Glynn EL, Dreyer HC, Dhanani S, Timmerman KL, Volpi E & Rasmussen BB. (2009). Rapamycin administration in humans blocks the contraction-induced increase in skeletal muscle protein synthesis. J Physiol 587, 1535-1546.
Esmarck B, Andersen JL, Olsen S, Richter EA, Mizuno M & Kjaer M. (2001). Timing of postexercise protein intake is important for muscle hypertrophy with resistance training in elderly humans. J Physiol 535, 301-311.
Fujita S, Abe T, Drummond MJ, Cadenas JG, Dreyer HC, Sato Y, Volpi E & Rasmussen BB. (2007). Blood flow restriction during low-intensity resistance exercise increases S6K1 phosphorylation and muscle protein synthesis. J Appl Physiol (1985) 103, 903-910.
McKoy G, Ashley W, Mander J, Yang SY, Williams N, Russell B & Goldspink G. (1999). Expression of insulin growth factor-1 splice variants and structural genes in rabbit skeletal muscle induced by stretch and stimulation. J Physiol 516 ( Pt 2), 583-592.
Mitchell CJ, Churchward-Venne TA, West DW, Burd NA, Breen L, Baker SK & Phillips SM. (2012). Resistance exercise load does not determine training-mediated hypertrophic gains in young men. J Appl Physiol (1985) 113, 71-77.
Moore DR, Robinson MJ, Fry JL, Tang JE, Glover EI, Wilkinson SB, Prior T, Tarnopolsky MA & Phillips SM. (2009). Ingested protein dose response of muscle and albumin protein synthesis after resistance exercise in young men. The American journal of clinical nutrition 89, 161-168.
Philp A, Hamilton DL & Baar K. (2011). Signals mediating skeletal muscle remodeling by resistance exercise: PI3-kinase independent activation of mTORC1. J Appl Physiol (1985) 110, 561-568.
Res PT, Groen B, Pennings B, Beelen M, Wallis GA, Gijsen AP, Senden JM & van Loon LJ. (2012). Protein Ingestion Prior To Sleep Improves Post-Exercise Overnight Recovery. Medicine and science in sports and exercise.
Tang JE, Moore DR, Kujbida GW, Tarnopolsky MA & Phillips SM. (2009). Ingestion of whey hydrolysate, casein, or soy protein isolate: effects on mixed muscle protein synthesis at rest and following resistance exercise in young men. J Appl Physiol (1985) 107, 987-992.
Terzis G, Georgiadis G, Stratakos G, Vogiatzis I, Kavouras S, Manta P, Mascher H & Blomstrand E. (2008). Resistance exercise-induced increase in muscle mass correlates with p70S6 kinase phosphorylation in human subjects. Eur J Appl Physiol 102, 145-152.
Terzis G, Spengos K, Mascher H, Georgiadis G, Manta P & Blomstrand E. (2010). The degree of p70 S6k and S6 phosphorylation in human skeletal muscle in response to resistance exercise depends on the training volume. European journal of applied physiology 110, 835-843.
Tipton KD, Gurkin BE, Matin S & Wolfe RR. (1999). Nonessential amino acids are not necessary to stimulate net muscle protein synthesis in healthy volunteers. J Nutr Biochem 10, 89-95.
Download
Share
Recommended Reading
July 2018
SSE #181 The "Critical Power" Concept and High-Intensity Exercise Performance
August 2018
SSE #184 The Dependence on Carbohydrate Fueling for Successful High-Intensity, Endurance Performance
December 2018
SSE #187 MINIMIZING INJURY AND MAXIMIZING RETURN TO PLAY RESEARCH: Lessons from Engineered Ligaments
GSSI Newsletter Sign up
Get the latest & greatest
All fields are required
First Name
Click to add
(?)
Last Name
Click to add
(?)
Company/Affiliation
Click to add
(?)
Email
Click to add
(?)
COPYRIGHT © 2022 GSSI
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Terms & Conditions
Accessibility Statement
Gatorade Performance Partner
Information herein is intended for professional audiences, including scientists, coaches, medical professionals, athletic trainers, nutritionists, dietitians and other sports health professionals who have a fundamental understanding of human physiology.
