The combination of the PD-1/VEGF bispecific antibody AK112 and the PARP inhibitor olaparib is under investigation as a potential treatment option for patients with BRCA1/2 germline wild-type, platinum-sensitive, recurrent ovarian cancer as part of a phase 1b/2 trial.
The combination of the PD-1/VEGF bispecific antibody AK112 and the PARP inhibitor olaparib (Lynparza) is under investigation as a potential treatment option for patients with BRCA1/2 germline wild-type, platinum-sensitive, recurrent ovarian cancer as part of a phase 1b/2 trial (NCT04999605).1
Although PARP inhibitors have demonstrated improvements in progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer who harbor a BRCA mutation and experience disease recurrence, limited options are available to those with BRCA wild-type disease.
Previously, results from a phase 2 trial (NCT01116648) showed that the combination of the VEGF inhibitor cediranib and olaparib was found to improve the median PFS compared with single-agent olaparib in 46 patients with recurrent, platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer, at 17.7 months (95% CI, 14.7–not reached) and 9.0 months (95% CI, 5.7-16.5), respectively (HR, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.23-0.76; P = .005).2
Moreover, in 806 patients with newly diagnosed, advanced, high-grade ovarian cancer who received frontline platinum-based chemotherapy and bevacizumab (Avastin), the addition of maintenance olaparib resulted in a significant PFS benefit.3 Data from the phase 3 PAOLA-1 trial (NCT-3477644) showed that the median PFS with olaparib plus bevacizumab was 22.1 months vs 16.6 months with bevacizumab alone (HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.49-0.72; P < .001).
The triplet combination comprised of olaparib, durvalumab (Imfinzi), and bevacizumab resulted in a higher objective response rate (ORR) and better median PFS than what has been reported with a PD-1 agent plus a PARP inhibitor, PARP monotherapy, or VEGF monotherapy in patients with germline BRCA wild-type, platinum-sensitive, relapsed ovarian cancer.4
Results from the phase 1/2 MEDIOLA trial (NCT02734004) showed that the triplet elicited an ORR of 87.1% (95% CI, 70.2%-96.4%) vs 34.4% (95% CI, 18.6%-53.2%) with olaparib plus durvalumab. The median PFS with the triplet was 14.7 months (95% CI, 10.0-18.1) vs 5.5 months (95% CI, 3.6-7.5) with the doublet.
Based on all these data, investigators hypothesized that the combination of AK112, a bispecific antibody against both PD-1 and VEGF, and a PARP inhibitor could produce a stronger antitumor effect in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer.
To this end, the multicenter, open-label, phase 1b/2 trial has been launched to examine the safety and efficacy of the combination in patients with BRCA1/2 germline wild-type, platinum-sensitive, recurrent ovarian cancer.
To be eligible for enrollment, patients must have received at least 2 prior lines of platinum-based chemotherapy, have at least 1 measurable lesion per RECIST v1.1 criteria, an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1, a life expectancy of at least 3 months, and acceptable organ function.
They could not have previously received treatment with a PARP inhibitor, nor could they have ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer of nonepithelial origin. Other exclusion criteria included previous targeted therapy using small molecule and/or antiangiogenic therapy, active autoimmune disease requiring systemic treatment in the past 2 years, prior history or concurrent malignant neoplasm with certain exceptions, or a history of abdominal fistula or gastrointestinal perforation linked with anti-VEGF therapy.
In the phase 1b portion of the research, investigators will examine the safety and efficacy of the combination regimen. AK112 will be evaluated at the following dose levels: 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, and 30 mg/kg. The agent will be combined with olaparib, which will be given at a fixed dose of 300 mg. A 3+3 trial design will be used to identify the recommended phase 2 dose of AK112.
In the second phase of the trial, the safety and efficacy of the combination will be further evaluated in approximately 100 patients.
The primary end points for the phase 1b portion of the research are ORR per RECIST v1.1 criteria, dose-limiting toxicities, and adverse effects (AEs). In the phase 2 portion, the primary end point is ORR per RECIST v1.1 criteria and safety.
Other key end points include disease control rate, duration of response (DOR), time to response, PFS, and overall survival per RECIST v1.1 criteria. Investigators will evaluate serum PK concentrations of AK112 and the number and percentage of patients with antidrug antibodies.
They will also explore the correlation between PD-L1 expression and efficacy of the combination, link between germline BRCA1/2 mutational status in the peripheral blood and antitumor activity, and correlations between clinical activity and homologous recombination deficiency and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in tumor tissues.
Investigators will utilize computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging per RECIST v1.1 criteria to evaluate ORR, PFS, and DOR every 6 weeks until progressive disease, a new anticancer treatment is initiated, consent is withdrawn, or death, whichever occurs first.
They will monitor for AEs throughout the trial and for up to 30 days following the last dose of treatment, or 30 days after the last dose if the patient starts a new therapy, whichever is sooner during the follow-up period. Events will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0.
Samples will be collected at multiple time points throughout the trial to evaluate serum concentrations of AK112. Moreover, antidrug antibody assays will be done and reported as either positive or negative.
Wu L, Wang J, Li G, et al. A phase 1b/II clinical study of AK112, a PD-1/VEGF bispecific antibody, in combination with olaparib in BRCA germline wild-type platinum sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer. Presented at: 2021 SITC Annual Meeting; Washington DC. Abstract 430.
Liu JF, Barry WT, Birrer M, et al. Combination cediranib and olaparib versus olaparib alone for women with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer: a randomised phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol. 2014;15(11):1207-1214. doi:10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70391-2
Drew Y, Penson RT, O'Malley DM, et al. 814MO phase II study of olaparib (O) plus durvalumab (D) and bevacizumab (B) (MEDIOLA): initial results in patients (pts) with non-germline BRCA-mutated (non-gBRCAm) platinum sensitive relapsed (PSR) ovarian cancer (OC). Ann Oncol. 2020;31(suppl 4):S615-S616. doi:10.1016/j.annonc.2020.08.953
Heart Disease Prevention in Women | Wellness Times
Search Sign up to receive newsletter You are hereHome › Heart Disease Prevention in Women Heart Disease Prevention in Women
Heart disease is the No. 1 killer of women in North America. Martha Gulati, MD, specializes in heart disease prevention in women. In this audio interview, she describes risk factors and gives diet and lifestyle prevention tips.Martha Gulati, MD, is a cardiologist and associate professor of medicine at The Ohio State University. She is also the Sarah Ross Soter Chair in Women's Cardiovascular Health and the section director for preventive cardiology and women's cardiovascular health at The Ohio State University. She is a coauthor of the most recent guidelines published by the American Heart Association for heart disease prevention in women. She is also coauthor of the book Saving Women's Hearts. For more information, visit www.marthagulati.com. By: Wellness Times June 21st, 2012 Topics: For Women Categories: Features Tweet You May Also Be Interested In
Combined PECS II and Transversus Plane Blocks Versus Erector Spinae Block in Modified Radical Mastectomy - Full Text View - ClinicalTrials.gov
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03903224
Mohamed Bakri, Assiut University
Breast Cancer Acute Postoperative Pain Procedure: Combined Modified Pectoralis and Transversus Plane Blocks Procedure: Erector Spinae block Not Applicable
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women in the United States and is second only to lung cancer as a cause of cancer death. Breast surgery is commonly performed as a part of the management of breast cancer, is associated with considerable acute postoperative pain. Ultrasound guided Regional anesthesia is recommended to be a part of multimodal analgesia in order to manage the acute post-operative pain. New techniques are proposed to give adequate control of postoperative analgesia with less opioid needs in the first day postoperative. They include pectoralis nerve modified pectoralis, and erector spinae blocks.
The investigators will compare Modified pectoralis nerve block (Pecs II) plus transversus thoracic muscle plane (TTP) block versus Erector spinae block on morphine consumption during first 24 h following modified radical mastectomy.
Official Title: Effect of Combined Modified Pectoralis and Transversus Plane Blocks Versus Erector Spinae Block on Postoperative Analgesia Following Modified Radical Mastectomy
Active Comparator: Combined PECS II and TTP blocks (PT)
Modified Pectoralis block (PECS II) : Using ultrasound we proceed to inject 10 ml of bupivacaine 0.25% between the pectoral muscles and 10 ml under Pmm above the serratus muscle.
Transversus Thoracic Plane block : 10 mL bupivacaine (0.25%) is injected between the transversus thoracic muscle and the internal intercostal muscle between the third and fourth left ribs connecting at the sternum.
Modified pectoralis nerve block (Pecs II) aims to block at least the pectoral nerves, the intercostobrachial, intercostals III-IV-V-VI. This will cover dermatomes T2, T3 and T4. The probe is positioned under the lateral third of the clavicle .After locating the subclavian muscle, the axillary artery and the axillary vein we move the probe distally towards the axilla, until the pectoralis minor is identified. We start counting the ribs , from r1 under the axillary artery, we move distally and laterally until the lateral border of pectoralis minor is reached. The serratus anterior muscle which covers r2, r3, r4 is the point of entrance into the axilla.
Blocking of multiple anterior branches of intercostal nerves (Th2-6) using a transversus thoracic muscle plane (TTP) block is used as an additive to pecs II to cover the internal mammary region
Other Name: PECS II and TTP
Active Comparator: Erector Spinae Block (E)
Using ultrasound an echogenic 22-G block needle is inserted in-plane in a cranial-to-caudal direction until contact is made with the T5 transverse process. A total of 30 bupivacaine 0.25% is then injected while seeing the fluid lifting the erector spinae muscle off.
The patient is placed in a sitting position and The T5 spinous process is located by palpating and counting down from the C7 spinous process. Under complete aseptic conditions a linear ultrasound probe is then placed in a transverse orientation at the level of the T5 transverse process. The tip of the transverse process is centred on the ultrasound screen and the probe is then rotated into a longitudinal orientation to produce a parasagittal view. From T1 to T5 the erector spinae, rhomboid major and trapezius muscles are visible posterior and superficial to the transverse processes.
The total morphine consumption postoperative (mg) [ Time Frame: The first 24 hours postoperative. ]
Postoperative pain score by Verbal numeric rating scale [ Time Frame: 0, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24 hours postoperatively. ]
Verbal numeric rating scale (VNRS) for postoperative pain monitoring using 11-point where zero equals no pain and 10 equals the worst pain imaginable.
Time to first request analgesia postoperative (min) [ Time Frame: The first 24 hours postoperatively ]
Time from postoperative period to time of first analgesic request in minutes
Postoperative level of IL6 (interleukin 6) (pg/mL) [ Time Frame: Two blood samples will be withdrawn from the patient. The first one is immediately preoperative and the second one after 24 hours postoperative ]
Preoperative baseline and postoperative levels of IL6 will be measured (pg/mL)
Arterial blood gas: Arterial blood gas: Arterial blood gases [ Time Frame: Before surgery and 24 hours postoperative. ]
Oxygen (mmHg) and carbon dioxide (mmHg)
Age 18: 60 years old
ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologists) physical status I II
Female patients scheduled for modified radical mastectomy
Subjects with a medical contraindication to regional anesthesia , such as coagulopathy, local infection or an allergy to local anesthetic
Presence of psychiatric diseases
History of chronic chest wall pain or neuropathic disorders
Severe chest wall deformities
Please refer to this study by its ClinicalTrials.gov identifier (NCT number): NCT03903224
Contact: Abdelrahman H Mohammed, Assistant Lecturer 01060989574 ext +2 abdelrahmanhm89@gmail.com
Contact: Mohamed H Bakri, Professor doctor 01066356375 ext +2 mhbakri@gmail.com
Responsible Party: Mohamed Bakri, Professor doctor of anaesthesia and ICU Faculty of Medicine - Assiut University, Assiut University
Lately, it appears like everyone seems to be talking concerning the ketogenic (briefly, keto) food plan - the very low-carbohydrate, moderate protein, high-fat eating plan that transforms your body into a fat-burning machine. Hollywood stars and professional athletes have publicly touted this food regimen's benefits, from shedding pounds, lowering blood sugar, fighting irritation, reducing cancer risk, rising energy, to slowing down aging. So is keto something that you must consider taking on? The next will explain what this food plan is all about, the pros and cons, as well as the problems to look out for.
Normally, the body uses glucose as the main supply of fuel for energy. If you find yourself on a keto food plan and you might be eating only a few carbs with only moderate quantities of protein (extra protein will be converted to carbs), your body switches its fuel supply to run mostly on fat. The liver produces ketones (a type of fatty acid) from fat. These ketones develop into a fuel supply for the body, especially the brain which consumes loads of energy and may run on either glucose or ketones.
When the body produces ketones, it enters a metabolic state called ketosis. Fasting is the easiest way to achieve ketosis. If you end up fasting or consuming very few carbs and only moderate quantities of protein, your body turns to burning stored fat for fuel. That is why people are inclined to lose more weight on the keto diet.
The keto weight-reduction plan is not new. It started being used in the Nineteen Twenties as a medical therapy to treat epilepsy in children, but when anti-epileptic medicine got here to the market, the weight-reduction plan fell into obscurity till recently. Given its success in reducing the number of seizures in epileptic sufferers, more and more research is being executed on the ability of the food regimen to deal with a range of neurologic problems and different types of chronic illnesses.
Neurodegenerative diseases. New research indicates the benefits of keto in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, autism, and a number of sclerosis (MS). It might even be protective in traumatic brain injury and stroke. One theory for keto's neuroprotective effects is that the ketones produced during ketosis provide additional fuel to brain cells, which may help these cells resist the damage from inflammation caused by these diseases.
Obesity and weight loss. In case you are making an attempt to drop extra pounds, the keto food plan could be very efficient as it helps to access and shed your body fat. Constant starvation is the biggest subject when you try to lose weight. The keto weight loss plan helps avoid this problem because reducing carb consumption and rising fat intake promote satiety, making it easier for people to adright here to the diet. In a research, overweight test topics lost double the quantity of weight within 24 weeks happening a low-carb eating regimen (20.7 lbs) compared to the group on a low-fat diet (10.5 lbs).
Type 2 diabetes. Other than weight loss, the keto weight loss program additionally helps enhance insulin sensitivity, which is good for anybody with type 2 diabetes. In a examine published in Nutrition & Metabolism, researchers noted that diabetics who ate low-carb keto diets had been able to significantly reduce their dependence on diabetes remedy and should even reverse it eventually. Additionally, it improves other health markers reminiscent of lowering triglyceride and LDL (bad) ldl cholesterol and raising HDL (good) cholesterol.
Cancer. Most individuals will not be aware that cancer cells' main fuel is glucose. That means consuming the right weight loss program could help suppress cancer growth. Since the keto diet is very low in carbs, it deprives the cancer cells of their major supply of fuel, which is sugar. When the body produces ketones, the healthy cells can use that as energy however not the cancer cells, so they're successfully being starved to death. As early as 1987, research on keto diets have already demonstrated reduced tumor progress and improved survival for a number of cancers.
If you have any type of inquiries pertaining to where and how to utilize benefits of keto diet, you can call us at our own web site.
4. SVD is caused by a virus and is thought to have evolved in the 1960s producing a virus affecting only pigs and causing disease with signs identical to Foot and Mouth Disease ( FMD). Because it is very difficult to distinguish between SVD and FMD without laboratory tests, SVD is a notifiable disease. In terms of mortality and animal welfare the impact of SVD is much less severe than FMD.
5. SVD first appeared in Britain in 1972 and was eventually eradicated in 1982. Outbreaks have been reported throughout Eurasia since the first recorded case in 1966 and the disease is currently considered to be endemic in Italy. The SVD virus is fast-spreading and highly resilient, which means that, once established, the disease is very difficult to eradicate. Many countries refuse to import pigs and/or pig products from regions where SVD is present, meaning that outbreaks can have a devastating effect on international trade.
6. The disease is characterised by vesicles (blisters) on the legs and around the mouth of affected pigs, hence the similarity with FMD. Affected pigs may also be lame as the vesicles appear and subsequently rupture. They may also be feverish and reluctant to eat although this is less common. SVD can be subclinical (pigs show no clinical signs but are infected and will still be infectious to others), mild or severe depending on the strain of virus, the age of pigs affected and the conditions under which the pigs are kept. Younger animals tend to show more severe clinical signs than older pigs and animals housed on wet concrete are usually worse affected than those on straw or grass as abrasion from hard floors bursts the vesicles and promotes secondary infection. The incubation period for SVD is between 2 and 7 days. Generally, the illness is short-lived and most pigs make a full recovery in 2 to 3 weeks. It is unusual for pigs to die from SVD.
As COVID-19 continues to spread, the chances that you will be exposed and get sick continue to increase. If you've been exposed to someone with COVID-19 or begin to experience symptoms of the disease, you may be asked to self-quarantine or self-isolate. What does that entail, and what can you do to prepare yourself for an extended stay at home? How soon after you're infected will you start to be contagious? And what can you do to prevent others in your household from getting sick?
People with COVID-19 may also experience neurological symptoms, gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms, or both. These may occur with or without respiratory symptoms.
Therefore, at the current time, people with "flulike" symptoms should assume they have COVID. That means isolating and contacting your doctor or local board of health to arrange testing.
A specialized diagnostic test must be done to confirm that a person has an active coronavirus infection. Most often a clinician takes a swab of your nose (or both your nose and throat). Some tests may be done using a saliva sample. The sample is then checked for the virus's genetic material (PCR test) or for specific viral proteins (antigen test).
Antibody tests can tell if someone has been infected with COVID-19. But the infected person doesn't begin producing antibodies immediately. It can take as long as three weeks for a blood antibody test to turn positive. That's why it is not useful as a diagnostic test for someone with new symptoms.
Are there at-home tests for COVID-19?
Available over the counter, without a doctor's prescription
The FDA has granted emergency use authorization (EUA) to the first COVID-19 test that can be obtained without a doctor's prescription and fully performed at home. The Ellume COVID-19 Home Test is approved for use in adults and in children age 2 and older, with or without COVID-19 symptoms.
Like other antigen tests, this test is less accurate than "gold standard" PCR tests, but initial studies suggest the accuracy comes close to PCR testing. Until there is much more real-world experience with this home test, the FDA recommends interpreting any result with caution.
If you have COVID-like symptoms, you should self-isolate and contact your doctor whether your test is positive or negative. Your doctor will likely suggest a PCR test for confirmation. You should also self-isolate and call your doctor if you get a positive test result, even if you don't have symptoms. A negative test if you don't have symptoms makes it very unlikely that you are infected. However, you should continue to follow the standard prevention strategies of physical distancing, avoiding crowds, wearing a mask, and hand washing.
This test will be available in drugstores and is expected to cost about $30.
The FDA has approved a diagnostic test for COVID-19 that can be completed entirely at home, from sample collection to receiving the results. Other FDA-approved COVID-19 tests allow at-home sample collection, but still have to be shipped to a laboratory for processing.
The Lucira COVID-19 All-In-One Test Kit is approved for people ages 14 and older who are suspected of having COVID-19. It requires a doctor's prescription. The company does not expect the test to be widely available until the spring of 2021.
To perform the test, you swirl a swab in both nostrils, then stir the swab in a vial of chemicals. The vial is then plugged into a battery-powered test unit, which returns a positive or negative test result within 30 minutes.
The test works by making copies of the virus's genetic material (if present) until it reaches detectable levels. It does this using a technique called loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP). The method is similar to PCR, the gold standard of COVID-19 diagnostic testing. The LAMP test provides much faster results, but it is less accurate. In a head-to-head comparison, the Lucira test missed 6% of people who tested positive for COVID by PCR.
Because a person can be infected and have a negative LAMP test, you should always self-quarantine if you have symptoms consistent with COVID, or have had recent contact with someone who has the infection, until you can get a PCR test.
The FDA has granted emergency use authorization to a rapid antigen test for COVID-19. How is it different from other tests on the market?
The BinaxNOW COVID-19 Ag Card, as the test is known, detects antigen proteins on the surface of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. Unlike other diagnostic tests for COVID-19, BinaxNOW does not require a laboratory or other equipment to process or analyze the test results. This makes it portable and fast — results are available within 15 minutes.
This test is approved for use in people who are suspected of having COVID-19, and must be done within seven days of when their symptoms began. A prescription is needed to get this test, which can be performed in authorized locations including doctor's offices and emergency rooms.
What is the difference between a PCR test and an antigen test for COVID-19?
PCR tests detect the presence of the virus's genetic material using a technique called reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR. For this test, a sample may be collected through a nasal or throat swab, or a saliva sample may be used. The sample is typically sent to a laboratory where coronavirus RNA (if present) is extracted from the sample and converted into DNA. The DNA is then amplified, meaning that many of copies of the viral DNA are made, in order to produce a measurable result. The accuracy of any diagnostic test depends on many factors, including whether the sample was collected properly, when during the course of illness the testing was done, and whether the sample was maintained in appropriate conditions while it was shipped to the laboratory. Generally speaking, PCR tests are highly accurate. However, it can take days to over a week to get the results of a PCR test.
Antigen tests detect specific proteins on the surface of the coronavirus. They are sometimes referred to as rapid diagnostic tests because it can take less than an hour to get the test results. Positive antigen test results are highly specific, meaning that if you test positive you are very likely to be infected. However, there is a higher chance of false negatives with antigen tests, which means that a negative result cannot definitively rule out an active infection. If you have a negative result on an antigen test, your doctor may order a PCR test to confirm the result.
How do saliva tests compare to nasal swab tests for diagnosing COVID-19?
The saliva test is easier to perform — spitting into a cup versus submitting to a swab — and more comfortable. Because a person can independently spit into a cup, the saliva test does not require interaction with a healthcare worker. This cuts down on the need for masks, gowns, gloves, and other protective equipment.
These results are very similar to prior studies, reinforcing that a single negative swab or saliva test does not mean you don't have COVID. If you have symptoms suggestive of COVID, presume you may still be infected to avoid transmitting the virus to others.
How reliable are the tests for COVID-19?
Two types of diagnostic tests are currently available in the US. PCR tests detect viral RNA. Antigen tests, also called rapid diagnostic tests, detect specific proteins on the surface of the coronavirus. Antigen test results may come back in as little as 15 to 45 minutes; you may wait several days or longer for PCR test results.
The accuracy of any diagnostic test depends on many factors, including whether the sample was collected properly. For PCR tests, which are typically analyzed in a laboratory, test results may be affected by the conditions in which the test was shipped to the laboratory.
Results may also be affected by the timing of the test. For example, if you are tested on the day you were infected, your test result is almost guaranteed to come back negative, because there are not yet enough viral particles in your nose or saliva to detect. The chance of getting a false negative test result decreases if you are tested a few days after you were infected, or a few days after you develop symptoms.
Generally speaking, if a test result comes back positive, it is almost certain that the person is infected.
A negative test result is less definite. There is a higher chance of false negatives with antigen tests. If you have a negative result on an antigen test, your doctor may order a PCR test to confirm the result.
If you experience COVID-like symptoms and get a negative PCR test result, there is no reason to repeat the test unless your symptoms get worse. If your symptoms do worsen, call your doctor or local or state healthcare department for guidance on further testing. You should also self-isolate at home. Wear a mask when interacting with members of your household. And practice physical distancing.
I've heard that the immune system produces different types of antibodies when a person is infected with the COVID-19 coronavirus. How do they differ? Why is this important?
While the immune system could potentially respond to different parts of the virus, it's the spike proteins that get the most attention. Immune cells recognize the spike proteins as a foreign substance and begin producing antibodies in response.
Binding antibodies. These antibodies can bind to either the spike protein or a different protein known as the nucleocapsid protein. Binding antibodies can be detected with blood tests starting about one week after the initial infection. If antibodies are found, it's extremely likely that the person has been infected with the COVID-19 coronavirus. The antibody level declines over time after an infection, sometimes to an undetectable level.
Neutralizing antibodies. The body makes these antibodies specifically against the spike protein. In the laboratory, scientists have observed that neutralizing antibodies block the virus from getting into live cells. And human studies have shown that neutralizing antibodies made against other coronaviruses help prevent re-infection.
Scientists are optimistic that the same will be true for the COVID-19 coronavirus, and that neutralizing antibodies will block cell-to-cell transmission of this virus in humans, and offer protection against reinfection, at least for two to three months.
In November 2020, the FDA authorized emergency use of a test for COVID-19 neutralizing antibodies.
People who have completely recovered from a COVID-19 infection and have neutralizing antibodies in their blood can potentially donate plasma, the component of blood that contains antibodies, to help COVID-19 patients recover from their illness.
Can a person who has been infected with coronavirus get infected again?
Natural immunity to COVID-19 is the protection that results from having been sick. But we don't know how long natural immunity lasts, or how strong it is. So can we count on natural immunity to protect us from reinfection? If so, for how long? Unfortunately, we don't know the answer to either of those questions.
There have been some confirmed cases of reinfection with COVID-19. In other words, a person got sick with COVID-19, recovered, and then became infected again. This is rare, but it can happen.
The CDC states that people who have gotten sick with COVID-19 may still benefit from getting vaccinated. For now, people are eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccine whether or not they were previously infected. Vaccination criteria may change in the future as scientists learn more about natural immunity after COVID illness.
It's also worth noting that someone who has been re-infected — even someone with no symptoms — has the potential to spread the virus to others. That means that everyone, even those who have recovered from coronavirus infection, and those who have been vaccinated, should continue to wear masks, practice physical distancing, and avoid crowds.
Your body takes one to three weeks after you have acquired the infection to develop antibodies to this virus. For this reason, serologic tests are not sensitive enough to accurately diagnose an active COVID-19 infection, even in people with symptoms.
The time from exposure to symptom onset (known as the incubation period) is thought to be two to 14 days, though symptoms typically appear within four or five days after exposure.
We know that a person with COVID-19 may be contagious 48 hours before starting to experience symptoms. Emerging research suggests that people may actually be most likely to spread the virus to others during the 48 hours before they start to experience symptoms.
This strengthens the case for face masks, physical distancing, and contact tracing, all of which can help reduce the risk that someone who is infected but not yet experiencing symptoms may unknowingly infect others.
By the 10th day after COVID symptoms begin, most people will no longer be contagious, as long as their symptoms have continued to improve and their fever has resolved. People who test positive for the virus but never develop symptoms over the following 10 days after testing are probably no longer contagious, but again there are documented exceptions.
A full, 14-day quarantine remains the best way to avoid spreading the virus to others after you've been exposed to someone with COVID-19. However, according to CDC guidelines, you may discontinue quarantine after a minimum of 10 days if you do not have any symptoms, or after a minimum of seven days if you have a negative COVID test within 48 hours of when you plan to end quarantine. People who are fully vaccinated do not need to quarantine or get tested after exposure, because their risk of infection is low. But they should be alert for symptoms, and should isolate and get tested if they develop symptoms after exposure.
One of the main problems with general rules regarding contagion and transmission of this coronavirus is the marked differences in how it behaves in different individuals. That's why everyone needs to wear a mask and keep a physical distance of at least six feet.
It varies. Most people with mild cases appear to recover within one to two weeks. However, recent surveys conducted by the CDC found that recovery may take longer than previously thought, even for adults with milder cases who do not require hospitalization. The CDC survey found that one-third of these adults had not returned to normal health within two to three weeks of testing positive for COVID-19. Among younger adults (ages 18 to 34) who did not require hospitalization and who did not have any underlying health conditions, nearly one in five had not returned to normal health within two to three weeks after testing positive for COVID-19. With severe cases, recovery can take six weeks or more.
Who are long haulers? And what is post-viral syndrome?
Long haulers are people who have not fully recovered from COVID-19 weeks or even months after first experiencing symptoms. Some long haulers experience continuous symptoms for weeks or months, while others feel better for weeks, then relapse with old or new symptoms. The constellation of symptoms long haulers experience, sometimes called post-COVID-19 syndrome or post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), is not unique to this infection. Other infections, such as Lyme disease, can cause similar long-lasting symptoms.
Emerging research may help predict who will become a long hauler. One study found that COVID-19 patients who experienced more than five symptoms during their first week of illness were significantly more likely to become long haulers. Certain symptoms — fatigue, headache, difficulty breathing, a hoarse voice, and muscle or body aches — experienced alone or in combination during the first week of illness also increased the chances of becoming a long hauler, as did increasing age and higher body mass index (BMI).
Though these factors may increase the likelihood of long-term symptoms, anyone can become a long hauler. Many long haulers initially have mild to moderate symptoms — or no symptoms at all — and do not require hospitalization. Previously healthy young adults, not just older adults with coexisting medical conditions, are also experiencing post-COVID-19 syndrome.
Symptoms of post-COVID-19 syndrome, like symptoms of COVID-19 itself, can vary widely. Some of the more common lasting symptoms include fatigue, worsening of symptoms after physical or mental activity, brain fog, shortness of breath, chills, body ache, headache, joint pain, chest pain, cough, and lingering loss of taste or smell. Many long haulers report cognitive dysfunction or memory loss that affects their day-to-day ability to do things like make decisions, have conversations, follow instructions, and drive. The common thread is that long haulers haven't returned to their pre-COVID health, and ongoing symptoms are negatively affecting their quality of life.
There's already some speculation, but no definite answers, about what is causing these ongoing symptoms. Some researchers suspect that SARS-CoV-2 infection triggers long-lasting changes in the immune system. Others propose that it triggers autonomic nervous system dysregulation, which can impact heart rate, blood pressure, and sweating, among other things.
In February 2021, the National Institutes of Health announced a $1.15 billion initiative to support research into the causes and ultimately the prevention and treatment of long-haul COVID.
Many long haulers never had laboratory confirmation of COVID-19, which can make it tricky to diagnose post-COVID-19 syndrome. Early on in the pandemic, tests were scarce. Many people who suspected they had COVID-19 self-isolated without getting a test, or were refused a COVID test when they requested one. And the tests themselves have not been entirely reliable; both diagnostic tests and antibody tests may return false negative results if taken too early or too late in the course of illness.
The most recent CDC guidance states that someone who has had COVID-19 can discontinue isolation once they have met the following criteria:
It has been more than 10 days since your symptoms began.
You have been fever-free for more than 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medications.
The CDC is no longer recommending a negative COVID-19 test before going back out in public.
Anyone who tested positive for COVID-19 but never experienced symptoms may discontinue isolation 10 days after they first tested positive for COVID-19.
Even after discontinuing isolation, you should still take all precautions when you go out in public, including wearing a mask, minimizing touching surfaces, and keeping at least six feet of distance away from other people.
Self-isolation is voluntary isolation at home by those who have or are likely to have COVID-19 and are experiencing mild symptoms of the disease (in contrast to those who are severely ill and may require hospitalization). The purpose of self-isolation is to prevent spread of infection from an infected person to others who are not infected. If possible, the decision to isolate should be based on physician recommendation. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you should self-isolate.
have been exposed to the COVID-19 virus and are experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19 (fever, cough, difficulty breathing), whether or not you have been tested.
You may also consider self-isolation if you have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 (fever, cough, difficulty breathing) but have not had known exposure to the new coronavirus and have not been tested for it. In this case, it may be reasonable to isolate yourself for a minimum of 10 days from when you begin to experience symptoms.
Self-quarantine is advised for anyone who has been exposed to the COVID-19 virus, regardless of whether you are experiencing symptoms. The purpose of self-quarantine (as with self-isolation) is to prevent the possible spread of COVID-19. A full, 14-day quarantine remains the best way to ensure that you don't spread the virus to others. However, according to CDC guidelines, you may discontinue quarantine after a minimum of 10 days if you do not have any symptoms, or after a minimum of seven days if you have a negative COVID test within 48 hours of when you plan to end quarantine. According to CDC guidelines released in March 2021, people who are fully vaccinated do not need to quarantine or get tested after exposure, because their risk of infection is low. But they should be alert for symptoms, and should isolate and get tested if they develop symptoms after exposure.
If you have not had symptoms and you begin to feel feverish or develop fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, immediately limit contact with others if you have not already done so. Call your doctor or local health department to determine whether you need a medical evaluation.
When can I discontinue my self-quarantine?
A full, 14-day quarantine remains the best way to ensure that you don't spread the virus to others after you've been exposed to someone with COVID-19. However, according to CDC guidelines, you may discontinue quarantine after a minimum of 10 days if you do not have any symptoms, or after a minimum of 7 days if you have a negative COVID test within 48 hours of when you plan to end quarantine.
You can also help them to plan ahead. For example, ask your parents to give their neighbors or friends a set of house keys. Have them stock up on prescription and over-the counter medications, health and emergency medical supplies, and nonperishable food and household supplies. Check in regularly by phone, Skype, or however you like to stay in touch.
Can people infect pets with the COVID-19 virus?
The virus that causes COVID-19 does appear to spread from people to pets, according to the FDA, though this is uncommon. Research has found that cats and ferrets are more likely to become infected than dogs.
If you have a pet, do the following to reduce their risk of infection:
Avoid letting pets interact with people or animals that do not live in your household.
Walk dogs on a leash maintaining at least six feet from other people and animals.
If you become sick with COVID-19, restrict contact with your pets, just like you would around other people. This means you should forgo petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding with your pet until you are feeling better. When possible, have another member of your household care for your pets while you are sick. If you must care for your pet while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with your pets and wear a face mask.
At present, it is considered unlikely that pets can spread the COVID-19 virus to humans. However, pets can spread other infections that cause illness, including E. coli and Salmonella, so wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water after interacting with your animal companions.
The tragedy of the post-COVID "long haulers"
The hidden long-term cognitive effects of COVID
You think you've got COVID-19. Here's what you need to do (recorded 4/10/20)
We asked Dr. Mallika Marshall, medical reporter for CBS-affiliate WBZ TV in Boston and an instructor at Harvard Medical School, how we should react when we start to experience a dry cough or perhaps spike a fever. Who do you call? How do you protect your family? When does it make sense to move toward an emergency department, and how should we prepare? Dr. Marshall is the host of Harvard Health Publishing's online course series, and an urgent care physician at Mass General Hospital.
Economic Evaluation of Community Health Strategy in Rural Kenya - Caroline Akinyi - Livres spécialisés - Africa Vivre
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Using Community Health Workers in Promotion of Maternal Health Service in Western Kenya
This book contains economic evaluation( Cost-Effectiveness Analysis) of Community Health Strategy in rural western Kenya which supports utilization of Community Health Workers in the promotion of uptake of maternal health services.The specific maternal health indicators in this book are Focused Antenatal Care(FANC) and Health Facility(HF) Delivery due to their low uptake by women which has led to perennial high maternal mortality rates in Kenya.
Community Health Strategy was initiated in 2006 by the Ministry of Health in Kenya and hence information as to whether it is a cost-effective strategy especially during the implementation process is very important for evidence based decision making by policy makers.
Furthermore, this book narrows down to the rural Kenyan population where their health seeking behaviours are low especially in terms of receiving medical care from a Health Facility.
à propos du livre Economic Evaluation of Community Health Strategy in Rural Kenya
Auteur : Caroline Akinyi
à propos de Caroline Akinyi
Caroline Akinyi was born in Nairobi, Kenya.She is the first born in a family of four children.She holds her first degree in Actuarial Science with IT and Masters Degree in Community Health and Development.Currently married with a daughter and a lecturer at Great Lakes University of Kisumu.This is her first publication in Health Economics.
Physical Therapist Jobs in Willoughby, Ohio 93 Willoughby, OH Physical Therapist jobs found on Monster.
Description Physical Therapy Assistant - PTA Highland Heights is a brand new facility with brand new therapy equipment! Saber Healthcare, a leading long term care and assisted living provider is seeking a Physical Therapist Assistant. It is Saber's mission to provide the highest quality of care possible to all those we are privileged to serve. This entails a continuing commitment to always ...
Physical Therapist / PT SNF/Home Health/LTC/OutP Setting
Job Description: Ardor Health is currently looking for an: PT - Physical Therapist for a Hospital, near Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor, OH. Ardor Health Solutions a leader in healthcare staffing, is looking for a Physical Therapist/PT to join our team and continue to represent a company committed to providing excellence in Healthcare services. Ardor Health Solutions offers our therapists the best opport...
Jackson Therapy Partners has immediate travel opportunities for experienced Physical Therapy professionals (PT) in the Cleveland area. Earn top pay, 401K, housing, great benefits from day one and 24/7 recruiter access. _cn_ Jackson Therapy Partners _rfc_ 1744_352868236...
The Physical Therapist is responsible for performing physical therapy evaluations and treatments as ordered by qualified physicians in accordance with current federal and state physical therapy standards, guidelines, and regulations that govern the Skilled Nursing Facility, Home Health Agency, Home Care, and/or Hospice Agency and as may be directed by the Administrator or Director of Therapy to en...
Licensed Physical Therapist Asst / PTA-PRN - (Job Number: 1609928)
Graduate of an accredited Physical Therapy Program. Licensed by the State of Ohio Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy and Athletic Trainer Board. Valid Ohio driver's license. One year Home Health/Geriatric patient care experience. Have and maintain a driving record that meets insurable status. Equal Opportunity Employer Minorities/Women/Protected Veterans/Disabled _cc_ c994d7c8 _cn_ Lake Healt...
Are you interested in becoming part of an outstanding team of professionals who make patient and family-centered care their priority? We currently have the following opportunity for an energetic, skilled, and compassionate individual like you to become part of the Lake Health team. Graduate of an accredited Physical Therapy Program. Licensed by the State of Ohio Occupational Therapy, Physical The...
Per Diem Physical Therapist (PT) Covering Summit & Portage Counties
- Physical Therapist (PT) Physical TherapistOutpatient– PRN Euclid Hospital Evaluate and treat adolescents, adult and geriatric patients at our Euclid Hospital Outpatient Center. Please State Your PRN Availability in Cover Letter Licensed New Graduates Welcome to apply Euclid Hospital ranked within the Top 10 of Cleveland-area hospitals by U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals in Clevel...
- Physical Therapist (PT) Physical TherapistEuclid HospitalWeekends + 1 weekday Euclid Hospital has a part-time opportunity providing Evaluation/ Treatment to primarily geriatric patients in Acute, SNF, and Inpatient Rehab Settings. Experience preferred.Please submit availability in cover letter Evaluates and conducts medically prescribed physical therapy treatment programs.Performs initial and o...
University Hospitals Richmond campus of UH Regional Hospitals, is a 110-bed, full-service, community-based, acute-care teaching hospital. The hospital offers the residents of Lake and eastern Cuyahoga counties more than 30 specialties from over 400 physicians, supported by an outstanding nursing staff. The financial investment made by University Hospitals at UH Richmond Medical Center has enhanced...
Physical Therapist Concord PRN
Founded in 1952 and beginning formal operations in 1959, University Hospitals Geauga Medical Center is a 225-bed, non-profit acute care facility providing a full range of services to residents in Geauga, Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Lake, Portage and Trumbull counties in Northeast Ohio. University Hospitals Geauga Medical Center provides care in more than 40 clinical specialties, including the Harrington-...
38th Annual Hawaii Dermatology Seminar Abstract | Global Academy for Medical Education
sdef_logo_new.jpg
Hilton Waikoloa, Big Island, Hawaii
PA-01: A meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adapalene-benzoyl peroxide topical gel in black subjects with mild or moderate acne
PA-02: A randomized placebo-controlled trial of bimatoprost for androgenic alopecia in men
PA-03: A simple, reliable, and effective store-and-forward teledermatology system
PA-04: Adapalene gel, 0.3% is efficacious in reducing acne lesions in adult women
PA-05: Calcipotriene counteracts betamethasone-induced decrease in biomarkers related to skin atrophy
PA-06: Clinical pearls with ingenol mebutate treatment in elderly patients with actinic keratosis in a community dermatology practice
PA-07: Cutaneous manifestations in hypereosinophilic syndromes
PA-08: Cutaneous tolerability and subject satisfaction of an over-the-counter cleansing and moisturizing regimen in subjects aged 7 to 11 years with acne prone skin
PA-09: Dysregulation of Heat Shock Proteins in Skin Basal Cell Carcinoma
PA-10: Effectiveness of adapalene/benzoyl peroxide gel in the first four weeks of treatment in acne patients
PA-11: Effectiveness and safety of clobetasol propionate 0.05% spray added on to regimens containing biologic agents for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis
PA-12: Effectiveness and safety of tavaborole, a novel boron-based molecule for the topical treatment of toenail onychomychosis: results from two phase 3 studies
PA-13: Efinaconazole 10% solution for the once-daily treatment of mild to moderate onychomycosis: assessment of efficacy in 1655 randomized patients
PA-14: Efinaconazole 10% solution for the once daily treatment of mild to moderate onychomycosis: assessment of safety in 1655 randomized patients
PA-15: Efinaconazole 10% solution once-daily for mild to moderate onychomycosis: patient-reported outcomes in 1655 patients using a validated questionnaire
PA-16: Efinaconazole 10% solution: formulation development program for a new effective topical treatment for onychomycosis
PA-17: First-Line Use of Calcipotriene/Betamethasone Dipropionate Combination Products for the Treatment of Plaque Psoriasis is Associated with Lower Health Care Utilization and Cost
PA-18: Imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% for the treatment of actinic keratosis: assessment of efficacy in 479 randomized patients
PA-19: Imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% for the treatment of actinic keratosis: assessment of safety in 479 randomized patients
PA-20: Imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% for the treatment of external genital warts: assessment of efficacy in 981 randomized patients
PA-21: Imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% for the treatment of external genital warts: assessment of safety in 981 randomized patients
PA-22: In vitro nail penetration study with human nails demonstrates penetration of tavaborole topical solution, 5% through nail polish
PA-23: Key immune modulatory effects exerted by calcipotriene in combination with corticosteroid on human immune cells
PA-24: Korean general population-based health risk assessment (hrA) for alopecia
PA-25: Maximal use systemic exposure (Muse) study evaluating An2728, a novel boron-based small molecule, for the treatment of subjects 2 to 17 years old with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis
PA-26: Novel topical cream delivers safe and effective alternative to traditional psoriasis phototherapy
PA-27: Overall tolerability of adapalene/benzoyl peroxide from a pooled data analysis
PA-28: Patient-reported effectiveness for calcipotriene and etamethasone dipropionate suspension and ointment formulations in psoriasis vulgaris: 4- and 12-week interim results from Pro-long
PA-29: Predicting improvement in signs and symptoms of plaque psoriasis after 1 week of treatment with clobetasol propionate 0.05% spray
PA-30: Racial differences in clinical characteristics, perceptions, and behaviors among adult females with acne vulgaris
PA-31: Safety and efficacy of An2728 topical ointment, 2% and 0.5%, in a phase 2 dose-ranging study of adolescents with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis
PA-32: The use of a tablet-based rating scale in subjects with plaque psoriasis treated with clobetasol propionate 0.05% spray
PA-33: Efficacy of sequential treatment with ingenol mebutate gel 0.015%, following cryosurgery for actinic keratosis on the face and scalp
PA-34: Role of sonic hedgehog pathway in basal cell carcinoma development among central european caucasians
Alexis AF,1 Kerrouche N,2 Callender VD3
1Director, Skin of Color Center, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, New York, New York;
2Galderma R&D, Biot, France;
3Callender Dermatology & Cosmetic Center, Glenn Dale, Maryland
BACKGROUND: Adapalene, a synthetic retinoid analogue, and benzoyl peroxide (BPO), an effective antimicrobial agent, are currently available at concentrations of 0.1% and 2.5%, respectively, as a fixed combination gel for the treatment of acne.
OBJECTIVE: This meta-analysis was conducted to investigate the safety and efficacy of adapalene-benzoyl peroxide (A-BPO) in self-identified black subjects based on the data from 3 trials.
METHODS: Results from 3 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, clinical trials of A-BPO gel were analyzed in a prospective subgroup meta-analysis. Subjects were assessed at weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 for efficacy and safety.
RESULTS: The analysis included 238 self-identified black subjects in the A-BPO and vehicle treatment groups who were treated for 12 weeks. This subgroup was comprised primarily of women with Fitzpatrick skin types V and VI and a mean age of 21.3 years. After 12 weeks of treatment, significantly more subjects achieved investigator global assessment (IGA) success with A-BPO (n = 121; 31.4%) than with vehicle (n=117; 14.5%) (P<.001). Significant reductions in median total lesions were observed with A-BPO compared to vehicle at all postbaseline visits (P<.01). Most subjects did not experience cutaneous irritation. Of those who did, their worst tolerability scores were mostly none or mild for all treatment groups. Most reported adverse events (AEs) were mild in severity. Two subjects reported serious AEs that were unlikely related to the study treatment: 1 AE of worsening depression in the A-BPO group and 1 AE of miscarriage in the vehicle group. Four subjects discontinued treatment due to AEs.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with A–BPO in black subjects with mild to moderate acne was effective and well tolerated.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Warren Winkelman, MD (standing in for Nabil Kerrouche in France); Galderma Laboratories, L.P.; 14501 North Freeway, Fort Worth, TX 76177. E-mail: warren.winkelman@galderma.com
CONFLICTS: A Alexis has served as a consultant and advisory board member for Galderma. W Winkelman is an employee of Galderma Laboratories, L.P.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Study funded and poster/editorial support provided by Galderma Laboratories, L.P.
Roberts J,1 Shapiro J,2 McMichael A,3 Ahluwalia G4
1Northwest Dermatology and Research Center, Portland, Oregon;
2NYU Dermatologic Associates, New York, New York;
3Wake Forest Baptist Health, Department of Dermatology, Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
4Allergan, Inc., Irvine, California
BACKGROUND: Androgenic alopecia (AGA) in men is marked by thinning hair or male pattern balding typically starting at the vertex area of the scalp. Bimatoprost (BIM), a synthetic prostamide approved for treatment of hypotrichosis of the eyelashes, is being investigated for treatment of AGA.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of once-daily topical BIM solution for increasing scalp hair growth in men with AGA.
METHODS: In a phase 2 multicenter trial, men 18-49 years of age with mild to moderate AGA were randomized in a 1:1:1:1:1 ratio to receive in a double-blind manner BIM 0.3%, 0.1%, 0.03%, or vehicle applied once daily, or open-label minoxidil 5% (MIN) applied twice daily to the vertex area of the scalp for 6 months; subjects were followed for 2 months after the last dose of study medication. The primary efficacy measure was change from baseline in target area hair count (TAHC, terminal hairs/cm2 by digital image analysis) and subject self-assessment (SSA) of change in scalp hair growth on a 7-point scale ranging from -3 to +3 (Positive scores indicate increase in scalp hair growth vs baseline). Key secondary efficacy measures included target area hair width (TAHW, mm/cm2 by digital image analysis) and a blinded photographic assessment of change in scalp hair growth vs baseline by global panel review (GPR) on a 7-point scale (-3 to +3) by an independent panel of 3 dermatologists. Safety measures included adverse events, local tolerability assessments, clinical laboratory parameters, physical examinations, vital signs, and electrocardiograms (ECGs).
RESULTS: A total of 307 men with AGA were included in efficacy and safety analyses (61 subjects each in the BIM 0.3%, BIM 0.1%, and MIN groups and 62 subjects each in the BIM 0.03% and vehicle groups). For the double-blind arms at month 6, mean percent change from baseline TAHC was significantly greater with BIM 0.3% (11.1%, P=.008) vs vehicle (3.3%) (BIM 0.1%: 5.3%; BIM 0.03%: 4.2%). At month 6, the distribution of SSA scores in the BIM 0.3%, 0.1%, and 0.03% groups was not significantly different vs vehicle. Mean percent change from baseline at month 6 in TAHW was significantly greater with BIM 0.3% (10.4%, P=0.005) vs vehicle (1.7%) (BIM 0.1%: 4.3%; BIM 0.03%: 2.9%). GPR assessments (Percentage of photographs scored as either +3, +2, or +1) were also significantly greater with BIM 0.3% (21.1%, P=.03) vs vehicle (8.9%) (BIM 0.1%: 12.5%; BIM 0.03%: 8.6%). Two months after stopping treatment (month 8), mean percent change from baseline TAHC (key primary efficacy measure) was not significantly different between any of the BIM treatment arms vs the vehicle group, while significant improvements vs vehicle continued to be seen on GPR (BIM 0.3%, P=.017). The open-label MIN treatment arm showed efficacy results similar to previously published reports (% increase from baseline TAHC at month 6: 18.4%). At the doses tested, the efficacy of any bimatoprost group was less than that of the MIN group. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) related to study medication were reported by 8.2%, 9.8%, 4.8%, 21.3%, and 4.8% of subjects in the BIM 0.3%, 0.1%, 0.03%, MIN 5%, and vehicle groups, respectively; these most commonly included application-site dryness, pruritus, and pain. The most common dermal TEAE with both BIM 0.3% and MIN 5% by subject report was itching (11.5% and 23.0%) and by dermatologist report was dryness/scaling (14.8% and 32.8%). There were no clinically meaningful or dose-dependent changes from baseline to end of study in clinical laboratory parameters, physical examinations, vital signs, and ECGs.
CONCLUSION: Once daily topical BIM 0.3% led to significant scalp hair growth in men with mild to moderate AGA vs vehicle. The safety profile was consistent with established topical treatments for scalp hair growth. Additional studies with higher doses of bimatoprost are currently being conducted in males with AGA.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Janet Roberts, MD; Northwest Dermatology and Research Center; 2330 NW Flanders, Suite 201; Portland, OR 97210. E-mail: janetrobertsmd@gmail.com
CONFLICTS: J Roberts is an investigator for Allergan, Inc. J Shapiro is a consultant for Allergan, Inc., Johnson and Johnson, Merck, and RepliCel Life Sciences. A McMichael is a consultant and investigator for Allergan, Inc. G Ahluwalia is an employee of Allergan, Inc.
Winkelman W
Galderma Laboratories, L.P., Fort Worth, Texas
BACKGROUND: Store-and-forward teledermatology is an emerging technology with the potential to initiate a paradigm shift in how patients and healthcare providers (HCPs) interact. Information communication technologies, such as tablets, may provide an easily accessible interface to facilitate information exchange between patients and HCPs.
OBJECTIVE: A pilot study was conducted to investigate the use of a tablet based numeric rating scale to track improvement of a plaque psoriasis target lesion treated with clobetasol propionate 0.05% spray.
METHODS: This was a prospective open-label, single-arm, single-site study; Subjects with plaque psoriasis were enrolled for study; Target lesion of at least 1cm x 1cm was treated with clobetasol propionate 0.05% spray (CPS) for 15 days. Assessments: The assessment scales and tablet application were developed using open-source software (Google Apps). Assessments were made by the investigator and the subject and entered directly into the tablet. Photographs of target lesion were taken using tablet camera. Adverse events were directly recorded into the tablet.
RESULTS: The results indicate that such a system is simple, cost-effective, reliable, and suitable to use in clinical studies as well as in a clinical setting. Improvements for all assessments were similar between investigators and subjects indicating each viewed target-lesion improvements similarly. This suggests that subjects will give reliable and accurate information regarding their disease state when using a tablet-based rating system.
LIMITATIONS: This was a small pilot study that was not powered. A larger, powered study would confirm the results and the utility of this methodology.
CONCLUSION: This tablet-based rating system is a simple, reliable, and effective teledermatology medium suitable to measure and track disease progression and treatment effects in studies as well as in a clinical setting.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Warren Winkelman, MD; Galderma Laboratories, L.P.; 14501 North Freeway, Fort Worth, TX 76177. E-mail: warren.winkelman@galderma.com
CONFLICTS: W Winkelman is an employee of Galderma Laboratories, L.P.
Berson D,1 Alexis AF2
1Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York;
2Director, Skin of Color Center, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, New York, New York
BACKGROUND: Recent reports suggest an increasing prevalence in adults. In particular, there is an increasing prevalence in adult women, affecting an estimated 40%-50% of women over the age of 20, a difficult population to treat.
OBJECTIVE: Investigate the effect of adapalene gel 0.3% in adult women.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis, subgroup analysis of data pooled from 2 pivotal studies; Adult women 18 or older; 12 weeks of adapalene gel, 0.3%, adapalene gel 0.1%, or vehicle applied once daily at night1,2; Efficacy , safety, and tolerability of adapalene gel, 0.3% compared to vehicle in subjects with acne vulgaris1; Inflammatory, noninflammatory, and total lesion counts were assessed at baseline and week 12.
RESULTS: The results showed a statistically significant difference favoring adapalene gel, 0.3% for the mean percent reduction in total lesion count at Week 12 (P= .045).
LIMITATIONS: This was a post hoc analysis of a subgroup population. A prospective study that enrolled just this population would confirm the results.
CONCLUSION: Subgroup analysis shows that adapalene gel, 0.3% is efficacious in reducing acne lesions in adult females with acne vulgaris; In the phase 3 study, tolerability for adapalene gel, 0.3% was equivalent to adapalene gel, 0.1%.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Diane Berson, MD; Weill Medical College of Cornell University; New York Presbyterian Hospital; 211 E 53rd St # 3, New York, NY 10022. E-mail: dsberson@aol.com
CONFLICTS: D Berson is an investigator of Galderma Laboratories, L.P. A Alexis has served as a consultant and advisory board member for Galderma.
Norsgaard H,1 Descargues P,2 Kurdykowski S,2 Gonzalez T,1 Düenstl G,1 Røpke M1
1LEO Pharma, Ballerup, Denmark;
2GenoSkin, Toulouse, France
BACKGROUND: The calcipotriene/betamethasone dipropionate two-compound suspension is widely used for topical treatment of psoriasis vulgaris. It has been hypothesized that the addition of calcipotriene to the steroid component may counteract steroid-induced skin atrophy. Decreases in collagen synthesis and degradation (suppression of MMPs), hyaluronic acid (HA) and epidermal thickness have all been associated with skin atrophy.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the skin atrophogenic potential of the calcipotriene/betamethasone dipropionate combination with the respective monotreatments by investigating their effect on these biomarkers in vitro in fibroblast and keratinocyte cultures, ex vivo in a new skin explant model (NativeSkinTM) and in vivo in minipigs.
METHODS: For ex vivo and in vivo studies, calcipotriolene 0.005% and betamethasone dipropionate 0.064%, the corresponding vehicle suspension and the mono-components formulated in the vehicle suspension were applied. Monolayer cultures were treated with 100 nM calcipotriene, 1 mcM betamethasone, 100 nM calcipotriene/1 mcM betamethasone (ratio 1:10 as in the fixed-combination product) or a corresponding vehicle control (0.1% dimethyl sulfoxide). Göttingen minipigs were dosed topically once daily with the suspension for a total of four weeks.
RESULTS: Betamethasone dipropionate mono-treatment induced a slight but consistent reduction in collagen I synthesis by fibroblasts in vitro and ex vivo. Secretion of MMP1 and MMP3 from both fibroblasts and keratinocytes was also inhibited by betamethasone dipropionate mono-treatment. In contrast to betamethasone, calcipotriene and the combination increased collagen I synthesis both in vitro and ex vivo. Similarly, an opposing effect of calcipotriene and betamethasone was also seen on MMP expression. Betamethasone dipropionate reduced the secretion of HA in both fibroblast and keratinocyte cultures. Calcipotriene did not affect the secretion of HA in fibroblast cultures while the combination reduced secreted levels of HA to that obtained by betamethasone mono-treatment. However, in keratinocyte cultures calcipotriene enhanced the secretion of HA and no significant change was seen with the combination treatment. In vivo, treatment with betamethasone dipropionate suspension significantly decreased epidermal thickness in minipigs compared with the vehicle group. By contrast, treatment with calcipotriene suspension or the combination did not reduce epidermal thickness in minipigs.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, these data indicate that the calcipotriene component of the two-compound suspension counteracts the betamethasone dipropionate-induced decrease in biomarkers related to skin atrophy.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: H. Noorsgard, LEO Pharma A/S; Industriparken 55; DK-2750 Ballerup; Dan-mark.
CONFLICTS: H Noorsgard has nothing to disclose.
Medical Director, Bettencourt Skin Center, Henderson, NV; Assistant Clinical Professor of Dermatology, University of Nevada, Las Vegas
BACKGROUND: The management of patients with actinic keratosis (AK) includes both lesion-directed and field-directed therapies to target discreet, isolated lesions as well as skin with confluent visible and subclinical AKs.
OBJECTIVE: To retrospectively analyze the charts of patients from a community dermatology practice and describe their results with ingenol mebutate treatment of AK.
METHODS: The chart review extracted information on the patients' medical history and demographics, pertinent history of AK and skin cancer, and treatments for those conditions. Analysis of the patients' current treatment course with ingenol mebutate included data on the size and location of treatment areas, local skin reactions, adverse events, short-term efficacy, and long-term follow-up.
RESULTS: Ingenol mebutate was used to treat AK in 135 patients from January 2012 to January 2013. Of these, 16 patients treated a second body site, and 3 patients treated a third site, for a total of 154 treatments. These patients had a prolonged history of AK that included prior treatment with cryosurgery and/or topical agents. Many of these patients also had a history of nonmelanoma skin cancer. In the current course of treatment with ingenol mebutate, 78% of patients presented with sun-damaged skin with >15 AKs, including AKs that were recurrent or hyperkeratotic. The majority of patients, 77%, received cryosurgery to all visible lesions 2 weeks before their first ingenol treatment course. Ingenol mebutate gel, 0.015%, was used to treat the face in 77 patients, the scalp in 45 patients, and the chest in 1 patient; ingenol mebutate gel, 0.05%, was used to treat the forearms and/or hands in 31 patients. Treatment areas were typically >25 cm2 in size and included portions of the face, the entire scalp, or entire forearms. Local skin reactions consisting of mild to moderate erythema and flaking/scaling generally resolved within 1 week and were not treated in most patients. Complete and partial clearance was defined as 100% and ≥75% clearance, respectively, of baseline and emergent AKs. At 1 to 4 months after treatment of the face, the rates of complete and partial clearance were 44% and 55%, respectively. The rate of complete clearance for patients who treated areas of the face >100 cm2 in size was less than that for patients who treated areas ≤100 cm2 in size. At 1 to 4 months after treatment of the scalp, the rates of complete and partial clearance for the scalp were 22% and 67%, respectively; for forearm and hand AK, >80% of patients demonstrated ≥75% improvement. At evaluations up to 1 year after ingenol mebutate treatment, emergent lesions were recognized in the treated field and treated with cryosurgery. Patients reported high treatment satisfaction and indicated that they would use ingenol mebutate on other body sites with AK.
CONCLUSION: Dermatology patients treated in a community-based practice achieved substantial clearance of AK on head and body sites following treatment with ingenol mebutate gel. The proportion of patients who achieved 100% clearance on the face was higher for treatment areas ≤100 cm2 than for treatment areas >100 cm2. Ingenol mebutate is an effective, well-tolerated topical treatment for managing the burden of AK in sun-damaged skin.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Miriam S. Bettencort, MD; 1701 N Green Valley Pkwy Ste B-7, Henderson, NV 89014.
CONFLICTS: M Bettencourt has no conflicts to report.
Abiodun AO,1,2 Khoury P,1 Klion A1
BACKGROUND: Hypereosinophilic syndromes (HES) are characterized by persistent eosinophilia >1500/mm3 with end organ manifestations, the most common of which are dermatologic. The range of cutaneous findings has not been systematically examined in a large cohort of well-characterized HES subjects to date.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we sought to identify and characterize the skin findings associated with HES.
METHODS: Charts of 317 subjects with eosinophilia >1500/mm3 evaluated at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) from 1983 to 2013 on a clinical protocol to study eosinophilic disorders were reviewed. Epidemiologic, molecular, clinical, laboratory and histological records were examined, and all subjects with reported skin involvement identified. Skin biopsy records were reviewed and correlated with physical exam findings.
RESULTS: Approximately 59% (188/317) of subjects had documented cutaneous findings. Of these, 35.64% (67/188) had idiopathic HES, 13.83% (26/188) had lymphocytic variant HES, 10.64% (20/188) had myeloproliferative HES, and 39.89% (113/188) had other causes of marked eosinophilia. The mean age of initial presentation in this study was 44.05 ±19.45 (SD) years (range 3 months – 85 years), with equal male to female prevalence. Although the most common dermatological findings were pruritus (51.26%), urticaria (13.84%), atopic dermatitis (11.64%) and angioedema (10.69%), unusual manifestations, such as skin ulcers and bullous lesions, were seen in some subjects. Skin biopsies were done in 39% (73/188) of cases. The most common clinical diagnoses after pathologic examination were atopic dermatitis (22.47%), urticaria (12.36%), eosinophilic cellulitis (6.74%) and eosinophilic fasciitis (6.74%).
LIMITATIONS: This study has several limitations. Due to the retrospective nature of the analysis, complete data sets were not available for all subjects. Furthermore, the fact that biopsies were not performed systematically in all subjects may have resulted in bias towards particular histopathological diagnoses. Finally, medication administration at the time of presentation may have confounded the ability to make a histologic diagnosis in some cases.
CONCLUSION: HES is a heterogeneous multisystem disease, which often presents with cutaneous manifestations. Although the majority of dermatologic manifestations identified were not specific for eosinophilic disease, a high percentage of subjects who underwent skin biopsy had evidence of eosinophilic infiltration.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Annalise O. Abiodun; National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases; NIH/NIAID/Eosinophil Pathology Unit; 4 Memorial Drive, Bldg 4, Room B128; Bethesda, MD 20892. E-mail: Annalise.Abiodun@nih.gov
CONFLICTS: No author has any financial disclosures. This research was made possible through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Medical Research Scholars Program, a public-private partnership supported jointly by the NIH and generous contributions to the Foundation for the NIH from Pfizer Inc, The Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, The Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Mr and Mrs Joel S. Marcus, and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, as well as other private donors. This research was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the NIH, NIAID.
Hensley DR,1 Brandt S2
1Metroplex Dermatology, Arlington, Texas;
2Galderma Laboratories, L.P., Fort Worth, Texas
BACKGROUND: To investigate a commercially available foaming facial wash and moisturizer SPF 30 skin care regimen specifically formulated for acne-prone skin in subjects 12 years of age and older.
OBJECTIVE: To show a commercially available foaming facial wash and moisturizer SPF 30 skin care regimen specifically formulated for acne-prone skin can be safe and tolerable in subjects 12 years of age and older.
METHODS: Open-label, single-center study; Boys and girls, 7 to 11 years of age, with acne-prone skin; Global severity of acne (GSA) score of 1 (almost clear) or 2 (mild) and any oiliness evaluation score or; GSA Score of 0 (none) with an oiliness evaluation score ≥ 1 (mild). A foaming facial wash was applied twice daily and a facial moisturizer SPF 30 was applied once daily for duration of 22 days.
RESULTS: Overall, there was a favorable response to all subject satisfaction questions asked at study end. Most subjects responded that they liked using the foam wash and moisturizer and would keep using both of these products (97.1% and 97.1%, respectively).
LIMITATIONS: A larger study population that included teenagers would confirm and strengthen the results of the study.
CONCLUSION: The foam wash and moisturizer were safe and well-tolerated in subjects 7 to 11 years of age. Most subjects responded favorably to all subject satisfaction questions for both products.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Staci Brandt; Galderma Laboratories, L.P.; 14501 North Freeway, Fort Worth, TX 76177. E-mail: staci. brandt@galderma.com
CONFLICTS: S Brandt is an employee of Galderma Laboratories, L.P.
Sobjanek M,1 Hejka A,2 Antoniewicz J,2 Stanislawowski M,2 Zmijewski MA,2 Slominski A,3 Nowicki R1
1Department of Dermatology, Venerology and Allergology
2Department's of Histology, Medical University of Gdańsk, Poland
3Department of Laboratory Medicine, Center for Cancer Research, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis
BACKGROUND: Pathogenesis of basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common malignancy in Caucasian population is complex and strongly connected with environmental and genetic factors. Heat shock proteins (HSPs) belong to a highly conserved in-evolution group of proteins involved in stress response and protein folding. HSPs also exert other regulatory functions important for cell survival or differentiation. However, there is a shortage of information on HSPs role in development and propagation of BCC.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the presence, relative expression and localization of HSP27, HSP60, HSP90 and HSP105 in BCC and normal skin.
METHODS: A total of 12 BCC skin biopsies and 12 healthy skin specimens (the control group) were served as material for the study. All specimens were stained using immunofluorescence techniques with monoclonal antibodies directed against the chosen proteins.
RESULTS: In normal skin, HSP105 had distinguished localization in the cytoplasm of keratinocytes of squamous and granular layers of epidermis, but not in the stratum basale. A similar pattern was observed in superficial BCC, however, the stain showed a degree of heterogeneity (eg, keratinocytes with very high and very low levels of HSP105 were seen) while BCC cells were negative. In nodular BCC, expression of HSP105 decreased significantly in the epidermis and was undetectable in large nodular BCCs. Furthermore, HSP105 expression was very weak to absent in neoplastic tissue of both superficial and nodular BCC. HSP27 immunoreactivity was present in differentiated keratinocytes of the stratum granulosum and in corneocytes of normal skin. However, selected cells of stratum basale also showed HSP27 immunoreactivity. In the skin involved either by superficial or nodular BCC the HSP27 immunoreactivity was slightly increased in the non-neoplastic epidermis and was very weak in tumor cells. However, degree of heterogeneity was noted with some central areas of the tumor being positive, to others showing only few positive cells for HSP27. Concerning HSP60, it showed pronounced expression in the stratum basale as well as intense expression in other layers including selected cells of the stratum corneum. Moreover, HSP60 immunoreactivity was present in the mitochondria of epidermal cells. Interestingly, significantly higher immunoreactivity of HSP60 was detected in the basal layer of keratinocytes forming BCC nodules as well as in keratinocytes in stratum basale. The intensity of staining decreased towards the center of the lesion. These changes in HSP60 might reflect activity of mitochondria in neoplastic and normal keratinocytes. HSP90 expression was relatively weak and mainly in nuclei of keratinocytes in the epidermis. Even weaker HSP90 immunoreactivity was detected in superficial BCC. However, in some biopsies of nodular BCC, selected cells or patches of cells within the tumor were shown to have high levels of HSP90. Double staining of BCC sections with HSP27 and HSP60 antibodies have shown that distinct regions of higher immunoreactivity for those proteins could reflect metabolic and functional changes in cells during the growth of neoplastic tissues. Similarly, high level of HSP90 expression was shown in a selected population of dermal cells, while not well pronounced in the epidermis and skin lesions.
CONCLUSION: HSPs are essential factors regulating and supporting cell development not only under physiological, but also under pathological conditions. Taking into consideration unique functions of each of the HSPs, the observed changes in the pattern of expression and localization in BCC lesions may shed new light on the development of this disease.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Michal Sobjanek; Department of Dermatology, Wenerology and Allergology, Medical University of Gdansk, Debinki 7 str, 80-952 Gdansk, Poland. E- mail: sobjanek@wp.pl
CONFLICTS: The authors have no relationships to declare.
Gold LS, Winkelman W
BACKGROUND: To help physicians and patients establish a realistic treatment expectation for the first 4 weeks of therapy.
OBJECTIVE: A pooled analysis was conducted to specifically evaluate the effectiveness and tolerability achieved in the first 4 weeks of therapy.
METHODS: Data from 14 studies, including 4 large vehicle-controlled studies (one with patients as young as 9 years of age), were pooled to evaluate the effectiveness and tolerability of adapalene/benzoyl peroxide gel (A-BPO) 0.1%/2.5% among acne subjects during the first 4 weeks of treatment. A total of 2,358 subjects between 9 years and 61 years old were treated with A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5%. In most of these studies, A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5% was used for 12 weeks. Inflammatory lesion counts, noninflammatory lesion counts, total lesion counts, and investigator global assessment scores were the endpoints.
RESULTS: Inflammatory, noninflammatory, and total lesion counts decreased with A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5% use, showing a 40%-50% reduction from baseline after the first 4 weeks of use. A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5% was well tolerated among different skin types, ages, and genders, with most of the worst tolerability assessments being none or mild.
LIMITATIONS: This was a post hoc analysis using data from different studies.
CONCLUSION: A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5% was well tolerated and reduced approximately half of the inflammatory and noninflammatory lesion counts at 4 weeks. The effects seen in the first 4 weeks from these studies are consistent with those already demonstrated in individual vehicle-controlled studies. These observations provide a framework of expectations for A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5% treatment during the first 4 weeks of treatment for clinicians to discuss with their patients.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Warren Winkelman, MD, MBA, PhD; Galderma Laboratories, L.P.; 14501 North Freeway, Fort Worth, TX 76177. E-mail: warren.winkelman@galderma.com
CONFLICTS: L Gold and W Winkelman are employees of Galderma Laboratories, L.P.
Feldman SR,1 Koo JYM,2 Gottschalk RW3
1Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
2University of California, San Francisco Medical Center;
3Galderma Laboratories, L.P.
BACKGROUND: Moderate to severe psoriasis often requires systemic treatment, but even biologic medications do not induce complete clearing in the majority of patients. Topical treatments are often used as adjuncts to systemic treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness and tolerability of clobetasol propionate (CP) spray, 0.05% used either as monotherapy or added to ongoing (add-on) therapy.
METHODS: A phase IV, multicenter, open-label trial was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of twice-daily CP 0.05% spray when added on to an existing stable regimen that included a biologic treatment (3 months duration) in 183 patients with moderate, severe, or very severe plaque psoriasis.
RESULTS: By week 4, 78% of patients with moderate or severe disease and 66% of patients with very severe disease at baseline were clear or almost clear (P<.0001). Worst skin tolerability response was assessed post-baseline and included erythema (28% mild, 6% moderate, 1% severe), peeling (29% mild, 7% moderate, 1% severe), dryness (35% mild, 9% moderate, 2% severe), and stinging (24% mild, 4% moderate, 1% severe). Telangiectasias and skin atrophy were reported in 1% of patients each at some point during the study (Post-baseline). Pruritus was reported in 10% of patients, and folliculitis was reported in 1% of patients. A total of 10 patients experienced adverse events that were regarded as probably related to the study regimen, one of whom discontinued treatment.
LIMITATIONS: This was a post hoc analysis, which would be confirmed using a prospective study.
CONCLUSION: The addition of CP 0.05% spray to a stable regimen including a biologic resulted in a clear or almost clear status in the majority of patients and provides an option for additional control of psoriasis plaques when biologic agents as monotherapy are not as effective as physicians and patients require.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Ronald W. Gottschalk, MD, FRCPC; Galderma Laboratories, L.P.; 14501 North Freeway, Fort Worth, TX 76177. E-mail: debi.stroud@galderma.com
CONFLICTS: R Gottschalk is a contract employee of Galderma Laboratories, L.P.
Elewski BE,1 Rich P,2 Wiltz H,3 Aly R,4 Baldwin SL,5 Zane LT,5 Gonzalez Soto R6
1Department of Dermatology, University of Alabama, Birmingham;
2Oregon Dermatology and Research Center, Portland;
3FXM Research Miramar, Florida;
4Department of Dermatology, University of California, San Francisco;
5Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Palo Alto, California;
6Centre de Dermatologia de Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico
BACKGROUND: Onychomycosis is caused primarily by dermatophytes that invade the nail plate and nail bed causing nails to deform, discolor, thicken, split and separate from the nail bed. Limitations with oral treatment options include potential drug interactions and systemic adverse events. Currently approved topical agents are limited by their relatively lower efficacy and the need for adjunctive debridement.
OBJECTIVE: Two double-blind, randomized, vehicle-controlled, phase 3 trials assessed the effectiveness and safety of tavaborole topical solution, 5% for the treatment of toenail onychomycosis.
METHODS: Both studies enrolled adults with distal subungual onychomycosis affecting 20%-60% of the target great toenail. Study 301 enrolled patients in the United States and Mexico (N=594) and Study 302 enrolled patients in the United States and Canada (N=604). Patients were randomized 2:1 to apply tavaborole topical solution, 5% or vehicle solution to the affected toenails once daily for 48 weeks. Nail debridement was not permitted. The primary efficacy endpoint was complete cure defined as completely clear nail (no clinical evidence of onychomycosis) and negative mycology (negative KOH and fungal culture). Secondary endpoints included completely clear or almost clear nail, defined as <10% clinical involvement; negative mycology; and completely clear or almost clear nail with negative mycology. Primary and secondary endpoints were assessed at Week 52. Safety assessments included recording adverse events (AEs), local tolerability, clinical laboratory testing, physical examinations, vital signs, and electrocardiograms.
RESULTS: The complete cure rates for tavaborole and vehicle in Study 301 were 6.5% and 0.5%, respectively (P=.001), and 9.1% and 1.5% in Study 302, respectively (P<.001). Negative mycology was achieved in 31.1% of patient treated with tavaborole vs 7.2% of vehicle-treated patients in Study 301 and 35.9% vs 12.2% of patients in Study 302 (for each, P<.001). In both studies, the proportion of patients with completely clear or almost clear nail was superior with tavaborole: 26.1 % vs 9.3% in Study 301; 27.5% vs 14.6% in Study 302 (for each, P<.0001). A superior outcome was also observed for completely clear or almost clear nail with negative mycology with tavaborole treatment: 15.3% vs 1.5% in Study 301; 17.9% vs 3.9% for Study 302 (for each, P<.001). In both phase 3 trials, tavaborole topical solution, 5% was well tolerated with no serious treatment-related AEs and a low rate of discontinuation resulting from AEs.
CONCLUSION: Eased on these data, the once-daily application of tavaborole topical solution, 5% appears to be a safe and effective treatment for toenail onychomycosis.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Lee T. Zane, MD; Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 1020 East Meadow Circle; Palo Alto, CA 94303. E-mail: LZane@anacor.com
CONFLICTS: E Elewski was an investigator and currently serves as an advisor for Medicis. L Zane reports this work was sponsored by Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and that he and S Baldwin are employees of the company.
Gupta AK,1 Elewski BE,2 Lin T,3
1Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Canada;
2Department of Dermatology, University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Medicine;
3Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC, Bridgewater, New Jersey
BACKGROUND: Onychomycosis is a common fungal infection of the nail. Oral treatment is generally required but use may be limited by drug interactions and safety concerns. Efficacy rates of current topical treatments have been disappointing. Efinaconazole 10% solution is a new topical triazole antifungal developed for the treatment of onychomycosis.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of efinaconazole 10% solution vs vehicle in mild to moderate onychomycosis of the toenails.
METHODS: Pooled analysis of 2 identical, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled studies in 1655 subjects aged 18-70 years with a clinical and mycological diagnosis of mild to moderate dermatophyte toenail onychomycosis (20%-50% clinical involvement). Subjects were randomized (3:1) to efinaconazole 10% solution or vehicle, once daily for 48 Weeks, with 4-week post-treatment follow-up. Primary efficacy endpoint was complete cure, defined as 0% clinical involvement of the target toenail and mycological cure (negative KOH examination, and negative fungal culture of the target toenail sample). Secondary efficacy criteria included mycological cure, complete or almost complete cure (=5% clinical involvement and mycologic cure), and clinical treatment success (=10% target nail plate involvement). Observed case analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The primary endpoint, complete cure, was significantly greater for efinaconazole 10% solution (18.5% vs 4.7%, P<.001). Mycological cure rates at Week 52 were also significantly greater with efinaconazole 10% solution (56.3% vs 16.6%, P<.001). Complete or almost complete cure was achieved in 27.7% of subjects compared to 7.9% with vehicle (P<.001). Clinical treatment success was achieved in 47.2% of subjects compared to 18.2% with vehicle (P<.001) at Week 52.
CONCLUSION: Once daily efinaconazole 10% solution may be the first topical treatment for onychomycosis to be considered as an alternative to oral treatments.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Aditya Gupta, MD; Division of Dermatology; Department of Medicine; University of Toronto; Toronto, Canada. E-mail: agupta@mediproberesearch.com
CONFLICTS: A Gupta and E Elewski were investigators and are currently serving as advisors for Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals.
Gupta AK,1 Elewski BE,2 Lin T3
BACKGROUND: Onychomycosis is a common fungal infection of the nail. Oral treatment is generally required but use may be limited by drug interactions and other safety concerns (eg, hepatotoxicity). Topical treatment would be preferred as it avoids systemic side effects and the need for laboratory monitoring. Efficacy rates of current topical treatments have been disappointing. Efinaconazole 10% solution is a new topical triazole antifungal developed for the treatment of onychomycosis.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety of efinaconazole 10% solution vs vehicle in mild to moderate onychomycosis of the toenails.
METHODS: Pooled analysis of 2 identical, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled studies in 1655 subjects aged 18-70 years with a clinical and mycological diagnosis of mild to moderate dermatophyte toenail onychomycosis (20%-50% clinical involvement). Subjects were randomized (3:1) to efinaconazole 10% solution or vehicle, once-daily for 48 Weeks, with 4-week post-treatment follow-up. All adverse events (AEs) occurring during the studies were recorded. A Fisher's exact test was used to compare AEs occurring with frequencies of 1% or more. Localized skin reactions; changes in laboratory serum chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis parameters; vital sign measurements (systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature); and changes in ECG findings were assessed throughout.
RESULTS: AE rates with efinaconazole 10% solution and vehicle were similar (65.3% vs 59.8%, P=NS). They were generally mild (52.7%) or moderate (43.1%) in severity, and not related to study drug (92.3%). Overall, the rate of discontinuations due to AEs was low. The most common treatment-related AEs were associated with application site: application site dermatitis (2.1%) and vesicles (1.5%) (P=.006 and P=.011, respectively). Efinaconazole was associated with very few (1%-3% of subjects) localized skin reactions (redness, swelling, burning, itching, or vesiculation), comparable to those seen with vehicle. There were no clinically meaningful changes from baseline in laboratory or vital sign measurements or ECG results for either treatment group. No serious AEs were related to the study drug and resolved with or without sequelae.
CONCLUSION: Once daily efinaconazole 10% solution was well-tolerated and may be the first topical treatment for onychomycosis to be considered as an alternative to oral treatments.
CONFLICTS: A Gupta and E Elewski were investigators for Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals; A Gupta and E Elewski are advisors for Medicis; T Lin is an employee of Medicis.
Feldman SR,1 Pillai R,2 Olin JT,3 Lin T,3
1Department of Dermatology, Pathology and Public Health Services, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
2Dow Pharmaceuticals, a division of Valeant Pharmaceutcials, Petaluma, California;
3Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Bridgewater, New Jersey
BACKGROUND: Onychomycosis is a common fungal infection of the nail. It can be distressing to many patients, associated with disability and pain, and may negatively affect a person's wellbeing and self-esteem. In addition, psychological and social limitations may result from the reaction of others to visible nail disease. Efinaconazole 10% solution is a new topical triazole antifungal developed for the treatment of toenail onychomycosis.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the benefits of efinaconazole 10% solution vs vehicle on patient-reported outcomes (PROs) in mild to moderate onychomycosis of the toenails.
METHODS: The analysis pooled 2 identical, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled studies in 1655 subjects aged 18 to 70 years with a clinical and mycological diagnosis of mild to moderate dermatophyte toenail onychomycosis (20%-50% clinical involvement). Subjects were randomized (3:1) to efinaconazole 10% solution or vehicle, once daily for 48 weeks, with a 4-week post treatment follow-up. PROs were assessed using the validated OnyCOE-t questionnaire at baseline, week 24, and week 52. The OnyCOE-t includes a 7-point toenail symptom assessment, which comprises both symptom frequency and symptom bothersomeness scales; an 8-point appearance problems scale; a 7-point physical activities problems scale; a 1-point overall problem scale; a 7-point stigma scale; and a 3-point treatment satisfaction scale. Observed case analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Mean change in scores from baseline to Week 52 were 26.5 (symptom frequency), 17.8 (symptom bothersomeness), 17.5 (Physical activities problems), 22.6 (appearance problems), 28.0 (overall problem), and 9.2 (stigma) compared to 16.2 (P<.001), 10.9 (P<.001), 11.5 (P=.002), 14.9 (P<.001), 17.1 (P<.001), and 4.3 (P=.002) respectively with vehicle. In addition, the mean score for treatment satisfaction with efinaconazole 10% solution at week 52 was 71.6 compared to 41.6 with vehicle (P<.001).
CONCLUSION: Once daily efinaconazole 10% solution provides clinically meaningful improvements in onychomycosis compared to vehicle.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Steve Feldman, MD, PhD; Departments of Dermatology, Pathology and Public Health Services; Wake Forest University School of Medicine; Winston-Salem, NC. E-mail: sfeldman@wfubmc.edu
CONFLICTS: R Pillai is an employee of Dow Pharmaceuticals, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals; J Olin and T Lin are employees of Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals.
Bhatt V,1 Olin JT,2 Pillai R,1 Soroudi N,2
1Dow Pharmaceuticals, a division of Valeant Pharmaceutcials, Petaluma, California;
2Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Bridgewater, New Jersey
BACKGROUND: Onychomycosis is a common fungal infection of the nail and nail bed. It is difficult to treat topically due to the barrier provided by highly keratinized nail tissue. The only approved topical product is a lacquer, which potentially limits the ability of the drug to reach the nail bed. This poster discusses the steps taken to develop an effective alcohol-based vehicle for efinaconazole. Efinaconazole is the first topical triazole to be specifically developed for onychomycosis and has been shown to have a broad-spectrum highly potent in vitro activity against all the common pathogens.
OBJECTIVE: To formulate efinaconazole in a stable, non-lacquer vehicle that optimizes its access to the nail bed and provides a highly effective topical treatment for onychomycosis.
METHODS: Several prototype formulations were developed using different solvents with good wetting properties (low surface tension) and high lipophilicity that maintain adequate solubility of efinaconazole after evaporation of volatile components. Prototypes were evaluated by conducting in vitro skin penetration studies and selected after assessment of their ability to penetrate human nails. A stability study was initiated to evaluate the physical and chemical stability.
RESULTS: Delivery of efinaconazole across human skin ranged from 0.7% to 10.1% of the applied dose. The low surface tension formulation was best at penetrating through the human nail bed. As a result, it was selected for the Phase 2 clinical program. The formulation was studied under varied conditions of stress conditions resulting in a stability range from 99.7%-104.3% LC over 2 years at 25°C/60% RH in a bottle used in the clinic.
CONCLUSION: Efinaconazole 10% solution is a stable, non-lacquer, topical antifungal with a unique combination of ingredients added to an alcohol based formulation to provide low surface tension and good wetting properties. This low surface tension provides effective penetration through the nail plate and is believed to access the nail bed by wicking into the space between the nail and nail plate. Efinaconazole 10% solution has been studied for the treatment of mild to moderate onychomycosis. The formulation development program succeeded in creating a clinically successful treatment.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Varsha Bhatt, PhD; Dow Pharmaceuticals; a division of Valeant Pharmaceutcials; Petaluma, CA 94954. E-mail: VBhatt@dowpharmsci.com
CONFLICTS: V Bhatt and R Pillai are employees of Dow Pharmaceuticals, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals; J Olin and N Soroudi are employees of Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals.
Feldman SR,1 Levi E,2 Pathak P,3 Kakatkar S,3 Balkrishnan R3,4
1Professor of Dermatology, Pathology & Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
2Scientific Advisor, LEO Pharma Inc., Parsippany, New Jersey;
3Outcomes Inc., Dulles, Virginia;
4Associate Professor of Pharmacy, Public Health and Medicine, University of Michigan
BACKGROUND: Calcipotriene/betamethasone dipropionate combination topical products are an established treatment for patients with plaque psoriasis. In appropriate patients, using the combination products as first-line therapy after the psoriasis diagnosis might be beneficial.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigated whether such use might lower the cost impact on health care budgets.
METHODS: A retrospective study using Thomson Reuters MarketScan national claims data from 2006-2011 was performed to identify patients who received psoriasis medications following a psoriasis diagnosis (ICD-9 code 696.1x). Patients were continuously enrolled during 1-year pre-and post-index date periods. The 2 study cohorts were cohort A (Patients treated with calcipotriene/betamethasone dipropionate combination products immediately post-diagnosis) and cohort B (Patients treated with any other topical psoriasis medication immediately post-diagnosis). The frequency of office visits and total health care costs (includes pharmacy costs and costs of inpatient and outpatient services) during the 1-year post-index period were assessed. Multiple regression analyses adjusting for baseline demographic and clinical covariates, including a proxy for psoriasis severity, were performed.
RESULTS: In total, 16,977 patients were identified in the 2 cohorts based on the topical medication prescribed (cohort A = 7307; cohort B = 9670). During the 1-year follow-up period, mean (± SD) total and psoriasis-related office visits were significantly lower in cohort A (13.36 ± 14.39; 2.79 ± 7.60) than cohort B (16.08 ± 16.68; 4.25 ± 10.23) (both P<.001). Mean total health care costs were less for cohort A ($7785.80 ± $15,255.60; median = $3411) than cohort B ($11,757.20 ± $19,747.60; median = $5595.80) (P<.001). In a generalized linear model adjusted for baseline covariates, cohort A had significantly lower costs than cohort B (β ± SE = 0.041 ± 0.017; P=.02).
CONCLUSION: First-line treatment with calcipotriene/ betamethasone dipropionate combination products after psoriasis diagnosis was associated with fewer office visits and lower total health care costs.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Steven R. Feldman, MD, PhD; Department of Dermatology, Wake Forest University Health Sciences, Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1071. E-mail: sfeldman@wfubmc.edu
CONFLICTS: S Feldman reports personal fees from Leo Pharma, during the conduct of the study; grants and personal fees from Galderma, grants and personal fees from Amgen, grants and personal fees from Abbott, grants and personal fees from Janssen, outside the submitted work.
Swanson N,1 Lin T,2 Jorizzo JL,3,4
1Department of Dermatology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland;
2Medicis (a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals) Bridgewater, New Jersey;
3Dermatology Department at Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
4Dermatology Department, Weill Cornell School of Medicine, New York, New York
BACKGROUND: Approved imiquimod 5% cream regimen for actinic keratosis (AK) requires a long treatment course, limited to a small skin area. Daily dosing to reduce the length of treatment course was not well-tolerated. Frequent dosing with lower concentrations may provide a realistic option.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of more frequent dosing with a lower concentration (3.75% and 2.5%) imiquimod cream for AK treatment of the full face or balding scalp.
METHODS: Two identical multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled studies in adult subjects with 5 to 20 visible lesions, or palpable AKs in an area exceeding 25cm2 on either the face or balding scalp, randomized to imiquimod 3.75%, 2.5%, or vehicle cream (1:1:1). Up to 2 packets (250 mg each) were applied per dose once daily for two 2-week treatment cycles, separated by a 2-week, no-treatment interval. Efficacy was assessed 8 weeks post treatment (End of Study Visit [EOS]). Primary efficacy was complete clearance rate at EOS. Secondary efficacy endpoints included rate of partial clearance at EOS (≥ 75% reduction in AK lesions) and median % decrease in lesion count.
RESULTS: 479 subjects were enrolled (242 subjects Study 1 and 237 subjects Study 2). Complete clearance rates were 25.9% (Study 1), 45.6% (Study 2) and 23.5% (Study 1), 38.0% (Study 2) respectively in the 3.75% and 2.5% imiquimod groups compared to 2.5% (Study 1), 10.1% (Study 2) with vehicle (P<.001 vs vehicle). Partial clearance rates were 45.7% (Study 1), 73.4% (Study 2) and 42.0% (Study 1), 54.4% (Study 2) respectively in the 3.75% and 2.5% imiquimod groups at EOS compared to 18.8% (Study 1), 26.6% (Study 2) with vehicle (P=.001 and P<.001 respectively vs vehicle). Median lesion count reductions from baseline were and 72.7% (Study 1), 90.9% (Study 2) and 60.0% (Study 1), 76.5% (Study 2) respectively for imiquimod 3.75% and 2.5% compared to 21.1% (Study 1), 30.0% (Study 2) with vehicle (P<.001 vs vehicle). The difference in complete clearance rates (imiquimod minus vehicle), partial clearance and median reduction in lesion counts was 23.4% and 21.5% (Study 1) and 35.5% and 27.9% (Study 2), 26.9% and 23.2% (Study 1) and 46.8% and 27.8% (Study 2), and 51.6% and 38.9% (Study 1) and 60.9% and 46.5% (Study 2), respectively.
CONCLUSION: In 2 well-controlled Phase 3 studies, both imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% creams were more effective than vehicle cream when administered daily as a 2-week on/off/on regimen to treat AK.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Neil Swanson, MD; Department of Dermatology; Oregon Health and Science University; Portland, OR 97239. E-mail: swansonn@ ohsu.edu
CONFLICTS: N Swanson and J Jorizzo were investigators for Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals. N Swanson was a speaker for LEO Pharma Inc, and consultant for LEO Pharma Inc and Medicis. J Jorizzo was an advisor for Amgen, LEO Pharma Inc, and Warner Chilcott. T Lin is an employee of Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals.
Lebwohl MG,1 Berman B,2 Lin T,3
1Department of Dermatology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York;
2Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Florida;
3Medicis (a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals) Bridgewater, New Jersey
BACKGROUND: The approved imiquimod 5% cream regimen for treating actinic keratosis (AK) requires a long treatment course that is limited to a small area of the skin. Unfortunately, daily dosing to reduce the length of treatment course was not well-tolerated. More frequent dosing with lower concentrations may be a more realistic option.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety and tolerability of more frequent dosing with a lower concentration (3.75% and 2.5%) imiquimod cream for the treatment of the full face or balding scalp.
METHODS: Two identical multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled studies in adult subjects with 5 to 20 visible lesions, or palpable AKs in an area exceeding 25cm2 on either the face or balding scalp, randomized to imiquimod 3.75%, 2.5%, or vehicle cream (1:1:1). Up to 2 packets (250 mg each) were applied per dose once daily for two 2-week treatment cycles, separated by a 2-week, no-treatment interval. Safety assessments included visual assessment of local skin reaction (LSR), number and duration of study treatment rest periods required due to intolerant LSRs, adverse events (AEs) and clinical laboratory tests.
RESULTS: Most AEs were mild or moderate in intensity and unrelated to treatment. There were few treatment-related discontinuations. Two subjects in the imiquimod groups and 3 in the vehicle cream group discontinued due to AEs, only one of which (a moderate headache reported in the vehicle group) was considered treatment-related. Serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported in 12 subjects. Only one was considered treatment-related (severe diarrhea with 3.75% imiquimod). Reported LSRs (erythema being the most common) increased in a dose-dependent manner. The LSRsum AUCs for the 2.5% and 3.75% imiquimod treatment groups were significantly greater than for vehicle. Rest periods were taken by 5 (6.2%, Study 1) and 6 (7.6%, Study 2) in the imiquimod 2.5% groups, and 7 (8.6%, Study 1) and 10 (12.7%, Study 2) in the imiquimod 3.75% groups, and none of the subjects in the vehicle group.
CONCLUSION: In two well-controlled Phase 3 studies, both imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% creams were well tolerated when administered daily as a 2-week on/off/on regimen to treat AK.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Mark Lebwohl, MD; Department of Dermatology; Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New York, NY 10029. E-mail: lebwohl@aol.com
CONFLICTS: M Lebwohl was an investigator and consultant for Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals, and LEO Pharma Inc. T Lin is an employee of Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals. B Berman was a consultant and speaker for Medicis, LEO Pharma Inc. and PharmaDerm.
Nelson A,1 Ault K,2 Lin T,3 Tyring SK4
1Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles;
2Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia;
3Medicis (a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals) Bridgewater, New Jersey;
4Department of Dermatology, University of Texas Houston Medical School
BACKGROUND: The approved imiquimod 5% cream regimen for treating external genital warts (EGW) requires a long treatment. Unfortunately, daily dosing to reduce the length of treatment course resulted in a greater incidence and severity of local adverse events (AEs) without an improvement in efficacy.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of more frequent dosing with lower concentration (3.75% and 2.5%) imiquimod cream in treating EGW.
METHODS: Two identical multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled studies. Subjects (≥12 years old) with 2-30 EGWs and total wart area of ≥10 mm2 randomized to imiquimod 3.75%, imiquimod 2.5%, or placebo (2:2:1) once daily until complete clearance or a maximum of 8 weeks (end of treatment [EOT]), with a follow-up period of up to 8 weeks (end of study [EOS]) for subjects who did not achieve complete clearance by EOT; and a 12-week observational follow-up period in subjects with complete clearance at EOS. Primary efficacy endpoint was complete clearance (% subjects at EOS with zero EGW count). Secondary efficacy endpoints were rate of partial clearance (≥75% reduction in EGW count), change in wart count, and 12-week sustained clearance rate.
RESULTS: 981 subjects were enrolled (470 subjects in Study 1 and 511 subjects in Study 2). Complete clearance rates were 27.2% (Study 1), 29.4% (Study 2) and 19.1% (Study 1), 24.8% (Study 2) respectively in the 3.75% and 2.5% imiquimod groups compared to 10.3% (Study 1), 8.6% (Study 2) with placebo (P<.001 imiquimod 3.75% vs placebo). Partial clearance rates were 37.9% (Study 1), 38.7% (Study 2) and 27.0% (Study 1), 31.2% (Study 2) respectively compared to 13.4% (Study 1), 10.5% (Study 2) with placebo (P<.001 imiquimod 3.75% vs placebo). Mean lesion count reductions from baseline were 45.8% (Study 1), 40.9% (Study 2) and 26.6% (Study 1), 37.7% (Study 2) respectively for imiquimod 3.75% and 2.5% compared to 9.4% (both Study 1 and 2) for placebo (P<.001 versus placebo). 75.5% (Study 1) and 64.2% (Study 2) of subjects in the imiquimod 3.75% group achieved complete clearance at EOS that was sustained throughout the 12-week follow-up period, compared to 48.4% (Study 1) and 67.4% (Study 2) in the imiquimod 2.5% group.
CONCLUSION: In 2 well-controlled Phase 3 studies, both imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% creams were more effective than placebo when administered daily for up to 8 weeks to treat EGW. Imiquimod was most effective in terms of complete clearance and partial clearance rates.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Anita Nelson, MD; Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology; David Geffen School of Medicine; University of California; Los Angeles, CA 90095. Email: anitalnelson@earthlink.net
CONFLICTS: S Tyring was an investigator for Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals. S Tyring, A Nelson, and K Ault were consultants and/or advisory board members for Medicis. T Lin is an employee of Medicis.
Goldenberg G,1 Del Rosso JQ,2 Lin T,3 Nelson A4
1Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Department of Dermatology, New York, New York;
2Las Vegas Skin & Cancer Clinic, Nevada;
4Dermatology Laser Center of Maui, Kihei, Hawaii
OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety and tolerability of more frequent dosing with lower concentration (3.75% and 2.5%) imiquimod cream in treating EGW.
METHODS: Two identical multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled studies. Subjects (≥12 years old) with 2-30 EGWs and total wart area of ≥10 mm2 randomized to imiquimod 3.75%, imiquimod 2.5%, or placebo (2:2:1) once daily until complete clearance or a maximum of 8 weeks (end of treatment, EOT), with a follow-up period of up to 8 weeks (end of study, EOS) for subjects who did not achieve complete clearance by EOT; 12-week observational follow-up period in subjects with complete clearance by EOS. Safety assessments included visual assessment of local skin reaction (LSR), number and duration of study treatment rest periods required due to intolerant LSRs, adverse events (AEs) and clinical laboratory tests.
RESULTS: Most AEs were mild or moderate. The most frequently reported AEs were application site reactions observed in the active treatment groups. Treatment-emergent AEs that lead to study discontinuation were reported in 7, 10 and 1 subject in the imiquimod 3.75%, imiquimod 2.5%, and placebo groups. Eight subjects in the imiquimod groups withdrew because of application site reactions, considered related or possibly related to treatment. Treatment with either imiquimod strength resulted in greater increases in LSRs compared with the placebo. Erythema was reported with the greatest frequency and greatest mean intensity in all treatment groups. For both active creams, the number and severity of LSRs decreased rapidly after the completion of treatment. Rest periods were taken by 126, 104, and 4 subjects in the 3.75% imiquimod, 2.5% imiquimod, and placebo groups, respectively. The frequency, duration, and number of dosing days prior to the rest period were similar in the active treatment groups and lower in the placebo group. There was no evidence of clinically meaningful trends in vital sign measurements or clinical laboratory measurements.
CONCLUSION: In 2 well-controlled Phase 3 studies, both imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% creams were well tolerated when administered daily for up to 8 weeks to treat EGW.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Gary Goldenberg, MD; Mount Sinai School of Medicine; Department of Dermatology; New York, NY 10029. E-mail: garygoldenbergmd @gmail.com
CONFLICTS: J Del Rosso was a consultant, speaker, and/or researcher for Allergan, Bayer, Eisai, Galderma, Medicis, a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Onset Dermatologics, Obagi Medical Products, PharmaDerm, Primus, Promius, Ranbaxy, TriaBeauty, Unilever, and Warner-Chilcott; T Lin is an employee of Medicis; A Nelson was a consultant to Medicis.
Coronado D, Chanda S, Merchant T, Bu W, Zane LT
BACKGROUND: Onychomycosis causes nails to become thickened and discolored, often leading to social embarrassment. Individuals may wish to use nail polish to mask the appearance of infected nails due to onychomycosis. To be effective, topical antifungal medications must be able to penetrate through the nail plate and into the nail bed. tavaborole topical solution, 5% for the treatment of onychomycosis has demonstrated the ability to readily penetrate the nail plate.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the penetration of tavaborole topical solution, 5% through nail polish on fingernails obtained from human female cadavers.
METHODS: Five fingernails from 4 donors (N=20) were divided into 2 treatment groups. Two nails per donor received one coat of a commercial brand of nail polish. Another two nails per donor received no nail polish. One nail from each donor served as a non-dosed control. Tavaborole topical solution, 5% was applied to each nail (except the non-dosed control) once daily for 20 consecutive days using a positive placement pipette calibrated to deliver 12.5 uL/cm2 of solution. Using the Franz Finite dose model, drug penetration was measured by monitoring its rate of appearance in the receptor solution (Phosphate buffered saline) bathing the inner surface of the nail. Aliquots of the receptor solution samples were collected over the course of the study and analyzed for the presence of tavaborole using a qualified liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) cumulative penetration of tavaborole in the treatment group with nail polish was 3526 (1433) ug/cm2 compared to 2661 (1319) ug/cm2 in the treatment group with no nail polish. The penetration of tavaborole topical solution, 5% through nails with nail polish was not statistically different from penetration through nails without nail polish.
LIMITATIONS: This was an in vitro study.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate tavaborole topical solution, 5% was able to penetrate through one coat of a commercial brand of nail polish using an ex vivo human female fingernail model.
CONFLICTS: L Zane reports this study was sponsored by Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and that he and D Coronado, S Chanda, T Merchant, and W Bu are employees of the company.
Lovato P, Norsgaard H, Røpke M
BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder characterized by hyperproliferation of keratinocytes and dermal infiltration of neutrophils, dendritic cells (DC) and activated CD4+ T cells (Th1, Th17 and Th22) and CD8+ T cells (Tc1, Tc17 and Tc22), which secrete soluble messengers (eg, interleukin[IL]-17 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNFα]), that promote skin inflammation. Recent experimental and clinical data strongly suggest that IL-17, IL-23 and TNFα are central cytokines in driving the pathogenesis of psoriasis. The calcipotriene/betamethasone dipropionate 2-compound suspension is widely used for topical treatment of psoriasis vulgaris. However, the mechanism behind the high efficacy of this treatment has not been studied in detail.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate and compare the immune modulatory effects of betamethasone dipropionate (BDP), calcipotriene, and the calcipotriene/BDP combination on (1) IL-23 secretion by human DC; and (2) differentiation and activity of human Th17 and Tc17 cells in vitro.
METHODS: Cell cultures were treated with 100 nM calcipotriene, 1 mcM BDP, 100 nM calcipotriene/1 mcM betamethasone (ratio 1:10 as in the fixed-combination product) or a corresponding vehicle control (0.1% dimethyl sulfoxide). CD4+, CD8+ and CD14+ cells were isolated from peripheral blood of healthy volunteers and in vitro differentiated in Th17/Th1 (CD4+ T cells) and Tc17/Tc1 (CD8+ T cells) by culturing for 7 days in presence of anti-CD3 and CD28 Abs, IL-2 and differentiation cocktail (IL-1b, IL-6, IL-23, TGFb, and anti-IL-4 and anti-IL-13 Abs) and mature DC (CD14+ cells) by culturing for 7 days in presence of granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor, IL-4 and a combination of LPS and interferon-gamma (IFNγ). Treatment with test reagent was given either before or after differentiation in Th17/Th1, Tc1/Tc17 cells and mature DCs. Cell culture supernatants were analyzed for expression of IL-4, IL-5, IL10, IL13, IL-17A, IFNγ, TNFα, IL-22 and IL-23.
RESULTS: Compared to vehicle control or mono-treatments, the combination of calcipotriene and BDP strongly inhibited the expression of IL-23 by human DC and impacted both the differentiation and activity of human T cells. In particular, the 2 components were complementary in enhancing the immune modulatory activity affecting both maturation and biological functions by: (1) inhibition of IL-6, IL-23 and TNFα expression by BDP; (2) inhibition of IFNγ, IL-8, IL-17 and IL-22 expression by calcipotriene; (3) enhanced anti-inflammatory effect of BDP by calcipotriene; (4) reversal of steroid-mediated inhibition of IL-4, IL-5, IL-10 and IL-13 production by calcipotriene; (5) highly significant effect of calcipotriene in differentiating DC and T cells.
CONCLUSION: These data highlight the beneficial and complementary effects of calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate combination in suppressing the endogenous release of cytokines associated with psoriatic inflammation and in inducing an immune modulatory cytokine profile in contrast to the broader immunosuppressive effect observed with corticosteroid monotherapy.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Paolo Lovato, LEO Pharma A/SIndustriparken 55DK-2750 BallerupDanmark
CONFLICTS: P Lovato and H Norsgaard have nothing to disclose.
BACKGROUND: Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is a common skin disease with aging and increasing among younger ages in Asia. Although this is thought to be a non-modifiable disease due to the genetic factor, there are many modifiable factors we can manage.
OBJECTIVE: To make an innovative tool to assess the risk of AGA based on the Korean general population.
METHODS: For the reference, we selected articles by specific standard. Among the related studies that have shown odd ratio (OR), risk ratio (RR) or hazard ratio (HR), domestic was preferred. If the result did not have any sense in a domestic study, then we selected meaningful overseas articles showing similar trends and removed the OR from the domestic study. With respect to the risk factor, we excluded the risk factor if there was a large gap in the result between domestic and overseas studies.
RESULTS: We selected age, family history, alcohol intake, weight circumference, high blood pressure, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), ultraviolet (UV) exposure/protection for the risk factor. Additionally we included diabetes mellitus, number of childbirths, breast feeding period, oral contraceptive use for the risk factor of women. Among the risk factors, the OR of family history was 5.44 in men and 1.64 in women. And that of weight circumference, high blood pressure, HDL, UV exposure/protection were 1.37 (same in women), 1.14 (1.27 in women), 1.22 (1.27 in women), 1.87 (1.16 in women) respectively. Extracting mixed OR by multiplying the ORs of all the risk factors, we can quantify the risk of alopecia according to age.
LIMITATIONS: The references for the risk factor are not limited in the Korean general population due to the deficiency of research.
CONCLUSION: We can quantify the risk of alopecia and hope to manage this by correcting the modifiable factors. Further, this tool is expected to be used in health promotion centers.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: BeLong Cho; Seoul National University Hospital in Seoul, South Korea; Seoul National Univ. Hospital, 101, Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea; Seoul 110744. E-mail: belong.cho@gmail.com
CONFLICTS: E Choi has nothing to disclose.
Kircik L,1 Call R,2 Tschen E,3 Draelos ZD,4 Van Syoc M,5 Zane LT,5 Hebert AA,6
1DermResearch, PLLC, Louisville, Kentucky;
2Clinical Research Partners, LLC, Henrico, Virginia;
3Academic Dermatology Associates, Albuquerque, New Mexico;
4Dermatology Consulting Services, High Point, North Carolina;
6Dermatology Clinical Research Unit, University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston
BACKGROUND: AN2728 is a novel boron-based compound that inhibits phosphodiesterase-4 activity and reduces the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines that may be associated with atopic dermatitis (AD).
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this open-label, maximal-use study was to evaluate the systemic exposure, pharmacokinetics, and safety of AN2728 topical ointment, 2% applied twice daily for 28 days for the treatment of AD in children and adolescents.
METHODS: The study enrolled 34 subjects with mild to moderate AD, defined as a score of 2 (mild) or 3 (moderate) on the 5-point investigator's Static Global Assessment (ISGA) scale in 3 patient cohorts based on age and minimum percent of treatable body surface area (%BSA) affected: 2-5 years old (>35%), 6-11 years old (>35%) and 12-17 years old (>25%). During the first 8 days when pharmacokinetic assessments were performed, subjects were dosed in the clinic; dosing was performed at home thereafter. Disease severity was measured using ISGA (0, clear to 4, severe), signs/symptoms score (0, none to 3, severe) and %BSA affected.
RESULTS: At Day 29, 65% of subjects achieved ISGA scores of clear or almost clear and 47% of subjects achieved scores of clear or almost clear with a >2-grade improvement from baseline. Marked reductions from baseline were observed across all the individual signs and symptoms of AD (Pruritus, erythema, lichenification, excoriation and exudation) throughout the treatment period. Notably, mean pruritus scores improved by approximately 60% from baseline as early as 5 days into treatment. The mean %BSA affected decreased by an average of 78% across all subjects after 4 weeks of treatment. The most common treatment-related adverse events were application site reactions (occurring in 12 subjects) which generally were mild or moderate in severity and resolved spontaneously. One patient withdrew from the study due to application site pain. Pharmacokinetic results demonstrated low blood levels of AN2728 similar to those previously observed in adults after adjusting for %BSA treated.
LIMITATIONS: This was an open-label study.
CONCLUSION: These results generated under maximal-use conditions suggest that AN2728 topical ointment, 2% may be safe and effective in subjects 2 years of age and older with mild to moderate AD.
CONFLICTS: L Zane reports that this study was sponsored by Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and that he and M Van Syoc are employees of the company.
Goren A, Salafia A, McCoy J, Keene S, Lotti T
Applied Biology, Inc.; Irvine, California
BACKGROUND: In today's environment of shrinking reimbursement and coverage for many health care procedures, phototherapy for psoriasis has experienced a major decline. Once hailed as the cornerstone of psoriasis therapy, the increasing cost and demanding treatment regimen has resulted in poor compliance, limiting access to this safe and effective mode of treatment.
OBJECTIVE: Here we report on the development of a topical cream that selectively filters solar radiation to deliver narrow-band UVB for the treatment of psoriasis. This cream was evaluated in a pilot clinical study.
METHODS: We performed a double-blind placebo-controlled study of 15 patients. The patients were randomly assigned to either the treatment arm or the placebo arm. The placebo was a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of 2. The SPF of the placebo was chosen to represent the theoretically modeled SPF of the novel cream derived from UV absorption data. During each treatment session, patients were exposed to natural sunlight outside the principal investigator's clinic. The duration of each session was determined by a minimal erythemal dose (MED) chart taking into account each patient's skin type and the UV index at the time of treatment. During treatment, each patient applied an arm-assigned cream (drug or placebo) to the treated lesion area and a broadband SPF 50 sunscreen to the non-lesion exposed areas. Global photography of each treated lesion was taken at the beginning and end of the treatment sessions. The lesion surface area changes were derived by blinded photography assessment.
RESULTS: After an average of 38 sessions, all patients in the treatment arm responded to therapy. In particular, 43% of the treatment group experienced complete clearance and the remainder experienced at a minimum 50% lesion clearance. In contrast, none of the patients in the placebo arm experienced more then 20% lesion clearance.
CONCLUSION: Our preliminary results demonstrate that the novel topical cream could provide a safe, effective, and convenient alternative to artificial light phototherapy.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Andy Goren MD; Applied Biology, Inc.; 17780 Fitch STE 192; Irvine, CA 92614. E-mail: andyg@appliedbiology.com
CONFLICTS: Applied Biology, Inc. developed Photocil, the drug evaluated in this clinical trial.
Kircik L,1 Winkelman W2
1Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, New York;
BACKGROUND: Adapalene-benzoyl peroxide (A-BPO) (stabilized in the Simulgel vehicle ) gel 0.1%/2.5% has demonstrated effectiveness in the treatment of acne vulgaris in several clinical trials.
OBJECTIVE: To further describe the tolerability of this treatment, data were analyzed from several clinical studies that investigated the effectiveness and safety of A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5%.
METHODS: Data from 14 studies were pooled to evaluate the tolerability of A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5% gel among acne subjects. A total of 2,358 subjects between 9 years and 61 years old were treated with A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5%. Frequency, percentages, and worst postbaseline scores were summarized for dryness, erythema, scaling, and stinging/burning.
RESULTS: Most subjects experienced a worst postbaseline score of none or mild, 83.2% for dryness, 78.6% for erythema, 86.1% for scaling, and 76.8% for stinging/burning. Two percent or fewer subjects had a severe score for dryness, erythema, and scaling, and less than 5% of subjects had a severe score for stinging/burning. Fewer than 2% of subjects discontinued due to an adverse event. Even subjects with moderate and severe scores for the tolerability endpoints had improved IGA scores from baseline to week 4.
CONCLUSION: In this large pooled analysis, A-BPO gel 0.1%/2.5% was well tolerated and provided benefit even in subjects who had a less favorable tolerability profile. KEYWORDS: Acne vulgaris, adapalene, benzoyl peroxide, tolerability
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Warren Winkelman, MD, MBA, PhD; Galderma Laboratories, L.P.; 14501 North Freeway; Fort Worth, TX 76177; warren.winkelman@galderma.com
Lambert J,1 Griekspoor M,2 Vink J3
1Department of Dermatology, Ghent University Hospital, Belgium;
2LEO Pharma BV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands;
3Department of Dermatology, Medical Centrum Haaglanden, Westeinde Hospital, The Hague, The Netherlands
BACKGROUND: PRO-long is a long-term, 52-week study of calcipotriol and betamethasone dipropionate (CBD) suspension and ointment formulations for the treatment of psoriasis vulgaris.
OBJECTIVE: To describe patients' perspectives on the 2 formulations, in terms of adherence behavior, treatment satisfaction, disease severity, and health-related quality of life, during psoriasis management in daily clinical practice.
METHODS: This multicenter, prospective, observational, 52-week, cohort study recruited 275 patients who were prescribed CBD suspension or CBD ointment for the long-term management of psoriasis. The primary end point, difference in effectiveness between CBD suspension and CBD ointment, was assessed by the number of patients with controlled (mild or very mild) disease, based on the Patient Global Assessment (PaGA) questionnaire, at week 12. In addition, questionnaires were used to assess adherence behavior, treatment satisfaction (9-item Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication [TSQM-9]) and health-related quality of life (Skindex-29). Here we report interim results collected at 4 and 12 weeks.
RESULTS: Data from 156 patients (39.7% female, 60.3% male), median age 48 (11-77) years, were analyzed. At baseline, the percentage of patients (mean [SD]), with controlled disease was 30% (44.8%) in the CBD ointment group (n=67) and 45% (50.6%) in the CBD suspension group (n=89). At week 4 (secondary end point) and week 12 (primary end point), there were no statistically significant differences in effectiveness between the groups at these time points, respectively: CBD suspension (57% [64%] and 64% [72%]) and CBD ointment (38% [57%] and 44% [66%]). Significantly more patients had controlled disease by weeks 4 and 12, compared with baseline, in both treatment cohorts: CBD suspension at week 4 (P=.01) and week 12 (P=.0003); CBD ointment at week 4 (P=.03) and week 12 (P=.002). Although the majority of patients in both cohorts reported that application was "never" or "rarely" too great a burden, 10.2% of ointment-treated patients considered it "often" or "always" too great a burden, compared with 3.9% of suspension-treated patients. The proportion of patients spending less than 5 minutes per day applying the treatments was 85.7% in the suspension-treated group and 71.2% in the ointment-treated group. Treatment satisfaction was higher for patients treated with suspension compared with ointment across all TSQM-9 domains at weeks 4 and 12, particularly in the items measuring time, use, planning, and application of treatments.
CONCLUSION: This first real-life study, comparing CBD suspension and CBD ointment, revealed no significant differences in patient-reported effectiveness between the 2 treatments. In single items of the treatment satisfaction and adherence questionnaires, patients showed a preference for the gel and considered it convenient, easy to use, and fast to apply.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: J. Lambert, Department of Dermatology, Ghent University Hospital, Belgium. E-mail: jo.lambert@ugent.be
CONFLICTS: J Lambert has no conflicts to report.
Feldman S,1 Winkelman W,2 Baum E3
2Galderma Laboratories, L.P., Fort Worth, Texas;
3Department of Dermatology, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
BACKGROUND: Early response to topical therapy, especially for pruritus, may be one important motivator to ensure adherence of patients to their full course of therapy.
OBJECTIVE: Clobetasol propionate 0.05% (CP) spray has demonstrated response in clinical trials after 1 week of therapy.
METHODS: Two phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, parallel-group, comparative studies; men or women, 18 years of age and older, with plaque psoriasis affecting at least 2% body surface area; overall disease severity (ODS) of 3 (moderate) or 4 (severe/very severe); Endpoints: Primary efficacy endpoint: ODS on a 5 point scale (0 = clear, 4 = severe/very severe); Secondary efficacy endpoints: pruritus, plaque elevation, erythema, and scaling on 5 point scales (0 = clear, 4 = severe/very severe); Data modeled using a generalized linear model with the week 4 result as the dependent variable and the week 1 result and treatment as independent variables
RESULTS: Subjects on CP spray whose week 1 ODS or pruritus score was at most mild were treatment successes (clear or almost clear) at week 4. A negligible number of vehicle-treated patients demonstrated a response at both week 1 and week 4 for either ODS or pruritus. Pruritus and disease severity responses to CP spray at 1 week predicted treatment success in both pruritus and the overall disease severity at 4 weeks.
LIMITATIONS: This was a post hoc analysis, which would be confirmed using a prospective study
CONCLUSION: Pruritus and disease severity responses to CP spray at 1 week predicted treatment success in both pruritus and the overall disease severity at 4 weeks.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Warren Winkelman, MD; Galderma Laboratories, L.P.; 14501 North Freeway; Fort Worth, TX 76177. E-mail: warren.winkelman@galderma.com
Rodriguez DA,1 Rendon MI,2 Burk C,3 Kawata AK,4 Degboe A,5 Wilcox TK,4 Daniels SR,5 Roberts WE6
1Dermatology Associates and Research, Coral Gables, Florida;
2Rendon Center for Dermatology and Aesthetic Medicine, Boca Raton, Florida;
3Health Outcomes Consultant, Laguna Beach, California;
4Evidera, Bethesda, Maryland;
5Allergan, Inc., Irvine, California;
6Generational and Cosmetic Dermatology, Rancho Mirage, California
BACKGROUND: Acne vulgaris is a frequently encountered externally visible skin disease in dermatology. Although acne has traditionally been treated homogeneously across skin types, acne characteristics can vary across racial and ethnic backgrounds and special considerations may be needed in treating various colors of skin. A broader understanding of racial/ethnic variations of acne characteristics in adult females will help to improve treatment outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: To compare racial differences in acne onset, acne severity, and facial acne location in adult female acne (AFA).
METHODS: A cross-sectional, web-based survey was administered in 2011 (cohort 1) and 2013 (cohort 2) to a diverse sample of United States adult females (25–45 years) with acne (≥25 visible facial pimples). Survey outcomes included sociodemographic and clinical characteristics, perceptions, coping behaviors, and special needs for acne care and treatment (skin of color only). The current study combines data from both cohorts to explore differences in acne characteristics between White and non-White adult females. Descriptive statistics summarized results by racial group; Student's t-test and chi-square analyses evaluated racial differences (White vs non-White).
RESULTS: A total of 312 females with acne completed the survey (mean age 35±6 years), comprised of White (n=107) and non-White (n=205; Black [n=96], Hispanic [n=55], Asian [n=31], and Other [n=23]). Mean age of acne onset (White 14.8±5 years vs non-White 17.1±8 years, P<.05) and concern for acne (16.6±7 vs 19.2±9 years, P<.05) occurred earlier in White than non-White females. The most frequent concerns among both Whites and Non-Whites were both pimples and postinflammatory hyper-pigmentation (PIH, 63.6% and 67.8%). Facial acne presented most often on the cheeks (30.8 %) and chin (28.0%) for Whites and the cheeks (56.1%) and forehead (18.0%) for non-White females. Beyond the face, Whites experienced more acne on the chest (46.7% vs 30.2%, P<.01) and on other body parts (21.5% vs 12.7%, P<.05) than non-White females. White females more often reported at least a moderate amount of redness (in the past 4 weeks) from facial acne (74.8% vs 57.5%, P<.05) compared to non-White females; however they less frequently reported at least a moderate amount of scarring (54.2% vs 68.3%, P<.05) and dark marks (48.7% vs 68.3%, P<.01) in the past 4 weeks than non-Whites.
LIMITATIONS: Limitations included potential selection bias due to web-based data collection methodology; use of targeted sampling, use of self-reported clinical information, and potential response bias due to current acne severity (overall acne severity may have differed from time of screening). Enrollment was also limited to females who self-reported ≥25 visible facial lesions, excluding milder cases and limiting the generalizability of conclusions to all forms of AFA severity.
CONCLUSION: Self-reported clinical characteristics of facial AFA varied with race. Onset of acne in White females began significantly earlier and was considered more troublesome than for non-White females. Non-Whites expressed more concern about PIH than Whites. These results may help inform clinicians about racial differences in clinical presentation of facial AFA, increase awareness of specific needs of non-White females, and guide treatment recommendations.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: David A. Rodriguez; Dermatology Associates and Research; 1301 Ponce de Leon Blvd; Coral Gables, FL 33134. E-mail: darmd1@aol.com
CONFLICTS: Declaration of funding: This study was sponsored by Allergan, Inc.; Declaration of financial/other relationships: D Rodriguez. has nothing to disclose. M Rendon has an industry relationship with Allergan, Inc. C Burk is a consultant for Allergan, Inc. A Kawata and T Wilcox are employees of Evidera. The research and medical writing conducted by Evidera for this abstract were funded by Allergan, Inc. A Degbo and S Daniels are employees of Allergan Inc. W Roberts has industry relationships with Allergan, L'Oreal, La Roche Posay, MelaScience, Neostrata, Theraplex, and Top MD.
Stein-Gold L,1 Spelman L,2 Spellman MC,3 Hughes M,4 Zane LT4
1Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan;
2Queensland Institute of Dermatology, Queensland, Australia;
3Private Practice, San Francisco, California;
4Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Palo Alto, California
BACKGROUND: AN2728 is a novel oxaborole compound and phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor with anti-inflammatory activity.
OBJECTIVE: A clinical dose-ranging study was conducted to determine the safety and efficacy of AN2728 topical ointment, 2% and 0.5%, administered once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID), in the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis (AD) in adolescents.
METHODS: This multi-center, randomized, double-blind, bilateral, dose-ranging, phase 2 study enrolled 86 patients (40% male) aged 12-17 years with AD involving up to 35% of their body surface area. Enrolled patients had 2 target lesions of similar severity based on AD severity index (ADSI) score of 6-12, a maximum 1 -point difference in ADSI score between the 2 lesions, and an erythema subscore of at least 2 (moderate). The index comprises the sum of scores ranging from 0 (none) to 3 (severe) for erythema, pruritus, exudation, excoriation, and lichenification. Patients were randomly assigned to a QD or BID treatment frequency. In addition, patients treated one target lesion with AN2728 topical ointment, 2% and the other with AN2728 topical ointment, 0.5%. Patients were evaluated on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. Disease severity was determined based on the ADSI score on days 8, 15, 22, and 29. The primary endpoint was the change from baseline in ADSI score.
RESULTS: AN2728 topical ointment, 2% and 0.5%, were found to be generally safe and well-tolerated. No serious adverse events (AEs) were reported, and no treatment discontinuation occurred due to AEs. Application site symptoms were uncommon. Based on improved ADSI scores relative to baseline, a clear dose-response was seen across the 4 dosing regimens. The greatest improvement in ADSI score was noted with treatment with AN2728 topical ointment, 2% BID, which yielded a 71% improvement in ADSI score from baseline after 28 days, with 62% of lesions in this treatment group achieving total or partial clearance. This treatment group also demonstrated the greatest improvement across all 5 signs and symptoms of AD after 28 days, including a notable 79% reduction in pruritus severity.
CONCLUSION: Of the 4 dosing regimens examined in this Phase 2 study of adolescents with AD, AN2728 topical ointment, 2% BID produced the greatest improvements in disease severity and was generally safe and well tolerated.
CONFLICTS: L Zane reports this study was sponsored by Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and that he and M Hughes are employees of the company.
BACKGROUND: Store-and-forward teledermatology is an emerging technology with the potential to initiate a paradigm shift in how patients and health care providers (HCPs) interact. Ubiquitous devices, such as tablets and smartphones, may provide a simple medium to facilitate such interactions.
METHODS: Twenty-eight subjects aged 18 years and older with plaque psoriasis affecting up to 20% body surface area were enrolled for the study. Subjects applied CPS twice-daily to a target lesion for 15 days. Target lesion severity was assessed using the target lesion numeric rating scale (TL-NRS; 0 [none] to 10 [very severe]) and effectiveness scores were assessed on a scale of 0 (none) to 4 (very severe) including erythema/redness, plaque elevation/thickness, scaling, and pruritus/itching assessed on a scale of 0 (none) to 3 (severe). Subjects were asked a treatment satisfaction questionnaire during the study.
RESULTS: Investigator and subject reported TL-NRS scores and effectiveness scores improved from baseline to day 15. Subjects indicated a high satisfaction with CPS. Four related adverse events were reported during the study and were all mild in severity. Very few technological failures were reported during the study.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, the results of this study indicate that CPS is a safe and effective treatment for plaque psoriasis and support the use of a tablet-based rating scale to measure and track disease progression.
Berman B,1,2 Goldenberg G,3 Hanke CW,4 Tyring SK,5 Werschler WP,7 Knudsen KM,7 Goncalves J,8 Larsson T,7 Swanson N9
1University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Florida;
2Center for Clinical and Cosmetic Research, Aventura, FL, USA;
3Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA;
4St. Vincent Hospital, Indianapolis, and the Laser & Skin Surgery Center of Indiana, Carmel, IN, USA;
5University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, TX, USA;
6Department of Medicine/Dermatology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA;
7LEO Pharma A/S, Ballerup, Denmark;
8LEO Pharma Inc, Parsippany, NJ, USA;
BACKGROUND: Cryosurgery effectively treats individual lesions of actinic keratosis (AK), yet recurrence rates are high, and the treatment does not address field cancerization of perilesional skin.
OBJECTIVE: To compare complete clearance of AK lesions using cryotherapy followed by field treatment with ingenol mebutate (IngMeb) compared with cryotherapy and vehicle gel. The 12-month efficacy results from our study evaluating sequential treatment of AKs on the face and scalp with cryosurgery followed by IngMeb 0.015% gel vs cryosurgery and vehicle gel are presented.
METHODS: This was a phase 3, multicenter, randomized, two-arm, parallel-group, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, 12-month study (NCT01541553). Patients with 4–8 clinically, typical, and discrete AKs within a contiguous 25-cm2 treatment area on the face or scalp were enrolled, and received liquid nitrogen cryosurgery to all visible AKs. Patients were randomized to field treatment with IngMeb 0.015% gel or vehicle gel once daily for 3 consecutive days. Three weeks after cryosurgery, field treatment was applied to patients in both groups. The primary endpoint was complete clearance of AKs in the treatment area at week 11. Secondary endpoints were percentage reduction in the total number of AKs and partial clearance rate (=75%) of AKs across the period from week 11 to 12 months. Patients who withdrew early were classified as non-responders.
RESULTS: A total of 329 patients (80.5% with face and 19.5% with scalp lesions) were randomized to IngMeb 0.015% gel (n=167) or vehicle (n=162) gel following cryosurgery. These patients were all white, predominantly male (82.4%), and had a median age of 67 years (range 34–89); most had Fitzpatrick skin type I (15.2%) or II (48%). In total, 92% completed 11 weeks and 88% concluded the 12-month period. Complete clearance rates were greater with IngMeb compared with vehicle for all lesions at 11 weeks (60.5% vs 49.4%; P=.04) and 12 months (30.5% vs 18.5%; P=.01). The relative complete AK clearance achieved by 11 weeks increased at 12 months in the IngMeb group, from a relative ratio of 1.22 (1.01–1.49) to 1.67 (1.12–2.50). In the treatment area surrounding the frozen lesions, only 38.9% of patients experienced new emerging lesions in the IngMeb-treated field, while in the vehicle group, 51.9% of patients had new lesions emerging from previously not visible subclinical lesions (P=.01). The mean percent reduction of AKs at 12 months was significantly higher with IngMeb for all lesions (59.5% vs 44.4%; P=.004) than with vehicle. Over 12 months, partial (≥75%) AK clearance rates also improved significantly with IngMeb for all lesions (50.9% vs 37%; P=.01).
CONCLUSION: Sequential topical treatment with IngMeb 0.015% gel following cryosurgery significantly enhanced the efficacy of cryosurgery, with a more pronounced relative benefit at 12 months. This difference is derived both from enhancing the effect of cryosurgery with IngMeb on the visible baseline lesions and from a field treatment effect of IngMeb on subclinical lesions not visible at baseline.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Brian Berman, MD, PhD; Center for Clinical and Cosmetic Research; 2925 Aventura Blvd., #205; Aventura, FL 33180. E-mail: bberman@med.miami.edu.
CONFLICTS: B Berman reports grants from LEO, during the conduct of the study; grants and personal fees from LEO, grants and personal fees from Medicis, personal fees from Pharmaderm, grants and personal fees from DUSA, outside the submitted work.
Lesiak A,1 Sobolewska-Sztychny D,1 Sobjanek M,2 Rogowski-Tylman M1
1Department of Dermatology and Veneorology, Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland;
2Department of Dermatology, Veneorology and Alergology, Medical University od Gdansk, Poland
BACKGROUND: A recent increase in the frequency of non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSC), which include basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), has been observed in the United States, Europe, and Australia. Despite low mortality, NMSC is a major medical, social and economic problem. Sonic hedgehog (Shh) pathway impairment plays a key role in BCC pathogenesis, which is the most frequent skin tumor among Caucasians, estimated between 18%-40%. In our previous studies the role of SHH, PTCH and SMO genes polymorphisms were determined in 142 BCC cases and 142 controls of Polish origin.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to clarify the role of SHH signaling in skin BCC, the expression of SHH, PTCH1 and SMO.
METHODS: We assessed single nucleotide polymorphisms with the use of the PCR-RFLP method. The expression of SHH, PTCH1 and SMO were examined in 42 sporadic nodular skin basal cell carcinoma and 15 control healthy skin by Western blot.
RESULTS: All the biopsies revealed the expression of the SHH, PTCH1 and SMO proteins. Their levels were significantly higher in BCC specimens than in the control skin (median 3.4x105 IDV vs median 3.1x105 IDV for SHH; median 2.5x105 IDV vs median 2.0x105 IDV for PTCH1; and median 2.9x105 IDV vs median 1.5x105 IDV for SMO; P<.05 for all comparisons). Additionally when the level of expression of the examined proteins was correlated with the selected polymorphisms, the BCC patients with the AT genotype SHH rs104894040 349T/C gene polymorphism had significantly higher expression of SHH compared with TT carriers (median 3,69x105 IDV vs 3,25x105 IDV; P<.05). When analyzing PTCH, the BCC patients who were TT carriers of the PTCH1 rs41313327 2350C/T gene polymorphisms had a higher expression of PTCH1 protein (median 3.31x105 IDV) than patients with the CT genotype (median 2.4x105IDV; P<.05). BCC patients carrying GG genotype in SMO rs41303402 385G/A in polymorphism had higher SMO expression than AA genotype carriers (median 3,3x105 IDV vs 2,9x105IDV, P<.05).
CONCLUSION: The obtained results underline the role SHH pathway in BCC development among central European Caucasians and confirm their role as therapeutic targets for future BCC treatment regimens.
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Aleksandra Lesiak, Department of Dermatology and Veneorology, Plac Hallera 1, 90-467 Lodz, Poland. E-mail: Lesiak_ola@interia.pl
CONFLICTS: The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose. 1085-5629/13$-see front matter © 2014 Frontline Medical Communications DOI: 10.12788/j.sder.0065
Knowledge and uncertainty in Lyme disease detection: an evidence-based activism research study in the UK
For now, the only prevention lies in avoiding tick contact but one company, Valneva, is working fervently to develop what they believe will be the world ’s first vaccine against Lyme’s disease. (Source: Forbes.com Healthcare News)
