Sanofi Egypt gets approval for registering Dupixent for Dermatitis & Asthma
Leave a Comment / Daily Medical Advice & Updates, Medicine / By Wessam Darwish
1. Sanofi Egypt gets approval for registering Dupixent for Dermatitis & Asthma
1.1. What is Dupixent ?
1.2. What is the Active Ingredient in Dupixent ?
1.3. What is the Mechanism of Action of Dupixent ?
1.3.1. Dupixent and Pregnancy
1.3.2. Dupixent and Breastfeeding
1.3.3. What is the dose of Dupixent ?
1.3.4. Asthma
1.3.5. Atopic Dermatitis
1.3.6. Does it Cure eczema and dermatitis ?
1.3.7. Is Dupixent an immunosuppressant ?
1.3.8. How to use Dupixent ?
1.3.8.1. What are the side effects of Dupixent ?
1.3.8.2. What is the Price of Dupixent in Egypt ?
1.3.8.3. See Also
1.3.8.4. Patient Leaflet
1.3.8.5. References
Sanofi Egypt is the first company in Africa to obtain approval from Egyptian Drug Authority for registering Dupixent as treatment for atopic dermatitis and severe uncontrolled asthma.
The General Manager of Sanofi Egypt said "this approval represents a new hope for patients suffering atopic dermatitis and severe uncontrolled asthma." Let's get to know more about Dupixent, therapeutic uses, side effects, dose and more from this article.
What is Dupixent ?
Dupixent 300 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe.
It treats moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) that cannot be controlled with topical medicines applied to the skin. It treats eczema in adults and children at least 6 years old.
Dupixent is also used together with other medications to treat moderate-to-severe asthma that is not controlled with other asthma medicines. It is used for asthma in adults and children at least 12 years old.
It is used only in adults to treat a condition called chronic rhinosinusitis (long-term sinus inflammation) that is associated with nasal polyps.
What is the Active Ingredient in Dupixent ?
What is the Mechanism of Action of Dupixent ?
When using Dupixent in women with poorly or moderately controlled asthma, evidence demonstrates there is an increased risk of preeclampsia in mother and prematurity. Low birth weight, and small for gestational age in the neonate as well. Level of asthma control should be closely monitored in pregnant women and treatment adjusted as necessary to maintain optimal control.
There are no data on presence of dupilumab in human milk, effects on breastfed infant. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue dupilumab therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the mother.
What is the dose of Dupixent ?
The recommended dose of DUPIXENT for adults and adolescents (12 years of age and older) is:
an initial dose of 400 mg (two 200 mg injections) followed by 200 mg given every other week or
an initial dose of 600 mg (two 300 mg injections) followed by 300 mg given every other week
for patients with oral corticosteroids-dependent asthma, or with co-morbid moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis for which DUPIXENT is indicated, start with an initial dose of 600 mg followed by 300 mg given every other week
The recommended dose of DUPIXENT for adults
The recommended dose of DUPIXENT for adult patients is an initial dose of 600 mg (two 300 mg injections), followed by 300 mg given every other week (Q2W).
Dose of DUPIXENT for Subcutaneous Administration in Pediatric Patients (6 to 17 Years of Age)
15 to less than 30 kg 600 mg (two 300 mg injections) 300 mg every 4 weeks (Q4W)
30 to less than 60 kg 400 mg (two 200 mg injections) 200 mg every other week (Q2W)
60 kg or more 600 mg (two 300 mg injections) 300 mg every other week (Q2W)
Does it Cure eczema and dermatitis ?
dupilumab is not a cure for eczema; however, it does effectively reduce symptoms in the majority of people prescribed it, such as:
Is Dupixent an immunosuppressant ?
No, Dupixent (dupilumab) is not an immunosuppressant or a steroid. Dupixent works by targeting a type of protein called an interleukin, that is involved in inflammation. Dupixent calms an overreactive immune system but it does not suppress the immune system. This leads to fewer and less severe symptoms of chronic inflammatory conditions, such as atopic dermatitis or asthma.
How to use Dupixent ?
You can inject the Dupixent pre-filled syringe into your thigh or stomach, except for the 2 inches (5 cm) around your belly button. If a caregiver injects the dose, they can also use the outer area of the upper arm.
Lay the Dupixent Syringe on a flat surface and let it naturally warm to room temperature for at least 30 minutes (for the 200 mg syringe) or 45 minutes (for the 300 mg syringe). Do not heat the syringe or place in direct sunlight.
Before injection, wash your hands well with soap and water. Pinch a fold of skin at the injection site (thigh or stomach, except 2 inches around your belly button, or outer area of the upper arm if injected by your caregiver). Insert the needle completely into the fold of the skin at about a 45° angle.
• eye pain or discomfort
• watery eyes (your eyes may be more sensitive to light)
• pain, swelling, burning, or irritation where an injection was given.
• eye redness or itching, puffy eyelids
• sleep problems (insomnia).
• cold sores or fever blisters on your lips or in your mouth.
What is the Price of Dupixent in Egypt ?
It costs around 3354 US dollars. We are not sure of the price here in Egypt in Egyptian Pounds. But once we are sure we'll update it here as soon as possible.
The Schmidt Firm, PLLC is currently accepting claims in all 50 states for those who used AMO Complete MoisturePlus and have developed Acanthamoeba Keratitis. If you or somebody you know has used AMO Complete MoisturePlus and developed Acanthamoeba Keratitis, you should contact our firm immediately for a free case consultation. Please click here to contact our Product Liability Litigation Group, use the form below or call toll free 24 hours a day at 866-920-0753.
Beyaz is a new type of birth control pill that combines two hormones with a folate B-vitamin, which reduces the risk of birth defects when women accidentally get pregnant. One side effect of Beyaz is gallbladder disease and gallstones. Even young women who haven no history of gallbladder disease or risk factors have suffered from this severe Beyaz side effect. Around half of women with Beyaz gallbladder disease require surgery to have the gallbladder removed.
Beyaz is an oral contraceptive (“the pill”) that uses a combination of synthetic hormones to reduce the risk of pregnancy. Beyaz is one among several “fourth generation” birth control pills to contain a new type of synthetic hormone called drospirenone, a synthetic form of progestin. Beyaz also contains synthetic estrogen, called ethinyl estradiol.
Beyaz contains the same amount of progestin and estrogen as Yaz birth control pills, but Beyaz also contains an added folate B-vitamin supplement. The reason Beyaz contains this supplement is to reduce the risk of birth defects just in case a woman accidentally gets pregnant when she is taking Beyaz.
Experts know that many women do not take birth control pills exactly as directed. To be most effective, pill users must take Beyaz once a day, at the same time, every day. Many women miss doses or do not take the pill at a consistent time. Around 9 per 100 of these women get pregnant. Experts also know that most neural tube birth defects occur because the mother has low levels of folate just before pregnancy. Beyaz reduces the risk of these birth defects.
Experts have associated excess levels of hormones with an increased risk of gallstones and gallbladder disease. Women have at least double the risk compared to a man. Women frequently take hormonal birth control pills, undergo hormone replacement therapy, or get pregnant and have excessively high levels of estrogen in their system.
Gallbladder disease and gallstones are a known side effect of Beyaz, but no one knows exactly how Beyaz causes this disease. There are several theories. One is that birth control pills are a mild diuretic, and prolonged use of diuretic medications is associated with gallbladder disease. It is possible that Beyaz reduces the flow of bile from the gallbladder; retention of bile in the gallbladder can cause inflammation. It is also possible that Beyaz increases the amount of calcified cholesterol that accumulates in the gallbladder and forms gallstones.
Gallbladder disease occurs when the gallbladder becomes inflamed. Sudden, acute attacks of gallbladder inflammation are called gallbladder attacks, and they can cause extreme abdominal pain that lasts for several minutes or several hours.
The gallbladder is a digestive organ. It is located on the right side of the body, just under the ribcage. It’s primary purpose is to collect bile produced by the liver, remove water from the bile to concentrate it, and then release the bile (and other enzymes collected from the pancreas) into the intestines. Bile helps to emulsify and digest fats.
One of the most common causes of gallbladder disease is gallstones. Gallstones are usually composed of accretions of calcified particles of cholesterol. They can also be formed from other particles in the gallbladder. These accretions may be the size of a grain of sand or as large as a golfball. When gallstones are very large, it is usually necessary to have the gallbladder removed.
Gallstones often grow silently, with no symptoms, until the gallstone is large enough to cause problems with gallbladder function. Beyaz gallbladder disease may not be suspected or diagnosed early, because Beyaz users are often young women, who have no history of the disease or risk factors. When gallbladder disease is diagnosed, around half of people will require surgery to remove the gallbladder.
Gallbladder attacks — pain that lasts for several minutes or hours. This pain may only occur at night. The pain may spread to the back, shoulder, or arm.
Exercise Is Cancer Medicine, Says Global Coalition |
Current oncology practice is «failing those diagnosed with cancer» with regard to prescribing exercise, says a call-to-action report from a global coalition of 40 leaders from 17 organizations, spearheaded by the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM).
«A drug with similar benefit would likely be prescribed broadly,» write the authors, led by Kathryn Schmitz, PhD, MPH, of Penn State Cancer Institute, Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Exercise prescriptions should now be standard of care for all appropriate oncology patients and physical activity «should become a vital sign, similar to blood pressure,» recorded at each patient visit, the authors argue.
The authors provide a two-question, assess-advise-refer algorithm, which they say «does not require much time or skill by the oncology clinician.»
«We are now at a point where we have more evidence in the area of exercise oncology than we had for heart disease [to become standard of care],» said Schmitz. «It's time to speak with one voice; it's time for a paradigm shift in cancer care.»
Since the last ACSM roundtable in 2010, more than 2500 randomized-controlled exercise trials in cancer have been published. These were accompanied by calls for «exercise as medicine» from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, the American College of Surgeons, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, Exercise and Sports Science Australia (ESSA), and other organizations.
There are two questions in the assess-advise-refer algorithm. The first is: «How many days during the past week have you performed physical activity where your heart beasts faster and your breathing is harder than normal for 30 minutes or more?»
And the second is: «How many days during the past week have you performed physical activity to increase muscle strength, such as lifting weights?»
Clinicians then ask themselves: «Would this patient be safe exercising without medical supervision?»
Finally, if possible, the clinician should refer such patients to the «best available» program.
The authors further say that their «simple proposal» is for clinicians to refer patients to either home- or community-based exercise or for further evaluation and intervention in outpatient rehabilitation.
Prescribing exercise to cancer patients will require some changes among stakeholders, say the authors. «This will require care coordination with appropriate professionals as well as change in the behaviors of clinicians, patients, and those who deliver the rehabilitation and exercise programming,» they write.
Various countries are at a different stages of prescribing exercise. The main challenge faced by the United States, said Schmitz, is the fractured nature of cancer care. «[The different] medical records don't talk to each other. If they could, we could use machine learning to appropriately triage patients and trigger reminders to get people into [exercise] programing,» she said.
The Australian team showed that, after a median follow-up of 8.3 years, there were 11 (5.3%) deaths in the exercise group compared with 15 (11.5%) deaths in the usual care group (overall survival hazard ratio for the exercise group, 0.45; 95% confidence interval, 0.20 – 0.96; P = .04). The study of 237 Australian women was eventually accepted by Breast Cancer Research and Treatment, but getting publishers interested was tough. «I struggled to get these results published . . . this didn't tick the boxes,» Hayes said in an interview at the 2017 San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium.
Hayes emphasized at the time that these results were exploratory and had small numbers; however, she did comment that, «If a drug did this there would be people screaming from the rafters.»
Hayes played a role in the 2019 ESSA guidelines. She believes the perception of the importance of exercise for cancer patients is changing. «Where we still have room for improvement is in making it part of the consult,» she said, «and getting people to move.» She also said payers must step up to provide the specialized workforce to meet the demand.
Schmitz agreed that the solution is multifactorial. «None of us has any interest in making the oncologist the bad guy. They are overwhelmed. It's not simply that the oncologist needs to talk about this more, you need a better workforce and changes in policy. And even if the oncologist says you should be moving, the public says they shouldn't. It's an entire waterfront of change.»
Blue-chip exercise programs singled out in the new recommendations included MoveMore, a program from UK cancer charity Macmillan Cancer Support and US cancer support organization LIVESTRONG. MoveMore is now an integral part of the United Kingdom's cancer care pathway and provides at least 1 year of free exercise intervention to all UK cancer patients. LIVESTRONG, the largest such program in the world, provides small-group programs for up to 12 weeks per patient.
Such programs take years of planning. However, there are two simple things every oncologist could do right now to encourage cancer patients to exercise, said Schmitz. «Ask about it. Assess it,» she said. «Because what that tells the patient is that it matters to the physician.» If the oncologist does not mention exercise the patient assumes it's OK to be sedentary, Schmitz said.
Link Original:https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/919942?src=soc_fb_191018_mscpedt_news_mdscp_exercise&faf=1#vp_2
Esta entrada se ha publicado en Artículo, Cosas Nuevas, Efectos Secundarios, Ejercicio, Prevención, Salud y se ha etiquetado como cancer, corazón, Ejercicio, Fuerza muscular, Medicina, paradigma, presión arterial. Marca el vínculo permanente.
P. J. M. Elders1,
T. Merlijn1,
K. M. A. Swart1,2,
W. van Hout1,
B. C. van der Zwaard1,
C. Niemeijer2,
A. A. van der Heijden1,
H. E. van der Horst1,
P. Lips4,
J. C. Netelenbos4 &
N. M. van Schoor3
BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders volume 18, Article number: 424 (2017) Cite this article
ID NTR2430. Registered 26 July 2010.
Osteoporosis is a chronic and multifactorial disorder, which is characterized by low bone mass and micro-architectural deterioration of bone tissue, resulting in fractures after minimal or moderate trauma [1]. Fractures of the distal forearm, the vertebrae and the hip are the most serious consequences of osteoporosis [2, 3]. In the Netherlands, more than 27,000 distal forearm fractures, 6700 vertebral fractures, 17,000 hip fractures, and about 67,000 other fractures occur among persons aged >50 years every year, of which 32% can be attributed to osteoporosis [3]. Osteoporotic fractures are associated with increased morbidity and mortality for many years after the fracture, decreased quality of life and high costs for the society [3, 4].
Several drugs have become available, which have been shown to reduce the risk of fractures with 20-50% in controlled settings [5,6,7,8]. Optimal strategies to identify persons at high risk of osteoporotic fractures, and to prevent such fractures have been under discussion for a long time. The guidelines for treating osteoporosis vary strongly between different countries, and range from a conservative approach to almost complete screening of post-menopausal women aged >65 years with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) or even treatment of patients with fragility fractures without additional bone densitometry measurements [9,10,11,12,13,14,15]. The Dutch guidelines for general practitioners (GP's) advocate a conservative approach and advise a stepwise approach which identifies patients with a high fracture risk, by using both clinical risk factors for fractures, which in case of a high risk score is followed by a DXA measurement, and the assessment of prevalent vertebral fractures (see Table 1) [11]. Subsequently, patients at risk with a T-score < −2.5 or with a prevalent vertebral fracture should be treated with bone sparing medication, such as bisphosphonates. The most important reason for this conservative approach is that only few patients will be treated unnecessarily. However, as a consequence, a large part of patients with an increased fracture risk will not be treated. A second reason for this conservative approach is the fact that the effectiveness of the treatment with bisphosphonates has mainly been shown in individuals with known low bone mineral density [5,6,7,8], and not in a general primary care population.
In the last decade, the need for more pragmatic designs of clinical trials has been recognized, and pragmatic designs have been emerging [16]. Pragmatic trials are designed to study the effectiveness of an intervention in routine clinical practice. They are characterized by a high heterogeneity, with respect to patients, treatments, and clinical settings, which results in a high external validity of the findings [16]. Because the effects of treatment with bisphosphonates have been demonstrated in controlled settings only, there is a need for more pragmatic studies in primary care in which patients with a high fracture risk are identified and the effect of the bone sparing treatment is examined. The objective of the current study is to describe the design of the SALT Osteoporosis Study aiming to examine the effect of screening and treatment of patients with a high fracture risk in primary care on fracture incidence in a pragmatic setting.
The SALT Osteoporosis Study is a randomised pragmatic trial, which is currently performed in the Netherlands and that uses a stepwise approach (Fig. 1). GP's in the regions of Waterland, Amstelveen, Amsterdam, Haarlem and the Zaan district, in the province of Noord-Holland, are selected to collaborate in the trial. From the databases of the participating GP's, all women aged ≥65 years are selected.
Flow chart of the Salt Osteoporosis Study
The decision to include only women aged ≥65 years was based on our pilot study in 9 GP practices (see Fig. 2). In our pilot, women aged ≥50 years (n = 3824) were evaluated according to the Dutch conservative guideline. We observed that in women between the age of 50 and 65 years only 1% had an indication for prescription of bone sparing drugs in a primary care setting.
Flow chart of the Pilot SALT Osteoporosis Study in 9 general practices in the Netherlands. The indication of bone densitometry (DXA) and instant vertebral assessment (IVA) was based on the previous Dutch guideline for GP's for primary osteoporosis (see Table 1)
For the SALT Osteoporosis Study, women having terminal illness and women deemed unable to comply with the study protocol are excluded by the GP's. All other women are invited to participate by their GP and all receive a general baseline questionnaire from the research team (see Table 2 for content). Based on this questionnaire, women using bone sparing drugs or corticosteroids are also excluded (see Table 3 for full exclusion criteria).
Table 2 Content of the questionnaires of the SALT Osteoporosis Study
Table 3 Exclusion criteria of the SALT Osteoporosis Study
The next step beholds that we determine clinical risk factors for fractures that are reported in the questionnaire in all eligible women. The clinical risk factors are based on the fracture risk assessment tool (FRAX) guideline (Table 4) [17,18,19,20]. One of the clinical risk factors used in the FRAX is not applied, i.e. long term untreated hyperthyroidism, as it is impossible to find these patients when using a questionnaire, and this condition being very rare in this patient group. The items alcohol use and smoking are left out as well in the selection of participants (they are not excluded from the final FRAX calculation), because their association with fracture risk is relatively weak [21, 22]. After the risk factors are determined, those women who have at least one clinical risk factor for fractures are assigned to the intervention or control group, using individual randomisation.
Table 4 Clinical risk factors for fractures used in the SALT Osteoporosis Study
In the third step, the women in the intervention group are offered a screening program (as described below), to identify the women with a high fracture risk. Only these women with a high fracture risk are offered a structured treatment program (as described below). Women in the control group receive usual care. Both the control and intervention group are followed for a duration of at least 3 years, by sending follow-up questionnaires at 18 and 36 months (see Table 2 for content, and Table 5 for procedures).
Table 5 Procedures of data collection and entry in the SALT Osteoporosis Study
The trial is carried out at the VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, in close collaboration with the Stichting ArtsenLaboratorium and Trombosedienst (SALT), a primary care diagnostic center. All participants provide written informed consent. The trial is approved by the Dutch Health Council (2009/05WBO), and an execution license is provided by the Dutch Ministry of Health, Wellbeing and Sports (PG/)GZ-2.978.265). The trial is registered in the Dutch Trial Register (www.trialregister.nl, NTR2430).
The screening program to identify women with a high fracture risk consists of the FRAX combined with bone mineral density measures (BMD) assessed with DXA, and instant vertebral assessment (IVA), fall risk assessment, and clinical chemistry screening. Details on the measurements procedures are described below.
We have chosen this combined approach to increase the sensitivity to find high risk individuals. The FRAX is an often used tool to identify individuals at high fracture risk [17,18,19,20]. The assessment of clinical risk factors in combination with BMD has been shown to be more accurate than BMD alone [23]. IVA has been added as a screening instrument, because it has been shown that elderly with a vertebral fracture have a 4-fold increased fracture risk [24, 25]. In addition, fall risk assessment is not part of the FRAX, but fall-related risk factors are significantly and independently associated with fractures [26]. Almost all wrist fractures and over 90% of the hip fractures are the direct result of a fall [27]. Clinical chemistry is done for the purpose of additional diagnostics to identify secondary osteoporosis.
The FRAX algorithm calculates a 10-year absolute fracture risk based on the BMD measurement of the hip and the clinical risk factors indicated in the questionnaire. Because a Dutch FRAX tool was not available at the start of the study, the UK FRAX tool is used and adapted thresholds for a high fracture risk are developed based on data from the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam (LASA) [28]. The LASA is a population-based study in a representative sample of the Dutch elderly population. The LASA cohort data was used to calculate the absolute 10-year fracture risk for different age groups using the FRAX, as depicted in Table 6. The absolute threshold for a high fracture risk was defined among women with ≥1 clinical risk factors for fractures.
Table 6 Thresholds for treatment calculated using FRAXa and based on LASA cohort data, stratified for age
DXA measurements are performed at six different locations (Medisch centrum de Vaart Zaandam, Waterlandziekenhuis Purmerend, Kennemer Gasthuis Haarlem, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis (OLVG) Amsterdam, Ziekenhuis Amstelland Amstelveen, and Rode Kruis Ziekenhuis Beverwijk). All locations use a Hologic Discovery device (Hologic Inc., USA). BMD of the non-dominant hip and lumbar spine (L1 to L4) are measured under standardized procedures at all locations. In addition, trabecular bone scores are collected [29]. The dominant hip is used in case measurement of the non-dominant hip is not possible, and at least two lumbar vertebrae are used in case examination of L1 to L4 is not possible. The images are evaluated by an analyst and this evaluation is reviewed by a radiologist.
The Hologic Discovery (Hologic Inc., USA) provides a lateral image of the spine under standardized procedures. The IVA is performed according to the semi-quantitative method of Genant [30] by two independent examiners and reviewed by a third examiner in case of discordance between the two examiners. The definition of a vertebral fracture is defined as a height reduction of ≥20% in the lumbar spine and a height reduction of ≥25% in the thoracic spine.
Fall risk is assessed with the answers in the initial questionnaire (Table 2). Based on a previously validated risk profile [31], patients who are classified as having increased fall risk have either stated to have fallen twice or more in the previous year, or to have fallen once combined with a reduced mobility or fear of falling (score ≥ 8 (range 1-10, with higher scores indicating more fear of falling)).
Blood samples are analyzed routinely at two different locations. At SALT, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) is determined using the DiaSorin chemiluminescent immunoassay (DiaSorin, Italy), until March 2014, the DIAsource enzyme immunoassay until April 2015 (DIAsource ImmunoAssays, Belgium), and the Roche COBAS 6000's electrochemiluminescence immunoassay thereafter (Roche Diagnostics USA). Serum calcium, creatinine, albumin, thyroxine, and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) are determined using the Roche COBAS 6000 from the start (Roche Diagnostics, USA). Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is measured in blood on a Ves-Matic Cube (Menarini Diagnostics, Italy).
In the OLVG hospital, for serum 25(OH)D determination, the DiaSorin was used until September 2014 (DiaSorin, Italy), and the Roche COBAS e601/e602 module thereafter (Roche Diagnostics, USA). The Roche COBAS C702 is used to determine serum calcium, creatinine, and albumin (Roche Diagnostics, USA). Thyroxine and TSH are determined on the Roche COBAS e601/602 analyzer (Roche Diagnostics, USA). Blood ESR is measured using the Sysmex Starrsed Interrliner (Sysmex, Japan), that measures ESR according to the Westergren method.
Creatinine clearance is estimated for all participants by the Cockcroft-Gault formula.
Evaluations of the screening program and subsequent formulation of individual treatment advices are the responsibility of an expert team. Precise treatment indications for bone sparing medication are described in Table 7, and the structured treatment program is described in Table 8. The GP's receive personal instruction about the structured treatment protocol and receive the individual treatment advice for each patient. However, they have professional freedom to decide whether they are going to treat and which medication they are going to use. All GP's are instructed to report to the research team about each high fracture risk patient in the intervention group if treatment is started and if yes, which treatment is used.
Table 7 Treatment indications for bone sparing medication in the SALT Osteoporosis Study
Table 8 Structured treatment program of the SALT Osteoporosis Study
As specified by the Dutch guidelines, GP's are instructed to organise a consultation with patients after 4 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and every year after the start of bone sparing treatment, in order to optimize adherence and to evaluate side effects. For this reason, GP's are offered an option to use an application to remind them that a contact is due. GP's report each consult that occurred, and the application notifies the GP's if these contacts are due or have been missed.
The GP's are notified if patients in the intervention group have an increased fall risk. The decision whether and which measures to take for fall prevention is not protocolled.
Women in the control group receive usual care. At baseline, only clinical risk factors for fractures are examined in the control group, because it has been considered to be unethical to offer women in the control group a DXA without informing them about the results. A waiting list construction is therefore applied to the control group: at the end of the trial, the women in the control group will undergo the same screening as the women in the intervention group.
For additional ethical reasons, all patients in the control group that have an indication for DXA and IVA according to the Dutch guideline for GP's at the time of their inclusion, are notified accordingly and advised to contact their GP as part of usual care.
Women with at least one clinical risk factor for fractures, as determined by the baseline questionnaire, are assigned to the intervention or control group using individual randomisation, in a 1:1 ratio. The randomisation sequence is computer-generated using the MT_rand function of Hypertext Preprocessor (PHP). Via our web-based database, group allocation is automatically assigned to every new patient that is included.
Complete blinding of the patients and study team is not feasible in this open study design. However, we took measures to blind the GP as much as possible: the GP only receives information about patients with a treatment indication in the intervention group. For the other patients, the GP does not know whether or not they have approved to participate, are low risk participants in the intervention group, or are assigned to the control group. In addition, data entry and verification of fractures are performed by study team members that are blinded to group allocation. Statistical analyses will not be performed blindly.
The primary outcome is the time to the first new fracture and the total number of fractures during follow-up. Participants are asked to report fractures at 18 and 36 months, using questionnaires. All fractures will be verified with the GP or the hospital. Fracture information of patients who die during the study, move out of the region, or are otherwise lost to follow-up will be extracted from the GP medical records as well. Additionally, we will study the GP medical records of a subsample of 10% of the patients, who do not report fractures, to estimate the amount of fractures we might have missed using the questionnaires.
Secondary outcomes are osteoporotic fractures (defined as all fractures except fractures of the head, hand/finger, and foot/toe), as well as hip fractures, self-reported falls, and mortality.
Data for a qualitative process evaluation are collected by visiting a subsample of GP practices, patients, and pharmacies. Via interviews, medical records and pharmacy data we will gain insight in the process and anticipate on potential problems.
Cox proportional Hazards Models will be used to assess the effect on time to first new fracture between the groups. The proportional hazard assumption will be evaluated. The primary analyses will contain two different comparisons. First, to examine the effect of the screening program plus the structured treatment program, the women in the intervention group will be compared with the women in the control group. Following the intention to treat principle, this comparison includes all randomised women, both the ones with a high fracture risk and the ones with a low fracture risk. Second, we will examine the effect of the structured treatment program. In this analyses, women with a high fracture risk as identified by the screening program and adjoined treatment indication in the intervention group will be compared to women with a high fracture risk and adjoined treatment indication in the control group.
For the latter comparison, data on the fracture risk at baseline will be missing for most of the women in the control group, because DXA and IVA measurements are only performed at the end of 3 years of follow-up in the majority of the controls. In controls who underwent DXA and IVA at baseline, the baseline data will be used. Otherwise, missing data on fracture risk will be substituted. If BMD at follow-up will be sufficient, it is assumed that it was sufficient at baseline too, and if no vertebral fractures are observed at follow-up, than it is likely that no vertebral fractures were present at baseline either. The remainder of missings will be substituted using multiple imputation. For multiple imputation, the available baseline data of the intervention and control group will be used to estimate fracture risk for the women with remaining missing data.
In a secondary analysis we will examine the per protocol effect among adherent women only. All analyses will be adjusted for variables that differ between the intervention and control group at baseline. Interaction effects with age and previous fracture will be examined. An interim analysis has been performed to see if the study needed to be extended or stopped for futility. This analysis did not have consequences for the study continuation.
In our pilot study, 3% of all participants fulfilled the selection criteria for treatment with bone sparing drugs according to the actual GP guideline (Fig. 2). Based on the questionnaires we calculated the absolute 10-years fracture risk of the three main types of osteoporotic fractures using the FRAX. Based on this FRAX calculation and using the threshold levels of Table 6, we estimated that 28.2% of the women would fulfil criteria for treatment and that the average absolute 10-years fracture risk of these women was 27.5%, or 8.3% in a 3-year follow-up.
We assume that the incidence of new fractures will be reduced with 35% in the high risk treatment group compared to the control group [5, 6], and aim for an α of 0.05 and a β of 0.2. Taking into account that 3% of the high risk patients in the control group fulfil criteria for treatment with bone sparing drugs based on the current Dutch guidelines, and allowing for a 30% lost to follow-up rate [extrapolated from 26], we calculated that we would need to include n = 1700 in the intervention group and in the control group in order to have n = 1190 patients in both treatment groups at the end of the trial.
The inclusion started in 2010. After one year of recruitment, the inclusion was disappointing: only 50% of the approached patients approved to participate instead of the anticipated 80%, and less participants were identified as having a high fracture risk. As a result, more general practices are needed than the 100 practices that were planned, as well as more DXA examinations.
Because of the pragmatic study design the results of the SALT Osteoporosis Study will be very important for underpinnings of the prevention strategy of the osteoporosis guidelines. Currently, another large pragmatic trial to the effectiveness of screening older women for the prevention of fractures (the SCOOP study) is being performed in the United Kingdom [29]. The screening strategy of SCOOP is fairly similar to our strategy. In SCOOP, the indication for DXA is determined by the 10-year probability of a hip fracture as calculated by FRAX. After the DXA measurement in women at high risk, the 10-year probability is recalculated following inclusion of femoral neck BMD, to select the women that should be treated. In contrast to our study, IVA is not part of the screening program. The results of the SCOOP trial, are being expected in the coming year.
In addition to its pragmatic design and the use of DXA and IVA, the strength of the current study is that it is being performed in a primary care setting. We will therefore be able to check the follow-up status on fractures and mortality of patient who will be lost during follow up in the medical files, and as a consequence, low rates of missing data on the outcome are expected.
A limitation is the waiting list control group, in which the controls will undergo DXA after the end of the trial. This was done because of ethical considerations. However, inevitably, participants will be lost to follow-up, and therefore missing data on DXA will be increased in the control group, as compared to the intervention group. Multiple imputation will be used to solve this problem.
The sample size calculation was made to examine the effect of the structured treatment program, not primarily to examine the effect of the screening plus treatment program. Therefore, the power to show an effect in the intention to treat analysis (effect of screening and treatment program) is probably not large enough, because of a limited contrast between the treatment groups in this analysis: both the intervention and the control group contain women that do not have an indication for treatment. A larger sample size was practically and financially not feasible. In addition, the sample size calculation was based on the incidence of the three main types of osteoporotic fractures, whereas the main outcome is all types of fractures. The reason for this is that the FRAX algorithm was used to estimate fracture incidence, and this tool is not available for all types of fractures. The choice for all fractures as primary outcome results in 20% more fractures [32], and therefore increases the statistical power. Osteoporotic fractures will be analyzed subsequently.
If our screening program is effective, it might reduce the cost of fractures, but will also bring additional costs for screening and treatment. A cost-effectiveness evaluation is therefore of major interest. However, only a restricted cost-effectiveness analysis is possible for this study. Patients will be asked about medical visits and hospital admission twice during the follow-up of three years. We will be able to estimate and compare the costs of a fracture in both treatment arms.
In the Netherlands, usual osteoporosis care is problem-driven in reaction to, for example, a fracture or a question of the patient. Standardized screening in which x-ray examination is part of the process, is not allowed without special permit by the government. We are performing the study as a population study, with approval of the Dutch Health Council and Dutch Ministry of Health, Wellbeing and Sports, in which all women of 65 years or older are invited to participate and we will perform a process analysis of this approach by interviewing patients, doctors and general practices. This might lead to additional insights on how the prevention of osteoporosis in primary care can be improved. The primary result of the SALT Osteoporosis Study, that is the effectiveness of the screening and treatment program, will have a large impact on the strategy for fracture prevention.
Wells G, Cranney A, Peterson J, Boucher M, Shea B, Robinson V, Coyle D, Tugwell P. Risedronate for the primary and secondary prevention of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008;1:CD004523.
Wells GA, Cranney A, Peterson J, Boucher M, Shea B, Robinson V, Coyle D, Tugwell P. Etidronate for the primary and secondary prevention of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008;1:CD003376.
Serrano AJ, Begona L, Anitua E, Cobos R, Orive G. Systematic review and meta-analysis of the efficacy and safety of alendronate and zoledronate for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Gynecol Endocrinol. 2013;29:1005–14.
Briot K, Cortet B, Thomas T, et al. 2012 update of French guidelines for the pharmacological treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Joint Bone Spine. 2012;79:304–13.
Compston J, Bowring C, Cooper A, et al. Diagnosis and management of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and older men in the UK: National Osteoporosis Guideline Group (NOGG) update 2013. Maturitas. 2013;75:392–6.
Elders PJM, Dinant GJ, van Geel T, Maartens LWF, Merlijn T, Geijer RMM, Geraets JJXR. NHG-Standaard Fractuurpreventie (tweede herziening). Huisarts Wet. 2012;55:452–8.
Mendoza N, Sanchez-Borrego R, Villero J, et al. 2013 up-date of the consensus statement of the Spanish menopause society on postmenopausal osteoporosis. Maturitas. 2013;76:99–107.
Watts NB, Bilezikian JP, Camacho PM, et al. American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists Medical Guidelines for clinical practice for the diagnosis and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Endocr Pract. 2010;16(Suppl 3):1–37.
Yeap SS, Hew FL, Lee JK, Goh EM, Chee W, Mumtaz M, Damodaran P, Lim HH, Chan SP. The Malaysian clinical guidance on the management of postmenopausal osteoporosis, 2012: a summary. Int J Rheum Dis. 2013;16:30–40.
Centre for Metabolic Diseases, University of Sheffield, UK. https://www.shef.ac.uk/FRAX/index.aspx. Accessed 3 Jan 2017.
Kanis JA, McCloskey EV, Johansson H, Strom O, Borgstrom F, Oden A. Case finding for the management of osteoporosis with FRAX--assessment and intervention thresholds for the UK. Osteoporos Int. 2008;19:1395–408.
Kanis JA, Johansson H, Johnell O, Oden A, De Laet C, Eisman JA, Pols H, Tenenhouse A. Alcohol intake as a risk factor for fracture. Osteoporos Int. 2005;16:737–42.
Kanis JA, Johnell O, Oden A, et al. Smoking and fracture risk: a meta-analysis. Osteoporos Int. 2005;16:155–62.
Kanis JA, Oden A, Johnell O, et al. The use of clinical risk factors enhances the performance of BMD in the prediction of hip and osteoporotic fractures in men and women. Osteoporos Int. 2007;18:1033–46.
Pongchaiyakul C, Nguyen ND, Jones G, Center JR, Eisman JA, Nguyen TV. Asymptomatic vertebral deformity as a major risk factor for subsequent fractures and mortality: a long-term prospective study. J Bone Miner Res. 2005;20:1349–55.
Black DM, Arden NK, Palermo L, Pearson J, Cummings SR. Prevalent vertebral deformities predict hip fractures and new vertebral deformities but not wrist fractures. Study of Osteoporotic Fractures Research Group. J Bone Miner Res. 1999;14:821–8.
CBO KvdG (2011) Richtlijn Osteoporose en fractuurpreventie, derde herziening.
Hoogendijk EO, Deeg DJ, Poppelaars J, et al. The longitudinal aging study Amsterdam: cohort update 2016 and major findings. Eur J Epidemiol. 2016;31:927–45.
Peeters GM, Elders PJM, Lips P, Deeg DJ. Snelle inschatting van de kans op herhaald vallen bij ouderen. Huisarts Wet. 2011;54:186–91.
van Wijngaarden JP, Swart KM, Enneman AW, et al. Effect of daily vitamin B-12 and folic acid supplementation on fracture incidence in elderly individuals with an elevated plasma homocysteine concentration: B-PROOF, a randomized controlled trial. Am J Clin Nutr. 2014;100:1578–86.
The authors gratefully thank all participants and participating GP's. In addition, all dedicated co-workers are thanked for their substantial organizational input, especially Yvonne Hoeben, Ilse van Delden, Jorine Boot, Menno Merlijn, Manuela de Jong, Leonie Quak, and Hester Pauli.
The SALT Osteoporosis Study is largely funded by Stichting Achmea Gezondheidszorg. Unrestricted grants have been provided by Takeda Nederland B.V., Amgen B.V., and Teva Nederland. Healthcare costs are compensated by Achmea and VGZ Zorgverzekeraar. Additional financial support is provided by Stichting ArtsenLaboratorium en Trombosedienst. Extra funding to study medication adherence within the SALT Osteoporosis Study has been obtained after the start of the trial via unrestricted grants provided by Takeda Nederland B.V., Amgen B.V., and Teva Nederland. The sponsors do not have any role in the design or implementation of the study, data collection, data management, future data analysis, and interpretation, or in the preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript.
Department of General Practice and Elderly Care Medicine, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam Public Health research institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
P. J. M. Elders, T. Merlijn, K. M. A. Swart, W. van Hout, B. C. van der Zwaard, A. A. van der Heijden & H. E. van der Horst
Stichting ArtsenLaboratorium en Trombosedienst, Koog aan de Zaan, The Netherlands
K. M. A. Swart & C. Niemeijer
M. W. Heymans, F. Rutters & N. M. van Schoor
Department of Internal Medicine, Endocrine Section, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam Public Health research institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
P. Lips & J. C. Netelenbos
A. A. van der Heijden
Study concept and design (PJME, TM, CN, PL, JCN, NMvS); data collection and management (PJME, TM, KMAS, WvH, BCvdZ, JCN); trial coordination (PJME, TM); data analysis plan (PJME, TM, KMAS, MWH, NMvS); warranty of infrastructure (CN, HEvdH), intellectual content and interpretation (PJME, TM KMAS, WvH, BCvdZ, CN, MWH, AAvdH, FR, HEvdH, PL, JCN, NMvS); drafting the manuscript (PJME, TM, KMAS); review of the manuscript and approval of the final version (PJME, TM KMAS, WvH, BCvdZ, CN, MWH, AAvdH, FR, HEvdH, PL, JCN, NMvS). PJME is the principle investigator.
Correspondence to P. J. M. Elders.
All participants provided written informed consent. The trial was approved by the Dutch Health Council (2009/05WBO), and an execution license was provided by the Dutch Ministry of Health, Wellbeing and Sports (PG/)GZ-2.978.265).
Elders, P.J.M., Merlijn, T., Swart, K.M.A. et al. Design of the SALT Osteoporosis Study: a randomised pragmatic trial, to study a primary care screening and treatment program for the prevention of fractures in women aged 65 years or older. BMC Musculoskelet Disord 18, 424 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12891-017-1783-y
Journal of the Korean society of Fisheries Technology , volume 27, Issue 2 | Korea Science
Kim, Se-Won ; Kim, Ki-Yun ;
Journal of the Korean society of Fisheries Technology , volume 27, issue 2, 1991, Pages 97~104
Kim, Dong-Sun ; Cho, Kyu-Dae ; Lee, Byung-Gul ;
Journal of the Korean society of Fisheries Technology , volume 27, issue 2, 1991, Pages 105~119
Journal of the Korean society of Fisheries Technology , volume 27, issue 2, 1991, Pages 120~124
An interaction of turbulent boundary layer and local roughness effects was evaluated to investigate the shear frictional coefficient in diffuser. Clauser roughness function was applied to Karman's integral equation for governing equation. The roughness of overall and local diffuser surfaces were calculated using Cole's wall and wake law and Clauser's roughness function for turbulent boundary layer characteristics. The calculating results were compared with the experimental results of other paper. It shows some significant improyements for shear frictional coefficient. Computer code was then used to confirm the behavior of local frictional coefficient along with diffuser roughness surface for some reduction of shear flow stress.
Park, Sang-Kill ; Rho, Chang-Joo ;
Journal of the Korean society of Fisheries Technology , volume 27, issue 2, 1991, Pages 125~131
Journal of the Korean society of Fisheries Technology , volume 27, issue 2, 1991, Pages 132~140
The aim of this study was saving of chromium and nickel content in the austenitic stainless steels, SUS 316 and SUS 321. By control of primary solidification mode, new austenitic stainless steels with good weldability, high toughness and corrosion resistance could be developed. The main results obtained were as follows; 1. Hot crack resistance of laboratory melts was good and higher than imported austenitic stainless steel. 2. Cryogenic and room temperature toughness of laboratory melts were high and laboratory melts M-7 to M-9 showed very high toughness than SUS321 imported stainless steel. 3. Intergranular corrosion resistance of laboratory melts was higher than imported stainless steels, SUS316 and SUS321. 4. By this concept of controlling primary solidification mode, could save expensive alloy additives, chromium and nickel.
Why Vital Care — Vital Care | Primary and Family Care
Services Latest News Contact (804) 256-8282 Book Online Patient Portal
Why Vital Care Meet Our Providers Career Opportunities
Appointments Insurance Medical Records Patient Forms Policies & Procedures
About Us Why Vital Care Meet Our Providers Career Opportunities Patients Appointments Insurance Medical Records Patient Forms Policies & Procedures ServicesLatest NewsContact
(804) 256-8282Book OnlinePatient Portal
VitalCare is an independently owned practice that focuses on preventative care for your whole family through all stages of life. VitalCare serves as the first for your healthcare needs by providing continuity, coordination, and navigation through a fragmented health system. This helps us foster your confidence and enables us to be more effective advocates on your behalf.
VitalCare is available for sick visits, regular follow ups, minor surgical procedures, and physicals. We offer rapid diagnostic tests for early disease recognition in the convenience and comfort of our office. We believe in providing all these services in one place and so we may have long term familiarity of health history. In addition, we serve as a central resource for advice and referrals for all other specialty healthcare services.
Some of the How
Electronic medical records (EMR) helps us make the best decisions for you and your family.
Electronic Medical Records, or EMR, is an information sharing system for both patients and doctors. It gives your doctor valuable access to all data on prior medical history, prescriptions, lab results – the information we need to effectively treat you as a patient. It's all neatly stored in one easy to access database record. Because all the information we need is at our fingertips you get a more informed diagnosis. When necessary it provides us easy access to the records of other family members so we can make more informed medical decisions when we're dealing with allergies, inherited traits and other conditions.
Advantages of EMR Include:
An enhanced quality of care due to the amount of information at hand from every available and viable medical source.
Faster and more efficient diagnosis and treatments.
Enhance your experience by connecting with our office using the secure patient portal or HEALOW App!
Stress term papers | Custom paper Academic Service kltermpaperjgke.zeniary.info
Do you need to file a disability claim for stress or short term disability – in this case your employers or your own i had a doctor sign the papers for. Introduction stress is a common problem that affects almost all of us at some point in our lives physical and mental signs of short-term stress. Stress management term papers and essays stress management is the process by which an individual endeavors to govern the tension in his or her life. Thus long-term or chronic stress, psychological stress and the human immune system: a meta-analytic study of 30 years of inquiry psychological bulletin,. Stress symptoms, signs, and causes improving your ability to handle stress stress isn't always bad in small doses, it can help you perform under pressure and motivate you to do your best.
Enter search term(s papers and briefs on bank stress testing and will component of the ofr's stress testing program stress tests of individual. Term papers stress » essay helper online thesis formatting service content writing services usa : custom writing uk. It might seem like i am merely trying to make a point that stress is bad, but i tell you this: stress can kill many research papers and essays are written on this topic.
Post-traumatic stress disorder can lead to psychological problems in many men and women, and especially veterans, due to traumatic events post-traumatic stress disorder is an anxiety disorder that can develop after exposure to a terrifying event or ordeal in which grave physical harm occurred or was threatened. Stress name institution stress stressful situations lead to changes in the structure and functioning of the brain the brain contains a neural circuitry that coordinates and monitors the stress response system. Best term paper writers are here to help do your assignment up to the mark genuine content, timely delivery, fine rates per page. Stress management free essays, term papers and book reports thousands of papers to select from all free. Searchers found that the stress of long-term health effects for the the stress of family caregiving: your health may be at risk.
Essays, term papers, book reports, research papers on psychology free papers and essays on stress reduction we provide free model essays on psychology, stress reduction reports, and term paper samples related to stress reduction. Essays, term papers, book reports, research papers on psychology free papers and essays on stress we provide free model essays on psychology, stress reports, and term paper samples related to stress. Rossman 1 the effects of stress on short-term and long-term memory marni rossman chancellors honors project senior thesis. Help your child beat exam stress such as drawing up a revision schedule or getting hold of past papers for practice to help with motivation,. What is ptsd posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) early treatment is important and may help reduce long-term symptoms unfortunately, many people do.
Stress term papers, essays and research papers available. How to write term papers getting started choosing a topic doing the research once again, it is important to stress that a paper is a whole product. With over 55,000 free term papers we have the writing help you need become a better writer in less time. Find and download essays and research papers on stress coping.
Because it is short term, acute stress doesn't have enough time to do the extensive damage associated with long-term stress the most common symptoms are. Termpaperchampionscom is your trusted provider of custom academic papers stress categories american history paper (1) term paper personal. Stress is not a useful term for scientists because it is such a highly subjective phenomenon that it defies definition and if you can't define stress, how can.
Psychology: name: instructor: institution: date: stress and depression section one: stress and depression may both be influenced by medical conditions and life events. Long-term stress can harm your health health problems can occur if the stress response goes on for too long or becomes chronic,.
What is work-related stress work-related stress is still an evasive concept to many, although the topic is covered in hundreds of papers published every year. Free term paper on stress and burnout in the workforce available totally free at planet paperscom, the largest free term paper community. The term stress had none of its contemporary connotations before the 1920s it is a form of the middle english destresse, derived via old french from the latin.
Endodontics – Swinburne Private Dental Hawthorn Melbourne – Modern Dentists – Dr. Victor Barnes
One of the most common endodontic therapies performed is Root Canal Treatment (RCT).
Root canal treatment is needed to remove the damaged tissue, disinfect the root canal system and restore the tooth to function. Certain teeth may have complex anatomy or may be part of a bridge and require careful treatment. However, current modern day endodontic practices, such as the use of a microscope which allows for greater visual access, enables for the completion of such cases to a high standard as shown below.
Occasionally RCT is undertaken on a previously root filled tooth in which the treatment is inadequate or has failed. The outcome for such cases can be very favourable and result complete resolution and healing of large infections as shown below. Where appropriate, a surgical procedure (apicectomy, root resection) can be undertaken in order to save the tooth.
Root canal treatment if followed by placement of a crown is highly successful and usually lasts a lifetime, although on occasion, a tooth will have to be retreated due to recurrent infections.
Service Name: ADULT URGENT WALK-IN SERVICES, CRF/JANE WESTIN CENTER, CENTRAL
Service Description: Provides recovery and rehabilitation services for severely and persistently mentally ill adults. Also provides non-emergency outpatient psychiatric services including medication and other urgent menta...
Address: 1045 9TH AVE, SAN DIEGO, CA
Service Name: CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS OUTPATIENT SERVICES, EL CENTRO
Organization Name: BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES, COUNTY OF IMPERIAL
Service Description: Offers mental health services to children and adolescents with severe emotional, mental and/or behavioral problems and their families. Services include intake assessment, mediation support services, t...
Address: 120 N 8TH ST, EL CENTRO, CA
Organization Name: SYCUAN MEDICAL DENTAL CENTER
Service Description: Offers behavioral health services and appointments to individuals, couples, and families of all ages. Services include individual, couples, and family counseling, adult psychiatry, psychological testi...
Address: 5442 SYCUAN RD, EL CAJON, CA
Service Name: GENERAL MENTAL HEALTH
Organization Name: SOUTH COAST COMMUNITY SERVICES
Service Description: Mental health services for individuals of all ages with moderate to severe needs.
Address: 34324 Yucaipa Boulevard, Yucaipa, CA
Service Description: During COVID-19 response, services are the same with social distancing measures in place. Offers counseling by telehealth, as well as in-person. (Updated 3/29/21.)
So how should we find out how much red meat is actually good for you? The researchers suggest an independent group of nutrition experts produce trustworthy recommendations based off their experience. The group doesn’t make any suggestions on how much red meat you should actually be eating.
While carnivore diet followers might be rejoicing at the news, researchers at various institutions are up in arms over it. One organization, the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, even filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission against the study.
Dr. Frank Hu, chairman of the nutrition department at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, said in a statement on the school’s website that the study “runs contradictory to the large body of evidence indicating higher consumption of red meat … is associated with higher risk” of various diseases.
We’ve written about red meat plenty of times and know that the evidence can be confusing. On one hand, past studies have linked it to a higher risk of heart disease and cancer. But we also know that its chock full of protein, iron, zinc, and a hell of a lot more.
Some might take this news as a reason to fire up the grill, even though it’s October. But don’t rush to the deli counter just yet: it’s always best to listen to what your nutritionist or doctor says when it comes to your diet.
