Distinguished Gentlemen's Ride AUD 2,760,854
The project works to centralise clinical quality data from an approved network of global Local Data Centres (LDCs) who provide de-identified patient clinical data to a Data Coordination Centre (DCD) bi-annually. Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) are collected at baseline and 12 months post active treatment to:
Understand patient reported outcomes and establish a collaborative process to disseminate findings related to exemplary patient care
Identify organisations with positive outcomes and the structure / process that supports this success
Establish a mechanism for obtaining regular feedback from Participating Sites and LDCs on their results with international benchmarking
Understand and reduce variation across sites by better understanding predictors that may change clinical practice and improve outcomes
Researchers seek to improve success of chimer | EurekAlert!
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — A study published by researchers from Mayo Clinic Cancer Center at Mayo Clinic in Florida and Case Western, Cleveland Medical Center, investigates the reasons for decreasing remission rates for patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma treated with chimeric antigen receptor-T cell therapy (CAR-T cell therapy). The study is published in Cancer Discovery.
"CAR-T cell therapy is a promising treatment for non-Hodgkin lymphoma, especially for patients who have relapsed or those who have not responded to prior therapies," says Tae Hyun Hwang, Ph.D., a researcher at Mayo Clinic Cancer Center in Jacksonville, Florida.
However, Dr. Hwang says that recent long-term follow-up data suggest that the success rate of CAR-T cell therapy for patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma may be decreasing. "Lasting remission in this setting ranges from 30% to 40%," so it is critical to identify a predictive biomarker to measure CAR-T cell resistance so we can better match patients with effective therapy," says Dr. Hwang.
"The overall goal of our research is to support precision oncology care. Novel therapeutic strategies will help us improve the efficacy of CAR-T cell therapy for patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma," says David Wald, M.D., Ph.D., of Case Western, Cleveland Medical Center, the study's co-author,
"Our team hypothesized there would be distinct molecular patterns in CAR-T cells between patients who responded to treatment and patients who did not respond," says Dr Hwang. He says the team used innovative computational and experimental approaches to identify these patterns.
"If our findings can be validated in prospective clinical trials, our TIGIT blocking strategy with CAR-T cell therapy may improve current CAR-T cell therapy responses in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and may also improve patient survival," says Dr. Hwang.
https://newsnetwork.mayoclinic.org/discussion/researchers-seek-to-improve-success-of-chimeric-antigen-receptor-t-cell-therapy-in-non-hodgkin-lymphoma/
ELEVEN HEALTH MISCONCEPTIONS THAT MAY BE DESTROYING YOUR HEALTH! – Lana Lennox's Blog
As time goes by, there seems to be more and more health misconceptions about people's levels of health and well-being. I would like to list a number of concepts that are considered as completely factual, but in truth, are just marginally accurate (just enough accuracy to lead you astray), if accurate at all. This type of misinformation is what is keeping America not only unhealthy and unfit, but also extremely diseased.
Do you adhere to any of the following health misconceptions?
1. "Jogging is the best exercise for losing weight"
This thought goes hand in hand with other health misconceptions that to become healthy and fit all we have to do is burn more calories than we consume. Jogging is very hard on the body's joints and can create all sorts of over-training and repetitive stress syndrome issues (physical therapists and orthopedic specialists love runners and joggers). Fast-walking and short-duration running are far better approaches to improving your health and fitness levels.
2. "Sports are a great form of exercise"
Sports were created for fun and entertainment, not improving your health. If you take a good look at the majority of the sports, you will see a "high-risk" involved. Proper, or smart exercise, should have little to no risk involved and you should receive long term benefits, which normally are not attained with sporting/athletic activities.
3. "The best way to work the heart is to do something aerobic"
As someone who has been in involved in the health and fitness industry for over thirty years, I couldn't pass on listing this with one of the many health misconceptions. The best way to improve the strength of your heart is through a well thought out resistance training program that has a balanced approach, including functional movements, body-weight and strength training exercises. The cardiovascular/respiratory system gets all sorts of beneficial work when we squat, lunge, lift, pull and press, plus proper resistance training movements transfer over into everyday life.
4. "I don't lift weights because I don't want to get bulky"
To me personally, this is by far the funniest of all of the health misconceptions. This may be the most humorous of all of the misconceptions, because most people don't understand how difficult it is too put on muscle. The problem occurs when people add muscle and fat while they begin working out. If the nutrition is not dialed in properly, people have a tendency to gain weight which is made up of some muscle and even more fat. This leads to that "bulky" look that nobody seems to like. The truth is less than 2% of all women have any chance of ever looking overly muscular because of their estrogen to testosterone ratios. Plus, after the age of 30, the majority of men and women have to work very hard just to hold on to any muscle they have, let alone, to continue to put it on (hypertrophy).
5. "Increased dietary cholesterol intake leads to an increase in serum cholesterol levels"
Focusing on one variable to determine the level of your health is a very scary health misconception. The big pharmaceutical companies are making a "killing" on this type of misinformation.
You can look this one up yourselves, but you will find that there is no relationship between increased dietary cholesterol intake and increased serum cholesterol levels. I think you will find that the majority of cholesterol issues in America are caused by damaged metabolisms created by the increased intake of damaged fats (saturated and unsaturated) and refined carbohydrates/sugars that increase insulin responses. This misconception is quite unfortunate, as it causes a large portion of our society not to eat eggs. In my opinion the egg produced by the free-range (eats bugs/exercises/receives sunlight) organically fed chicken is one of the best foods available today.
6. "If I look fit, I am healthy"
Unfortunately, of all of the health misconceptions, this one is really taking our country by storm! The way we look, and our well-being, are not necessarily directly related. Sure, most of us are over-fat and under muscled. But, being obsessive and compulsive to attain that rail thin look (fit at all costs syndrome) is how many people create accelerated aging and degenerative disease. You should only work on becoming fit, only after you have developed a high level of health and well-being.
7. "Type II diabetes is hereditary"
The truth is we are just damaging our metabolisms at a faster rate than ever before, thus children now have Adult Onset Diabetes. This disease is a lifestyle disease and the only reason it "runs in the family" is because of the poor habits that are passed on from one generation to another. (Some people who don't want take responsibility for their lives and doctors who love medicating disease over teaching real prevention of disease will disagree with me here, but the "proof is in the pudding"/please, Look it up)
8. "The best way to lose weight is to prioritize counting calories"
This health misconception is probably my biggest pet-peeve! If you have been been on this site in the past you realize that the supposed "Law of Thermodynamics" is a real pet peeve of mine. It seems every fitness professional with a two day personal training certification is going to tell you that your major focus in losing weight is to cut the calories and increase your exercise level. I beg to differ, as I believe that it is a real mistake to make something so complex so simple. So I believe that this approach will only lead to long term health problems.
9. "If I eat fat, I will get fat"
This health and fitness misconception may be destroying more unassuming people's health than any other. We actually need fat intake to burn fat. Also, there are no essential carbohydrates, but there are plenty of essential fatty acids. Fats keep you satiated and have been severely and incorrectly demonized by western media and medical factions. These fats will kill you though: trans-fat, rancid and excessive omega-6 fatty acid intake (vegetable oils).
10. "The more abdominal exercises I do, the smaller and leaner my waist will become"
The fallacy of spot-reduction is one of the worst and most horrendous of all of the health misconceptions, but is more than alive and well in most health and fitness magazines today. Quit following such rubbish and force the marketers to focus on another way to swindle your money away. We all would be much better off focusing on improving their posture with core exercises than working on an abdominal routine.
11. "Taking a one-a-day synthetic vitamin and mineral supplement will take care of any inadequacies in my everyday diet"
A proper nutritional program is the most important thing you can do in improving the state of your health. Taking a synthetic supplement once a day is not. Health misconceptions that move people away from consuming high quality real foods may be the most maddening to me, as how could a cheap synthetic supplement full of all sorts of fillers and indigestible micro-nutrients make up for poor nutrition habits that take place 24/7/365? It can't! And, it doesn't!
Unfortunately the health and fitness industry is full of misinformation that has become known to many as fact, or major health misconceptions. If any of the above health misconceptions ring true to you, please make a real effort to change your mindset and behaviors today!
There you go… eleven health misconceptions that could be greatly effecting your health negatively.
If you have any questions or comments about these or any other health misconceptions, please leave them below.
If you have interest in self health care solutions, please let me know your area of interest and I will put together a post on it.
Last Reply: mental illness and spinal fusion
5 Replies |Watch This Discussion | Report This| Share this:mental illness and spinal fusionreply about this concern meds like a double whammy everyday find someone it moreand more difficcult to cope pain meds makeside effects worse opana not working need stronger meds pain management refuses to addressthis issue someone please identifymichelle
Report This| Share this:mental illness and spinal fusionI have no idea what this post is saying or asking. You need to rewrite it using complete sentences with punctuation. It will make it easier to read and you will be more likely to get replies. Use the spell check after.
Report This| Share this:mental illness and spinal fusion4surgeries sorry 3 dr wants to do 4tocorrect fusion by scraping bone so it does not impinge on nerve cannot make up my mind deeply depressed on bipolar meds also pain ativan anyone can identify?physical/mental sufferer
Report This| Share this:mental illness and spinal fusionI am sorry, I can only guess what you mean in your posts as you have not made it into sentences or use punctuation.I assume you have had a number of spinal surgeries, and are now using Opana for pain and it is not working. You also have bipolar disorder, and feel very depressed. If you are on a lot of mental health meds, still depressed, and also in pain and the Opana is not working for you, I am not sure you are even capable of giving informed consent for surgery at this time.If I were you, or if you were my friend/family, I would suggest you see your psychiatrist first and get your bipolar disorder under better control, then see the PM doctor and get your pain under better control. Once you are past this crisis you can decide about more spinal surgery.I think it is more a matter of what dose you use for the Opana than using a "stronger" pain med. The PM doctor may be reluctant to give you more because you are taking Ativan or other mental health meds. I don't know, ask him directly why he feels it is not the time to increase your dose or change the type of pain meds you take.Take a deep breath, and try and settle yourself a bit.Take care, Annette
Report This| Share this:mental illness and spinal fusionthanks for reply annette feeling more center with friends and activities struggle but more hopeful will be in touch with surgeon next week to discuss options mazzarisi
Report This| Share this:mental illness and spinal fusionI would not bother to discuss meds with a surgeon, but rather discuss it with a pain management doctor or whoever writes your Opana RXs.All a surgeon will tell you is if he thinks he can do surgery, and if it will improve your pain.Take care, Annette
2-s2.0-34248169658
Legesse M., Erko B.
Field-based evaluation of a reagent strip test for diagnosis of Schistosoma mansoni by detecting circulating cathodic antigen in urine before and after chemotherapy
10.1016/j.trstmh.2006.11.009
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34248169658&partnerID=40&md5=dfc66fa3cbf4caec5a12e34c39390739
Legesse, M., Aklilu Lemma Institute of Pathobiology, Addis Ababa University, P.O. Box 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; Erko, B., Aklilu Lemma Institute of Pathobiology, Addis Ababa University, P.O. Box 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
The sensitivity of a reagent strip test for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis by detecting circulating cathodic antigen (CCA) in urine was evaluated under field conditions using 251 stool and urine samples collected from a Schistosoma mansoni-endemic area of Ethiopia. The specificity of the test was evaluated in an area where schistosomiasis is not endemic. Stool samples were examined microscopically using duplicate Kato slides and formol-ether concentration methods. The effectiveness of the test in monitoring efficacy was also evaluated following chemotherapy. The results revealed that detection of CCA in urine using the one-step reagent strip test was superior to the stool examination methods (P < 0.05) in indicating the prevalence of the disease. Assuming the combination of parasitological test results as the gold standard, the sensitivity and specificity of the test were 82.1% and 75.9%, respectively. The results of egg counts suggested the potential use of urine CCA in indicating the intensity of infection as an alternative to parasitological methods. The sensitivity and specificity of the test were 75% and 73.7%, respectively, following chemotherapy. Diagnosis of S. mansoni infection in urine using reagent strips would provide information on the prevalence of the disease, although further study is needed to improve its sensitivity and specificity. © 2007 Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.
Circulating cathodic antigen; Ethiopia; Reagent strip; Schistosoma mansoni; Urine CCA
antigen; circulating cathodic antigen; praziquantel; unclassified drug; adolescent; adult; aged; antigen detection; article; child; controlled study; diagnostic test; drug efficacy; drug monitoring; endemic disease; Ethiopia; feces analysis; female; human; intermethod comparison; major clinical study; male; microscopy; nonhuman; prediction; prevalence; Schistosoma mansoni; schistosomiasis; sensitivity and specificity; test strip; urinalysis; Adolescent; Adult; Aged; Anthelmintics; Antigens, Helminth; Child; Cross-Sectional Studies; Ethiopia; Feces; Female; Glycoproteins; Helminth Proteins; Humans; Male; Middle Aged; Praziquantel; Reagent Strips; Schistosomiasis mansoni; Sensitivity and Specificity; Schistosoma mansoni
New DNA Webinar at Legacy Family Tree - Genetic Genealogy: Advanced - DNA Bargains
TOPICS:Diahan SouthardEducationLegacy Family Tree WebinarsNewsWebinars
Are you a subscriber at Legacy Family Tree Webinars? Here's another good reason you should be: they've just added a BONUS webinar by Diahan Southard entitled "Genetic Genealogy: Advanced" which is available on-demand.
"Autosomal DNA is a flexible, information-rich test that has most people left wondering what the next steps should be. We will briefly explore the more advanced tools and methodology behind the results at the major testing companies. We will talk in detail about phasing, centromeres, chromosome browsers, and the molecular clock. We will also explore external genetic genealogy websites with their vast array of additional analysis tools including: Gedmatch- a meeting ground for those tested at any of the three main companies, Gedmatch has a wide variety of tools available including chromosome browsers, admixture calculators, and a unique tool called Lazarus that can help you reconstruct the DNA profile of your ancestor. DNAGedcom.com- there are a variety of tools available here for helping you make connections with your genetic cousins. We will specifically explore the Autosomal DNA segment analyzer to understand its power in helping to navigate your results at Family Tree DNA. Promethease- For a small fee you can extract a limited amount of health information from an autosomal DNA test completed by any major DNA testing company. We will talk about the pros and cons of this kind of information and help you make an informed decision about obtaining health information from your genetic genealogy test results. Take your DNA test to the next level with these exciting genetic genealogy tools! "
Click here to view for free if you already subscribe to Legacy Family Tree Webinars. Or . . .
Save 15% on an Annual Membership: Regularly $49.95, pay just $42.46 when you use promo code thomas15 at checkout. Visit http://legacy.familytreewebinars.com/?aid=4438 for more information.
Phase I evaluation of lenvatinib and weekly paclitaxel in patients with recurrent endometrial, ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer
Homepage > Cancer Specialties > Find a Clinical Trial > Search Clinical Trials > Phase I evaluation of lenvatinib and weekly paclitaxel in patients with...
Lenvatinib Mesylate and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients with Recurrent Endometrial, Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
Protocol: OSU-15273
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenvatinib mesylate when given together with paclitaxel in treating patients with endometrial, ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that has come back or grown. Lenvatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking a protein needed for cell growth and may block the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving lenvatinib mesylate and paclitaxel together may work better in treating patients with endometrial, ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.
I. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of combination lenvatinib mesylate (lenvatinib) and weekly paclitaxel in patients with recurrent endometrial, epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma.
I. To determine the safety and tolerability of combination lenvatinib and weekly paclitaxel in patients with recurrent endometrial, epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma.
II. To explore the objective antitumor activity (complete and partial response) of combination lenvatinib and weekly paclitaxel as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.
III. To measure the progression free survival.
IV. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of combination paclitaxel and lenvatinib.
OUTLINE: This is a dose -escalation study of lenvatinib mesylate.
Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and lenvatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 3 months for 3 years.
Patients must have histologically confirmed endometrial cancer, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer (all histologic subtypes)
Patients must have measurable disease, defined as at least one lesion that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded for non-nodal lesions and short axis for nodal lesions) as >= 20 mm with conventional techniques or as >= 10 mm with spiral computerized tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or calipers by clinical exam
Patients must have received prior treatment with a platinum containing regimen and may have received an unlimited number of prior regimens (including prior taxanes)
Patients with ovarian cancer can be platinum-sensitive (with documented progression > 6 months after completion of a platinum containing regimen) or platinum resistant (progression < 6 months after completion of a platinum containing regimen)
Patients may have received prior targeted therapy such as bevacizumab
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase [SGOT])/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase [SGPT]) =< 2.5 × institutional upper limit of normal
Creatinine < 1.5 mg/dL OR creatinine clearance >= 50 mL/min for patients with creatinine levels above institutional normal
Urine protein by dipstick <1+ or UPC =< 1.0 by urinalysis
Patients with chronic hypertension that is well controlled with systolic blood pressure of < 140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure of < 90 mmHg, and in whom there has been no change in blood pressure medication in the last two weeks, are eligible
Although extremely rare in this population that fertility would still be an option, a female is eligible to participate if she is of non-childbearing potential or has documentation of a negative pregnancy test prior to the start of the study treatment; sexually active pre-menopausal female subjects of child-bearing potential must agree to use adequate, highly effective contraceptive measures, while on study and for 45 days after the last dose of last study drug; effective birth control includes: intrauterine device (IUD) plus one barrier method; oral, implantable or injectable contraceptives plus one barrier method; 2 barrier methods; effective barrier methods are male or female condoms, diaphragms, and spermicides (creams or gels that contain a chemical to kill sperm)
Patients who have a history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolus and are stable on anticoagulation for > 1 month are eligible
Patients who have had chemotherapy or radiotherapy within 3 weeks (6 weeks for nitrosoureas or mitomycin C) prior to entering the study or those who have not recovered from adverse events due to agents administered more than 4 weeks earlier
History of severe allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar chemical or biologic composition to lenvatinib and/or paclitaxel
Concomitant use of cytochrome P450 (CYP3A4) inhibitors or inducers is allowed but should be monitored closely for the use of strong inhibitors and/or inducers; patient is strongly advised to avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice and herbal supplements with high risk of interaction with CYP3A4 or CYP2C8, such as St. John's Wort while on study
Symptomatic left ventricular dysfunction or baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) by multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) or echocardiogram (ECHO) of =< lower limit of institutional normal (LVEF < 50%)
Patients with marked baseline prolongation of QT/QTc interval (QTc interval > 450 msec for males or > 470 msec for females)
History of class III or IV congestive heart failure as defined by the New York Heart Association
Major surgical procedure (e.g. laparotomy, bowel resection) 4 weeks prior to start of the study drug
Central nervous system metastasis; Note: patients with previously treated (radiotherapy or surgery) brain metastasis that have been stable without steroid treatment for at least 3 months following prior treatment may be enrolled
Neuropathy grade >1
Peripheral ischemia > grade 2 (per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 4.0)
Hematemesis, hematochezia, melena or other gastrointestinal bleeding > grade 2
Hemoptysis or other pulmonary bleeding > grade 2
Hematuria or other genitourinary bleeding > grade 2
Patients with other malignancies within 5 years from enrollment, with the exception of non-melanoma skin cancer, cervix in situ
Pregnant women are excluded from this study; breastfeeding should be discontinued if the mother is treated lenvatinib
Nearly 4,000 prescriptions written to help reduce problem drinking
Nalmefene has been on the Irish marker for two years.
By Garreth MacNamee Thursday 29 Dec 2016, 6:00 AM
Dec 29th 2016, 6:00 AM 16,564 Views 7 Comments
http://jrnl.ie/3162304
ALMOST 4,000 PRESCRIPTIONS were made in the last two years for a drug which is designed to help alcohol-dependent people give up alcohol.
Figures obtained by TheJournal.ie show how there have been 3,854 requests for the drug Nalmefene, which is marketed as Selincro in Ireland.
The HSE said 3,094 prescriptions were made under the medical card scheme while 760 prescriptions were written under the drug payment scheme. The drug was designed to combat problem drinking in those who might not see themselves as alcoholics.
Information given by the drug's manufacturer Lundbeck gave examples of the type of people Nalmefene was being aimed at. They included Sue, 39, who "looks forward to a glass of wine after work when the kids go to bed but always finishes the bottle while cooking and eating with her husband, and opens a second bottle a few days each week".
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice) published formal guidance recommending the drug last year.
Lyndsey Dudley, a spokeswoman for Nice, said the drug would be suitable for people who "probably don't even recognise themselves as an alcoholic". She said: "It is much like a patch that you might wear to give up smoking to support you to cut down on your alcohol intake. Some days you might feel stronger than others."
Dr Hugh Gallagher, from addiction centre the One Step Clinic, said a history of mental health problems and the general family make-up, as well as various experiences of the person can together help stop a person falling back into an addiction.
He said: "It's rare not to have a traumatic experience with the people I meet. Domestic violence, bullying in school, which is extremely common, is usually what leads to dependence on a substance. They took cannabis or alcohol, and thought this really hits the spot, and something clicked in their brain.
He described how young to middle-aged women with relatively normal problems in their lives can turn to alcohol.
Gallagher says that there is a problem in Ireland around the perception that alcohol is something to be protected and preserved in society.
Read: There are more strikes looming in the health service >
Read: Russia and Turkey 'have agreed to a Syria ceasefire plan' >
<iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/alcohol-prescriptions-drinking-problem-3162304-Dec2016/?embedpost=3162304&width=600&height=460" ></iframe>
<iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/alcohol-prescriptions-drinking-problem-3162304-Dec2016/?embedpost=3162304&width=400&height=460" ></iframe>
<iframe width="600" height="460" frameborder="0" style="border:0px;" src="https://www.thejournal.ie/https://www.thejournal.ie/alcohol-prescriptions-drinking-problem-3162304-Dec2016/?embedpost=3162304&width=300&height=460" ></iframe>
New study to take place on CBD for dogs | Cannabis wiki
Published Oct 12, 2019 11:00 a.m. ET
iStock / Yelizaveta Tomashevska
Canines who live with and suffer from epilepsy may be getting some extra help soon thanks to a small pilot study at CSU on how to use CBD for your dogs. Stephanie McGrath has thus far led the research on CBD oil for dogs, and she says that she feels the results are promising.
CBD is short form for cannabidiol, which is a chemical compound that is produced in substantial quantities by the cannabis plant. The naturally occurring substance is unlike its cousin tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, as it is not psychoactive for people or humans. Cannabis Oil is a liquid that is derived from the marijuana/hemp plant. The oil is extracted from the plant using a few different methods including, CO2.
Using cannabis oil (CBD oil) for the treatment of epilepsy symptoms in dogs still has not been proven as effective. McGrath tells her patients owners that CBD oil for dogs probably won't hurt, but more studies are needed to know for certain. The benefits of cannabis oil for dogs is endless, and it is most often used to treat seizures, stress, nausea, arthritis, back pain, and symptoms of cancer.
Medical cannabis oil (CBD oil) produces no life-threatening side effects when proper dosage is provided, and in available research so far, there here is no noted damage to the kidney, liver, or GI tract. Another major benefit is that it ill not cause your dog to feel sedated or high.
Methods for administering cannabis oil to your furry friend.
Some topical ointments can be used for ailments your dog may be experiencing, however, the most common form of administering cannabis oil to dogs is through oral application either directly under the tongue, or combined with food. The best dosage for pets like dogs has yet to be determined, which is why when the FDA tested many of the CBD products for pets that are currently on the market, most contained little if any CBD.
As with any medication or wellness compound, there is a possibility of side-effects. Currently, the list of side-effects that might appear in dogs that are using CBD includes some of the same ones that can impact humans:
Lowered blood pressure: A temporary drop in blood pressure has been noticed with high doses of CBD. The reduction in the blood pressure may be slight, but dizziness and light-headedness has been noted.
Dry mouth: Saliva production may be reduced and dogs may experience an increased thirst.
Drowsiness: When using CBD oil for treating anxiety in dogs, some owners have pointed out slight drowsiness along with the powerful calming effects, but this side effects occurs mainly when higher doses of CBD are administered.
Once you and your furry friend's doctor have discussed potential treatment plans, there may be a few things to keep in mind when you are looking to purchase your CBD oil for dogs. Remember that not all CBD oils are the same, and that you will need to buy products of only the highest quality.Making the correct purchase will help to increase the chances of the CBD oil working.
Look for organic oil: It will contain fewer pesticides, solvents, and fungicides.
Don't shop by price: The quality and purity will be reflected in the price, and you need CBD oil that is completely free of additives.
Look for the analysis on the label: The manufacturer should provide a certificate that tells you the amount of CBD that is in the purchased product.
Purchase the CBD as a liquid: You can adjust your dog's dosage when administering in an oil or tincture.
If your dog is displaying some of those problems, you may be interested in CBD snacks for your dog. CBD has calming effects and can reduce anxiety attacks....
Auryxia (Ferric citrate) | CenterWatch
Home » Directories » FDA Approved Drugs » Auryxia (Ferric citrate)
Contact: Akebia Therapeutics
Website: www.auryxia.com
Auryxia (ferric citrate) - 2 Indications
for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with chronic kidney disease; approved September 2014
for iron deficiency anemia in adult patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis; approved November 2017
Auryxia is a phosphate binder indicated for the control of serum phosphorus levels in adult patients with chronic kidney disease on dialysis.
Auryxia is an iron replacement product indicated for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in adult patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis
Scroll down for information on dosing/administration for each indication.
Hyperphosphatemia in Chronic Kidney Disease on Dialysis: Ferric iron binds dietary phosphate in the GI tract and precipitates as ferric phosphate. This compound is insoluble and is excreted in the stool. By binding phosphate in the GI tract and decreasing absorption, ferric citrate lowers the phosphate concentration in the serum.
Iron Deficiency Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease Not on Dialysis: Ferric iron is reduced from the ferric to the ferrous form by ferric reductase in the GI tract. After transport through the enterocytes into the blood, oxidized ferric iron circulates bound to the plasma protein transferrin, and can be incorporated into hemoglobin
Adverse effects associated with the use of ferric citrate may include, but are not limited to, the following:
Indication 1 - for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with chronic kidney disease
Ferric citrate is supplied as a tablet for oral administration. The recommended starting dose is two tablets orally three times per day with meals. Serum phosphorus levels should be monitored and the dose of ferric citrate titrated in decrements or increments of one to two tablets per day as needed to maintain serum phosphorus at target levels, up to a maximum dose of 12 tablets daily. Dose can be titrated at one-week or longer intervals.
Fixed-Dose Trial: Following a one- to two-week washout from all phosphate-binding agents, 154 patients with hyperphosphatemia (mean serum phosphorus of 7.5 mg/dL) and chronic kidney disease on dialysis were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to 1, 6 or 8 tablets/day of ferric citrate for four weeks. Ferric citrate was administered with meals. Subjects receiving one tablet/day were instructed to take it with their largest meal of the day, and subjects on six or eight tablets/day took divided doses in any distribution with meals. Dose-dependent decreases in serum phosphorus were observed by day seven and remained relatively stable for the duration of treatment. The demonstrated reductions from baseline to week four in mean serum phosphorus were significantly greater with six and eight tablets/day than with one tablet/day (p<0.0001). Mean reduction in serum phosphorus at week four was 0.1 mg/dL with one tablet/day, 1.9 mg/dL with six tablets/day and 2.1 mg/dL with eight tablets/day.
Long-term, Randomized, Controlled, Safety and Efficacy Trial: After the two-week washout period during which phosphate binders were held, patients with a mean serum phosphorus of 7.5 mg/dL during washout were randomized 2:1 to ferric citrate (N=292) or active control (calcium acetate and/or sevelamer carbonate; N=149). The majority of subjects were on hemodialysis. The starting dose of ferric citrate was six tablets/day with meals. The starting dose of active control was the patient's dose prior to the washout period. The dose of phosphate binder was increased or decreased as needed to maintain serum phosphorus levels between 3.5 and 5.5 mg/dL, to a maximum of 12 tablets/day. Following completion of the 52-week active-controlled phase, ferric citrate-treated patients were eligible to enter a four-week placebo-controlled randomized withdrawal phase, in which patients were re-randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive ferric citrate (N=96) or placebo (N=96). The study met the primary endpoint by demonstrating a highly statistically significant change in serum phosphorus vs. placebo over the four-week placebo-control period. During the placebo-control period, the serum phosphorus concentration rose by 2.2 mg/dL in the placebo arm relative to the ferric citrate arm. Ferric citrate also demonstrated statistically significant increases in serum ferritin and transferrin saturation (TSAT) and significant reductions in the use of IV iron and erythropoietin stimulating agents vs. an active control of sevelamer carbonate and/or calcium acetate over the 52-week active control period of the study. In addition, mean hemoglobin levels were higher in subjects treated with Zerenex as compared to subjects treated with active control.
Indication 2 - for iron deficiency anemia in adult patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis
Starting dose is 1 tablet orally 3 times per day with meals. Adjust dose as needed to achieve and maintain hemoglobin goal, up to a maximum of 12 tablets daily.
The efficacy of Auryxia for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in adult patients with CKD not on dialysis was demonstrated in a 24-week study consisting of a 16-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, efficacy period followed by an 8-week open-label safety extension period in which all patients remaining in the study, including the placebo group, received Auryxia. Patients with eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73m2 , who were intolerant of or have had an inadequate therapeutic response to oral iron supplements, with Hgb ≥9.0 g/dL and ≤11.5 g/dL, serum ferritin ≤200 ng/mL and TSAT ≤25% were enrolled. Patients were randomized to treatment with either Auryxia (n=117) or placebo (n= 117). Dosing with Auryxia or placebo was initiated at 3 tablets/day with meals. Dose titration could occur at Weeks 4, 8 and 12 during Randomized Period, and at Weeks 18 and 20 during Safety Extension Period based on Hgb response. Use of oral or intravenous iron, erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs) was not permitted at any time during the study.
The main efficacy outcome measure was the proportion of subjects achieving an increase in Hgb of ≥1.0 g/dL at any time point between baseline and the end of the 16-week Randomized Period. During the 16-week randomized period 49% of subjects in the Auryxia arm and 15% of subjects in the placebo arm (p <0.001) had a mean change in hemoglobin from baseline ≥0.75 g/dL over any 4-week time period provided that an increase of at least 1.0 g/dL had occurred during that 4- week period. Increases in mean hemoglobin (0.75 ± 0.09 g/dL), serum ferritin (163 ± 9 ng/mL) and transferrin saturation (18 ± 1%) were observed from baseline during the 16-week randomized period in the Auryxia arm.
