"A confident parent breeds a confident child." Understanding the experience and needs of parents whose children will transition from paediatric to adult care
Heath_et_al_A_confident_parent ...
Transitional care for young people with long-term conditions emphasises the importance of supporting parents, particularly in relation to promoting adolescent healthcare autonomy. Yet little practical guidance is provided and transitional care remains suboptimal for many families. This study aimed to examine how parents understand and experience their care-giving role during their child's transition to adult services, to identify parents' needs and inform service improvements. Focus groups were undertaken with parents of young people with Brittle Asthma, Osteogenesis Imperfecta or Epilepsy. Data were analysed using Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis. Participants (n=13) described how their parenting roles extended beyond what they consider usual in adolescence. These roles were presented as time-consuming, stressful and unrelenting, but necessary to protect children from harm in the face of multiple risks and uncertainties. Such protective strategies were also perceived to hinder adolescent development, family functioning and their own development as mid-life adults. Finding a balance between protecting immediate health and long-term wellbeing was a major theme. Participants called for improved support, including improved service organisation. Recommendations are provided for working with parents and young people to manage the risks and uncertainties associated with their condition, as part of routine transitional care.
Heath, G., Shaw, K. and Baldwin, L. (2020) "A confident parent breeds a confident child." Understanding the experience and needs of parents whose children will transition from paediatric to adult care, Journal of Child Health Care (in press).
http://hdl.handle.net/2436/623281
This is an accepted manuscript of an article published by SAGE in Journal of Child Health Care on 30/06/2020 which can be accessed via the following link: https://doi.org/10.1177/1367493520936422 The accepted version of the publication may differ from the final published version.
You searched for SubjectTerms:Malnutrition - microbiology
Filter by Remove filter malnutrition (4256) 4256
Filter by Remove filter nutrition (1663) 1663
Filter by Remove filter nutritional status (777) 777
Filter by Remove filter diet (722) 722
Filter by Remove filter regression analysis (385) 385
Filter by Remove filter body weight (380) 380
Filter by Remove filter malnutrition - epidemiology (354) 354
Filter by Remove filter dietary supplements (330) 330
Filter by Remove filter morbidity (322) 322
Filter by Remove filter developing countries--ldcs (316) 316
Filter by Remove filter undernutrition (312) 312
Filter by Remove filter people and places (293) 293
Filter by Remove filter anthropometry (290) 290
Filter by Remove filter malnutrition - complications (283) 283
Filter by Remove filter socioeconomic factors (265) 265
Filter by Remove filter body mass (251) 251
Filter by Remove filter nutrition research (243) 243
Filter by Remove filter nutritional-status (241) 241
Filter by Remove filter supplementation (240) 240
Filter by Remove filter nutrition. foods and food supply (237) 237
Filter by Remove filter malaria (228) 228
malnutrition (4256)
1.	A global research agenda for nutrition science
and New York Academy of Sciences, issuing body and Sackler Institute for Nutrition Science, developerWorld Health Organization, developer
2014, Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, Volume 1332., 59
"The field of nutrition sciences has made significant progress in mainstreaming nutrition as central to survival and critical to maintaining health. There are,...
Prevention | Nutrition | Microbiology | Gastrointestinal system | Research | Malnutrition
2.	Full Text Gallibacterium anatis pulmonary abscess
by de Moreuil, C and Hery-Arnaud, G and Fangous, MS and Le Berre, R
MEDECINE ET MALADIES INFECTIEUSES, ISSN 0399-077X, 02/2017, Volume 47, Issue 1, pp. 74 - 76
INFECTIOUS DISEASES | Abscess | Gallibacterium anatis | Escherichia coli Infections - drug therapy | Malnutrition - therapy | Pasteurellaceae - isolation & purification | Lung Abscess - microbiology | Pasteurellaceae Infections - microbiology | Coinfection - drug therapy | Comorbidity | Humans | Bacteremia - drug therapy | Male | Lung Abscess - drug therapy | Malnutrition - complications | Bacteremia - microbiology | Anti-Bacterial Agents - therapeutic use | Coinfection - microbiology | Bacterial Typing Techniques | Pasteurellaceae Infections - complications | Aged | Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization | Parenteral Nutrition | Pasteurellaceae Infections - drug therapy | Escherichia coli Infections - complications
3.	Full Text Hunger and microbiology: is a low gastric acid‐induced bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine a contributor to malnutrition in developing countries?
4.	Full Text Proteobacteria : microbial signature of dysbiosis in gut microbiota
by Shin, Na-Ri and Whon, Tae Woong and Bae, Jin-Woo
Trends in Biotechnology, ISSN 0167-7799, 2015, Volume 33, Issue 9, pp. 496 - 503
Highlights • Members of the phylum Proteobacteria have a low abundance in the gut of healthy humans. • We provide an overview of correlations between a bloom...
Internal Medicine | microbiota | Proteobacteria | dysbiosis | Dysbiosis | Microbiota | SUSCEPTIBILITY | COLONIZATION | BODY HABITATS | HOLOGENOME THEORY | OBESITY | IMPACT | COLITIS | DIET | BIOTECHNOLOGY & APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY | INFLAMMATION | GLUCOSE | Animals | Environmental Microbiology | Dysbiosis - microbiology | Humans | Gastrointestinal Microbiome | Microbiota (Symbiotic organisms) | Studies | Obesity | Nutrition research | Genotype & phenotype | Taxonomy | Homeostasis | Diabetes | Malnutrition | Metabolic disorders | Human | Biotechnology | Microorganisms | Balancing | Communities | Diagnostic systems | Mammals | Signatures
5.	Full Text Gut bacteria that prevent growth impairments transmitted by microbiota from malnourished children
6.	Critical reviews in food science and nutrition
7.	Full Text Persistent gut microbiota immaturity in malnourished Bangladeshi children
9.	Full Text Gut bacteria missing in severe acute malnutrition, can we identify potential probiotics by culturomics?
10.	Full Text Outcomes and Prognostic Features of Patients With Influenza Requiring Hospitalization and Receiving Early Antiviral Therapy
by Maruyama, Takaya, MD, PhD and Fujisawa, Takao, MD, PhD and Suga, Shigeru, MD, PhD and Nakamura, Haruna, MD and Nagao, Mizuho, MD, PhD and Taniguchi, Kiyosu, MD, PhD and Tsutsui, Kiyoyuki, MD, PhD and Ihara, Toshiaki, MD, PhD and Niederman, Michael S., MD
Chest, ISSN 0012-3692, 2016, Volume 149, Issue 2, pp. 526 - 534
Background In Japan, the routine use of early antiviral therapy for patients with influenza is standard. Methods This multicenter prospective cohort evaluation...
Pulmonary/Respiratory | influenza | microbiology | pneumonia | nutrition malnutrition
11.	Full Text Gut Microbiomes of Malawian Twin Pairs Discordant for Kwashiorkor
12.	Full Text Lactobacillus plantarum strain maintains growth of infant mice during chronic undernutrition
Science, ISSN 0036-8075, 02/2016, Volume 351, Issue 6275, pp. 854 - 857
In most animal species, juvenile growth is marked by an exponential gain in body weight and size. Here we show that the microbiota of infant mice sustains both...
HORMONE | METABOLISM | MULTIDISCIPLINARY SCIENCES | RESISTANCE | RECEPTOR | MICROBIOTA | FACTOR-I | BODY GROWTH | SOMATOTROPIC AXIS | EXPRESSION | MOUSE GROWTH | Animals | Diet | Weight Gain - physiology | Gastrointestinal Microbiome - physiology | Mice | Mice, Inbred BALB C | Body Weight - physiology | Lactobacillus plantarum - physiology | Malnutrition - physiopathology | Femur - growth & development | Malnutrition - microbiology | Microbiota (Symbiotic organisms) | Growth | Host-bacteria relationships | Lactobacillus plantarum | Observations | Health aspects | Bacteria | Nutrition | Physical growth | Rodents | Chronic illnesses | Life Sciences
13.	Full Text Sialylated Milk Oligosaccharides Promote Microbiota-Dependent Growth in Models of Infant Undernutrition
Cell, ISSN 0092-8674, 02/2016, Volume 164, Issue 5, pp. 859 - 871
by Platts-Mills, James A, MD and Babji, Sudhir, MD and Bodhidatta, Ladaporn, MD and Gratz, Jean, BSc and Haque, Rashidul, MD and Havt, Alexandre, PhD and McCormick, Benjamin JJ, DPhil and McGrath, Monica, ScD and Olortegui, Maribel Paredes, BSc and Samie, Amidou, PhD and Shakoor, Sadia, MBBS and Mondal, Dinesh, MD and Lima, Ila FN, PhD and Hariraju, Dinesh, MSc and Rayamajhi, Bishnu B, BSc and Qureshi, Shahida, MSc and Kabir, Furqan, MSc and Yori, Pablo P, MPH and Mufamadi, Brenda, BTech and Amour, Caroline, MSc and Carreon, J Daniel, MS and Richard, Stephanie A, PhD and Lang, Dennis, PhD and Bessong, Pascal, PhD and Mduma, Esto, MPH and Ahmed, Tahmeed, MBBS and Lima, Aldo AAM, MD and Mason, Carl J, MD and Zaidi, Anita KM, MBBS and Bhutta, Zulfiqar A, PhD and Kosek, Margaret, MD and Guerrant, Richard L, MD and Gottlieb, Michael, PhD and Miller, Mark, MD and Kang, Gagandeep, MD and
Chapter 9-Psychosomatic Network and the Immune System | Deep t.Issue Therapy & Reiki
Psychosomatic literally means the intuitive body. The word psyche is Greek for intuition. The word soma means body. Bodyworkers, who are licensed health care providers and actually put their hands on the body, absolutely know this. We knew it before it was proven in the lab because we can feel it because we are intuitive or psychic ourselves as well as empathic. In truth, the rest of the medical profession needs to catch up with us.
In the lab at NIH, Ed Blaylock, Dr. Pert's peer, discovered in 1982 that our immune system cells are secreting peptides, most notably endorphins. In fact, the body mirrored the mind. The brain is a big bag of hormones. What is the immune system?
"The immune system is made up of the spleen, the bone marrow, the lymph nodes, and various kinds of white blood cells, some of which circulate throughout the body while others reside in the various tissues of the body, including the skin"-pg. 181
The immune system is a brilliant ally in fighting off invaders that could do us in! Studies have shown that our thoughts and feelings shore up or do in the immune system. The straights don't even question that anymore. Obviously, massage therapy stimulates the immune system directly, especially deep tissue therapy that uses no oil. We go deep in a trouble spot to release the tensions held there that are challenging immunity. Chronic pain taxes the immune system as well. Immune cells also make, store, and secrete the neuropeptides themselves. The immune cells are making the same chemicals that we conceive of as controlling mood in the brain. The fact is, chemokines, lymphokines interleukins, and other immunopeptides can breach the blood-brain barrier that doctors refuse to let go of.
"I like to speculate that what the mind is is the flow of information as it moves among the cells, organs, and systems of the body…The mind as we experience it is immaterial, yet it has a physical substrate, which is both the body and the brain…The mind, then, is that which holds the network together, often acting below our consciousness, linking and coordinating the major systems and their organs and cells in an intelligently orchestrate the symphony of life. It's an information network linking Psyche, which comprises all that is of an ostensibly nonmaterial nature, such as mind, emotion, and soul, to soma, which is the material world of molecules, cells, and organs. Intuitive and rational Mind (left and right brain) and body are psyche and soma.
Article ID: 597118
Released: 10-Dec-2012 4:20 PM EST
Jan Burger, M.D., Ph.D., associate professor in MD Anderson's Department of Leukemia.
Newswise — ATLANTA - A two-prong approach combining ibrutinib and rituximab (Rituxin®) to treat aggressive chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) produced profound responses with minor side effects in a Phase 2 clinical trial at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.
Forty patients with high-risk CLL were enrolled in the study earlier this year. They received:* Daily oral doses of 420 mg ibrutinib throughout treatment* Weekly infusions of rituximab (375 mg/m2) weeks one through four* Monthly rituximab infusions for the next five months
A few highlights from the 4th International Public Policy Conference in Montreal | IHP
Home > Featured Articles > A few highlights from the 4th International Public Policy Conference in Montreal
Between 25th and 28th June, we attended the ICPP2019, short for 'the 4th International Conference on Public Policy 2019'. Our first impression of the conference in Montreal was the overwhelming breadth of policy areas discussed at this international platform. The conference sessions overall gave a glimpse of policy, political and governance issues from a wide array of domains from across the world, common ones being: education, health, water, sanitation, electricity, urbanization, environment, transport, humanitarian issues etc.; the interlinkages across them and resulting complexities; testing, development and application of theories; and different methodologies used in these various sectors.
As public health scientists, we focused first of all on the panels on health policy, where we connected to other health policy experts. In one of these panels, the 'Collaborative Governance and Health Inequities' panel chaired by Sara Van Belle, the first author of this editorial (Deepika) presented her paper on 'Private Sector participation in India's journey towards UHC through Ayushman Bharat: Implications on Accountability'.
The format for the conference sessions was quite different from a typical domain-specific conference (like the HSG symposia): authors had to submit their papers in advance, for the purpose of an open discussion and to receive constructive feedback from an inter-disciplinary audience. A very encouraging formula to get support from the academic 'world', or more specifically, the political scientists, social scientists, anthropologists, etc. who had gathered together for this public policy conference in Montreal.
Below you find some of our personal "highlights", more or less in chronological order.
On Tuesday 25th June, the conference kicked off with a bunch of pre-conference workshops for early career researchers, which we happily attended. The pre-conference workshop by Prof. M. Ramesh (Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, Singapore) on Social Policy Design was by far our favorite. He started the workshop with a simple question: 'as academicians/researchers, how can we help the policy makers?' (policy makers, who are often over-burdened with administrative work, can underestimate their role, and sometimes also find it difficult connecting evidence to practice). Prof. Ramesh led the discussion by highlighting why it is critical for a policy to be effective in solving the problem, more than being efficient. Indeed, if (social) policy fails in addressing the root cause of the problem, the efficiency criterion becomes 'irrelevant'. The four key dimensions of a public policy problem referred to by Prof. Ramesh were: a) identifying the substantive cause of the problematic condition; b) understanding the political conditions affecting the problem and potential solution; c) taking into account the operational constraints to addressing the problem and d) the behavioral factors affecting the target population's response to the solution. An effective policy design must address all four dimensions. In practice, though, it is quite common for one or more dimensions to be ignored. Defining a problem meaningfully is relatively easy in business but a very difficult exercise in the world of policy, as social issues are multi-factorial. Yet, ineffective policies don't remain without effect. And sometimes even governments themselves create problems through policies, to such extent that nobody really knows anymore how to solve, undo or optimize these policies. For example: how can we attain health system integration in a country of which the political system seems to be "ruled by fragmentation" (cfr Belgium)? In some settings, the public health discourse of integration can go against the political reality of fragmentation.
On Wednesday 26th June, the main conference officially began with the welcome note by IPPA (the International Public Policy Association) Chair, Prof. Guy Peters, some young career/researcher awards and the launch of IPPA's official journal – The International Review of Public Policy. The ICPP2019 included three key plenary sessions (on migration, comparative policy analysis and climate change respectively), and eight multi-sessions consisting of 35-40 panels each (i.e. more than 300 panels in total), all packed in three tight programme days.
But you might also wonder what kept us busy in between the sessions. Well, doing our "homework" for the next day turned out already quite time-intensive: to select that "one" particular session you like after reviewing those hundreds of session descriptions and individual abstracts/papers from more than 35 panels per session. This also later became a common point of discussion amongst the conference participants, on how to effectively decide which panel to go to, where friends and groups of people leveraged on (sharing) each other's reflections from their respective individual sessions – indeed a smart way of decision-making and self-organization (maybe we should get a copyright!J). Some nice and healthy breaks with coffee, fresh fruits and lemon infused water helped in easing out the pressure. In addition, each day had a networking event, either in the form of an Early Career Network Reception, Welcome and Closing Drinks, or an extravagant Gala Dinner to help unwind a bit. We do wonder if such conferences could sponsor a few more students/young researchers by cutting just 5-10% of their lavish food-drinks budget.
Let's go straight from the breaks and networking events to the closing plenary then, on climate change.
Prof. Benjamin Cashore (Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies) stole the show at the closing plenary when he spoke about catastrophic effects of climate change. An example that caught our imagination (and not just because they're such cute animals): the link between Oreo Cookies and Orangutans dying out in Indonesia .
Prof. Cashore referred to the Climate Crisis as a super wicked problem for four reasons: a) time is running out (carbon stays in the atmosphere for ~300 years); b) the central authority needed to address this is weak or non-existent; c) those seeking to end the problem are also causing it – many of us are walking contradictions: we care about this, but we fly to far away conferences to talk about it; and d) lastly, the dominant policy responses are irrational based on the scientific evidence.
The policies we tend to come up with, are heavily dominated by international development organisations and policy think-tanks, often using cost-benefit analysis and other solution methods, driving the answers through big data. As public policy researchers (and professors), we need to reflect on the different moral philosophies through which we implicitly prioritize some disciplines, methods, research priorities and funding opportunities over others. It is 'easy to pull policy levers, hard to reverse'.
In conclusion, we from Health Policy and Systems Research, have much to learn from policy applications in other sectors and other complex global problems such as climate change. We need to urgently renew our health policy agendas, be modest of our policy capacities and work better with other disciplines.
The mitochondrion (plural: mitochondria) is the structure in the biological cell that supplies energy to the cell.
Mitochondrial dysfunction can affect every cell of the body, including the cells of the heart. It causes energy deficiency in the muscles (including the heart) and throughout the body.
Nutritional supplements prescribed for mitochondrial dysfunction and for heart disease include: magnesium, CoQ10, l-carnitine, d-ribose, and resvertatrol. Protocols include those of Dr. Stephen Sinatra, MD; Dr. Sarah Myhill, MD, Dr. Jacob Teitelbaum, MD; Dr. Martin Pall, PhD.
Dr. Sarah Myhill, MD states, "Chronic fatigue syndrome is the symptom caused by mitochondrial failure."
Mitochondrial Function Profile test interpreted by Dr. Myhill
by Arnold Peckerman, PhD, et al, The American Journal of the Medical Sciences, August 2003
(See ME/CFS Cardiac Issues)
by Lucy Dechéne, PhD.
Dr. Martin Pall, PhD.
The source of the mitochondrial dysfunction may be the upregulation of the nitric oxide/peroxynitrite cycle, according to the theory developed by Dr. Martin Pall, PhD. (See Neural Sensitization Protocol)
"Mitochondrial/energy metabolism dysfunction is part of the NO/ONOO- cycle mechanism because peroxynitrite attacks a number of components of mitochondria, and nitric oxide and superoxide also inhibit certain mitochondrial functions. 18 different studies provide evidence for mitochondrial and/or energy metabolism dysfunction in CFS/ME. This again provides extensive evidence supporting NO/ONOO- cycle biochemistry in CFS/ME. Among these are studies showing that agents predicted to improve mitochondrial function such as carnitine/acetyl carnitine, coenzyme Q10 and lipids designed to help regenerate the mitochondrial inner membrane are all helpful in the treatment of CFS/ME. These provide evidence that not only is there mitochondrial dysfunction but that it contributes to the CFS/ME pathophysiology."
Dr. Paul Cheney, MD, discussed energy production in a lecture in February, 1999, at the Third International Congress of Bioenergetic Medicine. Measurements of mitochondrial function in CFS patients, he said, showed "significant derangement" that he described as a generalized brown-out. This suggested to him a metabolic cause.
Note: Dr. Cheney currently believes CoQ10 should not be supplemented in CFS.
Dr. David Bell describes reasons to believe that chronic fatigue syndrome, characterized by post-exertional malaise, is a type of mitochondrial disease (see Mitochondrial Cytopathy below) that has not been properly studied.
Recent Research, Treatment, and Testing Experience
CFS Patient Advocate, June 30, 2012
by John Neustadt and Dr. Steve Pieczenik, MD, July 17, 2008
Mitochondrial Cytopathy in Adults: What We Know So Far (Click on PDF for full article)
By Dr. Bruce H. Cohen, MD, and Dr. Deborah R. Gold, MD
Cleveland Clinical Journal of Medicine, July 2001
Lab: MNG Laboratories
Cardiologist Dr. Stephen Sinatra, MD inspired Dr. Myhill's initial work ("CFS is Low Output Heart Failure Secondary to Mitochondrial Failure") on mitochondrial failure. Dr. Sinatra recommends the same supplements for mitochondrial dysfunction in the heart as he recommends for chronic fatigue syndrome. All forms of cardiovascular disease--coronary artery disease, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, and cardiomyopathy--respond to these supplements. Anyone with heart disease should not delay in obtaining Dr. Sinatra's book.
Book: The Sinatra Solution: Metabolic Cardiology
by Dr. Stephen T. Sinatra, MD
Review of The Sinatra Solution
by William Faloon, Life Extension Magazine , September 2005
Mitochondria Treatments
The following article discusses nutrients shown by scientific research to improve mitochondrial function (includes 56 references).
Life Extension Magazine , February 2006
by Sherry Kahn, Life Extension Magazine , February 2006
Life Extension Magazine , August 2006
The following article includes research about multiple sclerosis, chronic fatigue syndrome, neuropathy, and depression:
by Julius G. Goepp, MD, Life Extension Magazine , September 2006
SOD2 and Resveratrol
Superoxide dismutase (SOD) is an antioxidant enzyme. SOD2 is the form found in the mitochondria.
Mitchondrial SOD
Manganese superoxide dismutase in disease (abstract)
by Lee Ann Macmillan-Crow and Danielle L. Cruthirds, Free Radical Research, 2001
Molecular mechanisms of oxidative stress resistance induced by resveratrol: Specific and progressive induction of MnSOD (abstract)
by Ellen L. Robb, Melissa M. Page, Brent E. Wiens, Jeffrey A. Stuart, Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications
367 (2008) 406–412
Dietary resveratrol administration increases MnSOD expression and activity in mouse brain (abstract)
by Ellen L. Robb, Lieke Winkelmolen, Naomi Visanji, Jonathan Brotchie, Jeffrey A. Stuart, Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications
Requisition Number:: 122628
Reporting to the Director of Prospect Systems, Analyst, Prospect Systems is the secondary administrator of the patient development database (Salesforce) and will assist the Director in maintaining and managing data between hospital patient database (Maestro), Salesforce, and University development database (DADD). Perform a variety of duties of a complex and confidential nature involving the collection, interpretation, analysis and documentation of biographical and financial data on prospective donors, including alumni, patients and organizations in support of Duke Health Development and Alumni Affairs (DHDAA) fundraising goals.
You are here: Home / Neck Pain / The Headache, Neck Pain, and Jaw Pain Trio
February 1, 2022 by ChiroTrust
istock / nebari
Temporomandibular dysfunction (TMD) is a painful and disabling condition that affects the joints, muscles, and nerves of the jaw. Those who suffer with TMD experience challenges with opening their mouth, which can make eating solid food impossible or even semi-solid or soft foods challenging. Patients with TMD often experience sharp pain when yawning, and even breathing through the mouth can be uncomfortable in some cases. It's also common for the TMD patient to have trouble sleeping and concentrating, which can make it more difficult to carry out their daily living and work activities. Even worse, TMD can co-occur with neck pain and headaches. These compounded complications can really take a toll on a patient's quality of life. Let's discuss how chiropractic care can benefit the patient with this bothersome trio of conditions.
The current research suggests that the relationship between TMD and headaches/neck pain is potentially bidirectional. That is, dysfunction in the neck may increase the risk for TMD, and likewise, TMD may elevate one's risk for neck pain/headaches. One study that included 116 adults found that those with TMD were significantly more likely to have cervicogenic headaches. Additionally, examinations of 60 TMD patients revealed that most experienced moderate-to-severe impairments in cervical function. Another study found that treatment applied to the temporomandibular joint can improve cervical function in patients with non-specific neck pain. Hence the importance of conducting a thorough examination of patients with jaw and/or neck pain to identify contributing factors beyond the area of chief complaint.
If the function of the temporomandibular joint itself is impaired, a doctor of chiropractic may apply manual therapies, like mobilization, to restore motion to the joint. Treatment may also focus on improving the function of the masticatory, masseter, and temporalis muscles that play a role in chewing and opening and closing the mouth. This can be accomplished with soft tissue therapies and/or myofascial release depending on the patient's unique case. A systematic review found that these treatments are as effective as botulinum toxin injections to relax the affected muscles.
To address cervical dysfunction, a doctor of chiropractic may use a combination of manual therapies, like spinal manipulation and mobilization, along with specific exercises to address weakness in the deep neck muscles that help stabilize the cervical spine. Treatment may extend to the upper back and shoulders as musculoskeletal disorders in these body sites can affect the function on the neck, leading to neck pain and headaches.
Fortunately, these treatments can be applied concurrently, which can provide patients with faster and potentially more satisfactory results. A study that included 38 patients with chronic cervicogenic headaches and TMD found that the combination of orofacial and cervical manual therapies resulted in better short-term and long-term results than cervical manual therapy treatment alone. Additionally, the inclusion of at-home exercises for the jaw and neck muscles may lead to better outcomes with respect to pain and disability.
Chiropractic is a great treatment option for patients suffering from the unhappy trio of TMD, neck pain, and headaches. If necessary, your doctor of chiropractic can co-manage your condition with your dentist and/or medical physician.
I'm a speech language pathologist with over 15 years experience working with people with lifelong disability. I now work and study at The University of Technology Sydney. You can often find me on Twitter sharing and learning with the handle @SP_Harmony.
Leave a Reply to Harmony Turnbull Cancel reply
I will be using this site to build a portfolio of my research and to narrate my experiences and of higher degree research as well as disseminate findings from my research.
accessibility accessible information adventure beginning communication rights conference first steps HDR health literacy human rights information access journey learning patient letters podcast presentation research speech pathology Australia
Irritable bowel syndrome and gastrointestinal disorders are common gut-related issues. Bloated stomach, diarrhea, constipation, and gas are some symptoms of gut-related problems. This problem can be really dangerous but today we have brought forward IBgard, which is formulated to support abdominal comfort. The gastroenterologist-recommended brand is gentle, fast, and reliable to support your abdomen during gut-related issues. So we decided to bring in our IBgard Review. This product works to the source of occasional symptoms and has a fast-action formula.
Furthermore, irritable bowel syndrome worsens when left untreated. It may result in frequent and irregular bathroom visits leading to constipation. Thus, IBgard is a formula that treats gut problems like cramping, diarrhea, cramping, gas, etc. We have dug deep into finding IBgard pros and cons, side effects, dosage, and many factors. Please read on to know its benefits and implications.
In-Depth IBgard Review | What is IBgard?
IBgard is a gastroenterologist-recommended brand that provides daily gut health support. It is formulated to treat occasional abdominal symptoms and utilizes patented Site-Specific Targeting (SST®) technology to help you relieve. In addition, its fast-action formula helps reduce the chances of heartburn. Interestingly, it helps deliver peppermint oil where it is required in the gut. It starts acting in as less as one day.
IBgard is an herbal medical food treatment not approved by the FDA. It is designed to help alleviate the symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome, an often debilitating condition that can be difficult to deal with. Over the course of many weeks, its use has helped many people who suffer from this condition and its associated symptoms cope much easier. This condition can be debilitating for the intestines and is not entirely understood by medical experts. IBgard brand claims to help normalize digestion that Irritable Bowel Syndrome has compromised, help relieve its symptoms, and help balance bacteria in the gut microbiome.
It is suitable for daily use and supports gut health. The capsules are mainly designed to support abdominal comfort. Moreover, IBgard is powered by science and helps manage various occasional symptoms. It has numerous success stories on its official website.
The active ingredient in IBgard is peppermint oil. Peppermint has used historically been used for digestive disorders, as its soothing properties help relax muscles, reduce hypersensitivity and take a bitter edge off the pain. The manufacturers claim that they use “ultra-purified peppermint oil, which is different as they have specially encapsulated “microspheres” of peppermint inside of a slow-release enteric coating.
Capsule-based peppermint products have been shown to be more effective and have reduced side effects compared to standard peppermint supplements. These capsule-based products are a convenient way for users to take the supplement and can be easily contained in a purse or pocket for use when one is on the go. The website of these products also encourages the people who are suffering from IBS to consult their doctor before using their products.
Ibdard is an over-the-counter product that has been clinically tested and proven to improve symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome within 24 hours, making it a great example of the benefits that can be achieved by those who suffer from IBS. IBgard has developed a unique, triple-coated formula microspheres of peppermint oil, that delivers a capsule and 45% concentrated peppermint oil to the small intestine.
To support these claims, there are various clinical trials that were done. One such trial results have been overwhelmingly positive in the test group where 61% of the patients needed only 1-2 capsules to get relief from IBS symptoms which include abdominal pain.
Some products to try from IBgard | IBgard Product Details
Some products to try from IBgard:
IBgard
IBgard with Vitamin D
1. IBgard
IBgard Daily Gut Health Support Dietary Supplement
$29.48
6 new from $29.29
Free shipping
Buy on Amazon.com
Amazon.com
as of November 28, 2022 12:55 pm
It is designed for abdominal comfort and contains ultra-purified peppermint oil. It is clinically shown to manage occasional symptoms like cramping, gas, bloating, diarrhea, bowel urgency, and others. It starts working in as less than twenty hours. Moreover, the herbal ingredients facilitate recovery faster. In addition, the product is available in various sizes like 12 ct, 48 ct, etc.
IBgard ingredients
It contains ultramen peppermint oil as the active ingredient. Furthermore, its other ingredients include microcrystalline cellulose, Hypromellose, gelatin, Methylcellulose, Less Than 1% Of Triethyl Citrate, Polysorbate 80, Titanium Dioxide (Color), Yellow 5, Green 3 and Methacrylic Acid Copolymer. Peppermint oil has various benefits for gut health. For example, it helps relieve stomach cramps and farting when having irritable bowel syndrome.
IBgard suggested dosage
Adults should take two capsules, once or thrice daily. They should consult with a healthcare professional. In addition, they should take it thirty to ninety minutes before the meal with water. The official website also suggests not to exceed eight capsules a day. Furthermore, if you miss the pre-meal dosage of IBgard, please take it with or after the meal.
2. IBgard with vitamin D
IBgard Daily Gut Health Support with Vitamin D
$34.87
Buy on Amazon.com
Amazon.com
as of November 28, 2022 12:55 pm
The primary difference with this IBgard product is the vitamin D content. It provides 25 mcg of vitamin D to help your gut. Additionally, it delivers 180 mg of ultra-purified peppermint oil to your system. The product supports bone and immune health for a better gut. It states that people with any GI symptoms may benefit from vitamin D content.
IBgard with vitamin D ingredients
It comprises ultramen peppermint oil and vitamin D as cholecalciferol as the active ingredients. In addition, the other ingredients include microcrystalline cellulose, gelatin, Hypromellose, etc.
IBgard with vitamin D dosage
Adults should take two capsules daily. They can also ask the healthcare provider for more information. It can be taken thirty to ninety minutes before the meal with water. The official website suggests not to exceed six capsules a day. Furthermore, people can also take IBgard with or after the meal when the pre-meal dose is missed.
IBgard side effects
The makers of IBgard do claim that their product is encapsulated and also have a microsphere design that can minimize a few of these symptoms.
As with any dietary supplement, one should opt for adequate precautions. IBgard may suit some people as it is not a magical formula to cure gut problems instantly for everyone. People may face side effects when not used properly or have allergies to ingredients. Peppermint oil is a natural substance that has been used for centuries as an effective way to promote digestion. Some of its possible side effects may include heartburn and burning around the anus after digestion. The makers of IBgard do claim that their product is encapsulated and also has a microsphere design that can minimize a few of these symptoms. The IBgard side effects may include nausea, vomiting, etc. Please consult the doctor if these conditions worsen or hamper your health.
Furthermore, some people have allergic reactions to some ingredients. Therefore, knowing the allergies and skin reactions before a dietary supplement is essential. There are many positive results for many customers, and success stories depict no significant side effects with IBgard.
Buy on Amazon.com @Amazon.com
What can you expect from IBgard?
Of course, one should have the patience to observe the results of a dietary supplement. Interestingly, IBgard is a valuable gut support supplement that starts working in less than twenty-four hours. Thus, you need not worry about the results for a prolonged time. However, the only requisite is to be consistent and take the capsules daily for better results.
Furthermore, it is a gastroenterologist-recommended brand, so one can be confident in using IBgard. Occasional abdominal symptoms do not let us focus on other meaningful life activities. So, IBgard helps manage these symptoms daily to lead a quality of life. People can take IBgard capsules daily to manage such symptoms.
Buy on Amazon.com @Amazon.com
How can you take IBgard?
Adults should use IBgard after taking the doctor’s approval. Children should not use it; they should use other medication and feasible techniques to relieve abdominal symptoms. IBgard contains peppermint as the active ingredient. Thus, it is not viable to state that it is just peppermint oil. Furthermore, peppermint oil is uniquely formed in tiny spheres in three coating layers. Hence, the three layers work to release peppermint oil to the source of occasional symptoms. A gradual release is a gentle approach to relieving the abdominal symptoms. Hence, unlike single coating technology, the product has a unique formula to relieve many symptoms.
Additionally, it has other ingredients that add to its overall effectiveness. IBgard is a valuable product that helps treat occasional abdominal symptoms in many ways. It uses ultra-purified peppermint oil to support your gut. IBgard customer success stories help us a lot in understanding its benefits. Thus, IBgard facilitates the stomach with peppermint oil. Since time immemorial, peppermint oil has been used as a traditional remedy to treat cough. In addition, it helps relieve gut issues like cramping, bloating, and others.
IBgard Daily Gut Health Support with Vitamin D
$34.87
Buy on Amazon.com
Where can you buy IBgard? | IBgard Pricing
It is recommended to take a total of six capsules of IBgard daily for four weeks when IBS symptoms are active. This is because taking IBgard daily results in a significant improvement in symptoms. While the cost of a 48-capsule box IBgard on Amazon is $29.48, which would last about 8 days, when you don't have any active symptoms, it is recommended that you take only 2 capsules. You can also buy IBgard from other online retailers like (Nestlé Health Science) Walmart, Target, CVS, Rite Aid, and Walgreens. The cost would vary depending on the retailer.
Symptoms of Irritable bowel syndrome
Irritable bowel syndrome influences the large intestine and results in abdominal pain. Its symptoms include gas, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, and others. These are the mild symptoms, and they even worsen when you do not treat them properly. The severity of irritable bowel syndrome may reduce with some stress management activities and lifestyle changes. However, these tactics may not work for everyone in every situation. It is essential to see the doctor when the intensity of the syndrome increases. If you experience difficulty swallowing and frequent vomiting, please visit the doctor. In addition, you must not take unexplained diarrhea lightly.
Causes of irritable bowel syndrome
It is essential to know the potential causes of irritable bowel syndrome. Moreover, the major cause would be bacterial infections in the digestive tract. In rare situations, unpleasant or unhappening life events can cause the syndrome. In addition, food intolerances may cause irritable bowel syndrome in most people. Many times, some mental disorders like anxiety and depression cause such syndrome. It is better to treat irritable bowel syndrome before it worsens and causes other problems.
IBgard Daily Gut Health Support Dietary Supplement
Daily Gut Health Support: IBgard is clinically shown to promote abdominal comfort, including a combination of symptoms of cramping, bowel urgency, diarrhea, constipation, bloating, and gas
Gastroenterologist Recommended: IBgard is specially formulated for the daily management of abdominal symptoms, shown to start working in as little as 24 hours
Free shipping
Last update was on: November 28, 2022 12:55 pm
$29.48
Buy on Amazon.com
🌟 IBgard FAQs
Is IBgard safe?
After reading many of the reviews online, IBgard seems to be safe but for short-term use. At the same time, some people can experience heartburn or anal burning because of peppermint oil. Also, in some rare cases, few people might also be allergic to peppermint oil.
Does IBgard really work?
Research conducted on 72 patients in 2016 showed that IBgard worked well in reducing the symptoms of IBS. Also, a study that was done in 2017 showed that peppermint oil could temporarily reduce the symptoms of IBS.
Can IBgard be considered a probiotic?
No, IBgard is not a probiotic product as probiotics contain microorganisms that offer other health benefits to the body, whereas IBgard intends to treat irritable bowel syndrome symptoms by using the chemical properties of methanol within the peppermint oil as its active ingredient.
Can you take IBgard daily?
As stated in our IBgard review, the recommended adult dosage is 2 capsules three times a day. It should be taken at least 30 to 90 minutes before each meal with water. You should not take more than six capsules per day.
Does IBgard work immediately?
IBgard has come up with a unique triple-coated, sustained released formula that delivers a capsule with 45% I-Menthol (concentrated peppermint oil) to the small intestine. Research even concluded that 75.6% of patients surveyed reported improvement in the symptoms of Inflammatory Bowel Disease within 1-2 hours.
Does IBgard give you relief from acid reflux?
Our review found that IBgard is not intended to treat or cure acid reflux. The only comment we can make is that IBgard has a unique enteric coating that can reduce acid reflux in comparison to uncoated peppermint products. In contrast, some people can even develop acid reflux by taking peppermint oil products.
Can IBgard work on gases?
IBGard releases peppermint oil into the digestive tract of its users, which helps to relax the bowel and relieve discomfort. You can take it either as a source of relief or as preventive medication to avoid experiencing any gastrointestinal issues.
Can you take IBgard without doctors prescriptions?
IBgard® does not require a prescription, but it must be used under medical supervision. You also need to know that IBS requires diagnosis from a proper health care physician. The adult dosage of IBgard is about 2 capsules per day.
Can you take IBgard empty stomach?
IBgard must be taken with water empty stomach at least 30–90 minutes before a meal. Also, people with any medical condition should consult a doctor taking IBgard or any supplemental product for safety purposes.
Whats the difference between IBgard and Peppermint Oil?
As discussed in our review, peppermint oil is the active ingredient in IBgard. Also, IBgard is advertised as being different from the standard peppermint oil products as it has a special coating that allows the oil to reach the small intestine.
Can IBgard help in constipation?
As discussed in our review, IBgard has shown significant improvement in a group of patients with IBS with both constipation and diarrhea. It has also shown improvement in patients with diarrhea-predominant IBS.
After how many hours after meal can you take IBgard?
You can take IBgard pills 30 to 90 minutes before your meal with water. And if you miss your pre-meal dose, you can take it after your meal as well.
Which probiotic is best for IBS?
Probiotics are essential to the digestive health of many people, and Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium probiotics are among the best strains to consider taking for Irritable Bowel Syndrome. You can also look for gluten-free brands which have a high number of colony-forming units(CFU) to get the best results. Another strain is the S. boulardii, which is a beneficial strain that is yeast.
Final Words: IBgard Review
IBgard has useful products with many valuable active ingredients to support gut health. It does so with its peppermint oil, which has many benefits for your digestive health. Of course, we need more data and research to find more benefits of peppermint oil for gut health. Irritable bowel syndrome can cause various problems in the later stages of life, so an effective treatment and diagnosis is required. It can hamper your quality of life and even result in bad constipation and unpleasant bathroom visits. We hope our detailed IBgard review helps you know the product for gut health. Again, we will develop an exciting article to boost your understanding.
That’s all for now! Stay tuned with us for more updates.
Disclaimer: The information in this article is from different internet sources and may update. We advise you to consult your healthcare provider before availing yourself of any IBgard products. Before use, you should know its pros and cons, benefits, side effects, drawbacks, and other implications.
9.5Expert Score
IBgard Review
IBgard uses peppermint oil to help the digestive tract, so it can help you with any digestive issues.
Ingredient quality
9.5
Value for money
9.5
Flavor
9
Easy to swallow
10
Comfort
9.5
Pros
IBgard has peppermint oil and delivers purity in an ultra-purified form.
The ones having gut problems and fed up with bloating and cramping can use it.
The product comes as capsules and is viable to take premeal.
The best thing is it is feasible for the ones who miss the premeal dose.
It can also be taken with the meal
hence people need not worry about the dosage.
It covers many gut problems in a unique solution.
The gastroenterologist-recommended brand also works after a meal.
IBgard helps the digestive tract with peppermint oil, so it helps you relieve any problems related to the gut.
It works for gas and bloating.
IBgard is safe when used correctly.
Cons
Its effects may also vary from person to person.
IBgard with vitamin D
IBgard is specially designed to promote abdominal comfort; it begins to work in as little as 24 hours.
$33.13
Order Now
Daily Gut Health Support for Abdominal Comfort
IBgard Review 2022: How Long Does It Take to Start Working?
$33.13
Order Now
Related Articles
Erectin Review 2022: Is this Male Enhancement Supplement Worth Buying?
Eu Natural Conception Male Fertility Vitamins Review 2022: Is it Worth Buying?
PlantFusion Complete Plant Protein Review 2022: Is it Worth Buying?
Pump Serum Stimulant Free Pre Workout Review 2022: Is it Worth It?
We will be happy to hear your thoughts
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
FitnessBuzz is a top-notch blog that delivers informative articles on health supplements, nutrition, fitness, lifestyle, diet, and many more. We provide premium & comprehensive health-related content that helps users to make a healthy change in their life.
Let’s lead a healthy life with FitnessBuzz!!
Top Articles
Keto Fuel Review 2022
Neuriva Review
Vitauthority Multi Collagen Protein Review
Bio Complete 3 Review
Quick Links
About
Privacy Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
Disclaimer
Contact
Terms & Conditions
Sign Up for the Latest Deals & Offers
Subscribe to get the best deals & coupons direct to your inbox.
Fitnessbuzz.net is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. We may earn from qualifying purchases. The content on this website is for informational and educational purposes only and is not for medical advice.
© 2022 FitnessBuzz | All Rights Reserved | Fitnessbuzz.net does NOT provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment.
