UNICEF welcomed the funds as it battles to support children affected by school closures and global lockdown measures.
Thunberg's own absences from school - the weekly Fridays for Future rallies - have been moved online because of the pandemic.
Europe struggles to exit lockdown: Germany sees rise in... Denmark says it has coronavirus under control with 9,000...
The 'domino' effects of the pandemic include 'food shortages, congested health care systems, violence and lost educational opportunities,' UNICEF said.
Although children have not suffered so heavily from the virus itself, the UN warns that the economic crisis could cause hundreds of thousands of child deaths.
Downsview Orthopaedic and Arthritis Centre | Dr. J Smith Auguste | Dr. Barry Cayen | Dr. Sebastian Rodriguez Elizalde | Orthopaedic Surgeons
Downsview Orthopaedic and Arthritis Centre
806 Wilson Ave.
M3K 1E5
Tel: 647-748-1005
Fax: 647-748-1007
info@orthopedicsurgery.ca
www.orthopedicsurgery.ca
www.downsviewoac.com
Dr. J Smith Auguste | home | patients | news | contact | blog
+Home.......Patients.......News.......Contact.......Bio.......Surgery.......Clinic.......Blog
Downsview Orthopaedic and Arthritis Centre is a full service physical therapy and rehabilitation clinic in North York, Ontario offering a comprehensive array of treatments ranging from traditional physiotherapy modalities to orthopaedic surgical treatments, registered massage therapy, orthotics, custom knee bracing, viscosupplementation and other musculoskeletal injection therapies. We house three orthopaedic surgeons affiliated with Humber River Hospital.
Explore Physiotherapy Modalities Here.
0 Physiotherapy
0 Exercise Programs
0 Post Operative Rehab
0 Custom Bracing
0 Foot Care and Orthotics
0 Viscosupplementation
0 PRP Injections
0 Functional Braces/Casts
0 WSIB Rehabilitation
0 Motor Vehicle Accidents
Physiotherapy is not just for patients who have recently had surgery, although it does offer a great way to regain motion, strength and eliminate pain, swelling and weakness.
People with back pain, sport injuries, chronic fatigue and even those starting a new weight loss or fitness program can benefit from various physical therapy modalities.
Physical therapy traditionally involved the use of heat, electrical stimulation and water applications to aid movement and function. After World War II, physiotherapists slowly began to align themselves with medical practitioners and today, the profession is a field within the realm of medical practice with referrals from not only chiropractors and sport trainers, but doctors, physiatrists and surgeons alike.
Today physiotherapies include a wide range of treatments from traditional heat therapy and electricity (TENS) to manipulation, shock wave therapy, and exercises including stretches, strengthening and cardio. Some physical therapist employ accupuncture, spinal traction and parafin treatments. Many physical therapy clinics employ or are affiliated with chiropractors who engage in spinal and extremity manipulation and adjustments. As the lines between "alternative" therapies and mainstream medicine blur in this era of health consciousness and preventive medicine, physiotherapists are an integral part of the holistic healthcare experience.
1st Edition - October 9, 2004
Editors: Hiroshi Masuhara, Satoshi Kawata
View series: Handai Nanophotonics
Nanophotonics: Integrating Photochemistry, Optics and Nano/Bio Materials Studies.Is an interdisciplinary research text on the application of nanophotonic (physical/chemical) research and effects in devices for applications, bridging a gap between conventional pthotophysics/photochemistry and nanoscience.Nanophotonics is a new wide research field related to photochemistry, photobiology, and photophysics in nanodimension. Under the keywords of "Photo" and "Nano", advanced scientific topics, such as spectroscopic analysis of from single molecules to nanomaterials, nanofabrication by photons, detection of single bio-molecules, near field optics, and so forth, are described here.The book is written by experts in the field of photochemistry, optics, material science, bioscience, and so on for providing advanced knowledge of nanophotonics. Nanophotonics is a new research field that is not included in any conventional discipline but widely cover evolving and promising research subjects under the keywords of "Light" and "Nanoscale". Topics included in the book are concerned with photodynamics: from single molecules to nanoparticles, spectroscopy and imaging in nanodimensions, nanofabrication, synthesis, analysis and control of nano/bio systems and so on, the book is finalized by topics of toward molecular nanophotonics. This is written primarily for graduate students, researchers, and engineers.
Chapter 10: Polarization optimized focusing of light and coupling to sub-wavelength antennae
(G. Leuchs, S. Quabis).
Chapter 12: Identification of surface adsorbates by scanning tunneling microscope light emission spectra
(Y. Uehara, S. Ushioda).
Chapter 15: Novel fabrication techniques for nanostructures of functional organic molecules
(H. Yoshikawa et al.).
There are currently no reviews for "Nanophotonics: Integrating Photochemistry, Optics and Nano/Bio Materials Studies"
The Center for Innovation in Medicare Advantage - Better Medicare Alliance
Introducing the Center for Innovation in Medicare Advantage
The Center for Innovation in Medicare Advantage (CIMA) is a new sister organization and research arm to the Better Medicare Alliance.
The mission of the Center for Innovation in Medicare Advantage is to present the evidence of the quality, cost-effectiveness, and value of care provided to Medicare beneficiaries by conducting and, working closely with Better Medicare Alliance, disseminating non-partisan, timely, and credible research and analyses on the latest developments in Medicare Advantage and identifying recommendations to enhance and improve both coverage and care.
CIMA partnered with ATI Advisory to conduct a study on the role of telehealth and virtual care in meeting the needs of Medicare beneficiaries during the Coronavirus (COVID-19) public health emergency. This report offers findings from the first months of the pandemic as a way to gain early lessons learned on the urgent response that led to broad adoption of telehealth. Through data analysis and stakeholder interviews, ATI Advisory identified factors accelerating delivery of telehealth in the new environment, and barriers to fulfilling its full potential.
Empowering Beneficiaries and Modernizing Medicare Enrollment
In this report, CIMA presents a set of comprehensive recommendations to reimagine Medicare enrollment, thereby empowering beneficiaries to make better sense of their options and become active choosers in their health coverage. The report, conducted by Health Management Associates (HMA), offers a five-part plan, including designating the Department of Health and Human Services as the agency solely responsible for Medicare enrollment and administration and initiating earlier beneficiary engagement.
Positive Outcomes for High- Need, High-Cost Beneficiaries in Medicare Advantage Compared to Traditional Fee-For-Service Medicare
This CIMA report, with analysis conducted by Avalere Health, examined data on more than 1.4 million Medicare Advantage beneficiaries and 7.9 million Traditional Medicare beneficiaries, finding that Medicare Advantage outperforms Traditional Medicare on a broad range of quality measures – ranging from pneumonia and flu vaccines to diabetic eye exams, post-acute care, and avoidable hospitalizations. The study population included the frail elderly, those with complex chronic conditions, and those individuals under 65 years old who are in Medicare due to a disability. These high-need beneficiaries were matched using new analytic tools not previously used for such studies.
In this report, Better Medicare Alliance and researchers from NORC at the University of Chicago examine the current limitations of patient experience measurement in the Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS) survey of Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug (MA-PD) plans. The report offers policy recommendations to modernize the survey while improving its accuracy and usefulness.
This report, commissioned by Better Medicare Alliance's Center for Innovation in Medicare Advantage (CIMA) and conducted by NORC at the University of Chicago, examines current approaches to social determinants of health in Medicare Advantage and offers policy recommendations to spur further innovation in this space.
Board members of the Center for Innovation in Medicare Advantage are experts in their field who possess deep knowledge of U.S. health care and Medicare Advantage with a keen interest in advancing understanding of Medicare Advantage among new audiences.
Opiate Addiction is an Epidemic - Clear Recovery Center
Opiate Addiction is an Epidemic
Home » Our Blog » Opiate Addiction is an Epidemic
I was in my first year of Graduate School at the University of Washington when I injured myself in a movement class. I herniated a disc in my lower back and was in extreme pain. L5. I had five years of sobriety under my belt, attended AA meetings, had worked the 12-steps of Alcoholics Anonymous and thought I had a strong and lasting foundation of sobriety. So when I was offered painkillers and muscle relaxants for my back, I thought I would be fine.
I was prescribed Vicodin for the pain and Valium for the inflammation. I neglected to tell the Doctor that I was a recovering addict and alcoholic, my first mistake. I picked up my prescriptions at the school pharmacy and took the first dose. Immediately I felt different. The pills triggered that odd mental switch and the physical craving that are unique to drug addicts and alcoholics. Once the pills were in my system, the foundation of sobriety I had built disintegrated. I was an addict experiencing pain relief and wanting more.
Painkillers were never my drug of choice, I had struggled in the past with alcohol and other forms of drugs, but never painkillers. They made me nauseous, itchy and tired. But before long I was abusing the Vicodin and Valium. I started to hide my pills around the house so my fiancé wouldn't know how much I was taking. I took more than prescribed. Then I began to buy Adderall from friends so I could get high on my pain medication and stay awake for school. I started to manipulate and lie to doctors so I could get prescribed more and more. I was taking up to 12 Vicodin and 12 Valium a day to function. It was only a matter of time before I started drinking again. Just like that five years of sobriety went down the tubes.
Opiate Addiction is an Epidemic in the United States
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, more than 115 people in the United States die after overdosing on opioids a day. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that the total "economic burden" of prescription opioid misuse alone in the United States is $78.5 billion a year, including the costs of healthcare, lost productivity, addiction treatment and criminal justice involvement.
Opioids are a type of narcotic pain medication. They can have serious side effects if not taken correctly. Opioids work by binding to opioid receptors in the brain, spinal cord and other areas of the body. They reduce the sending of pain messages to the brain and reduce feelings of pain.
Some types of opioid drugs include:
In the late 1990's, pharmaceutical companies reassured the medical community that patients would not become addicted to prescription opioid pain relievers, and healthcare providers began to prescribe them at higher rates. We know these medications are highly addictive and lead to more significant drug abuse. About 80 percent of people who used heroin first misused prescription opioids. An estimated 4-6 percent of people who misuse prescription opioids transition to heroin.
Painkillers have High Risk for Physical Dependence
Physical dependence occurs when a person uses the drug substantially for a period of one week to ten days. Psychological dependence results after the drugs are abused for a longer time. Signs of psychological abuse can be determined if a patient shows an incapacity to control their craving for the drug and an unrelenting usage despite the obvious negative consequences on their work, personal, financial, social or health aspects of their lives.
It is not suggested to detox from opiates on your own. One opiate abuser stated that he would never forget being a grown man and lying on the floor of a rehab crying for someone to put him out of his misery because his withdrawal was so painful and severe from opiates. The detoxification process from opiates usually begins with tapering off. It is best to do this in a nurse assisted facility because opioid withdrawal can be very uncomfortable and unpleasant. It is not until someone can detox from the substances they are physically addicted to before they can begin significant treatment and abstain from future drug abuse.
Review – Wasim Akram speaks at the seminar 'Quality of Life' |
Review – Wasim Akram speaks at the seminar 'Quality of Life'
Roche Pakistan Limited's premier Diabetes care brand, Accu-Chek Performa organized a series of seminars to spread diabetes awareness among two very important groups, retailers and diabetes patients. These seminars were held at Avari Towers Karachi on June 04, 05, 2011.
In the first seminar entitled "Quality of Life", a group of retailers was informed about the negative impact that diabetes has on a patient's quality of life and how regular blood sugar monitoring with a quality meter can help patients regain health and happiness. The theme for the second seminar was "Walk for Diabetes". This seminar informed diabetes patients about the benefits that can be gained from taking regular walks.
The chief guest for these seminars was the cricketing legend, Wasim Akram who has been associated with Roche since 2005 in its endeavor to promote diabetes awareness and has been the brand ambassador for Accu-Chek Performa since 2009. Also present was a panel of acclaimed diabetologists who shared the medical importance of walking for diabetics and impact and ways to improve quality of life after being diagnosed.
Wasim Akram shared his experience with diabetes and told retailers about how his quality of life had been severely hurt after being diagnosed with Diabetes at the peak of his cricketing career. His parents never had diabetes and neither did he have any other such family history, yet he had to face this life altering disease. He brought his life back on track and started taking 4 insulin shots per day and checking his blood sugar levels before and after every meal, on the advice of his doctor. He went on to take 250 plus wickets in international cricket after the diagnosis, silencing the skeptics who suggested that his international career was over.
On the 5th of June Wasim Akram spoke to an audience of patients and told them what measures he takes to maintain his health. He walks or jogs for an hour daily, no matter how tight his schedule is. He eats everything that he likes but watches his portions and always starts every meal with a bowl of salad to ensure that he is getting a healthy and balanced diet. Putting forward a very important question to our panel of doctors; he asked how diabetics above the age of 60 can exercise. He received the reply that the simplest exercise that applies to all age groups is brisk walking i.e. walking at approximately 4km/hr for men and 3 km/hr for women. It is adequate to walk even for just half an hour, three days a week.
These seminars were extremely informative and imparted an immense amount of diabetes awareness, which has been the goal in Roche and Wasim Akram's long and fruitful association.
GRASP Special Seminar - Kosta Derpanis, York University, On the Role of Spacetime Orientation for Representing and Analyzing Dynamic Visual Imagery with Applications - GRASP Lab GRASP Special Seminar - Kosta Derpanis, York University, On the Role of Spacetime Orientation for Representing and Analyzing Dynamic Visual Imagery with Applications - GRASP Lab
GRASP Special Seminar – Kosta Derpanis, York University, On the Role of Spacetime Orientation for Representing and Analyzing Dynamic Visual Imagery with Applications
December 18, 2009 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm
« Celebrating 50 Years of Robotics: Symposium and Poster Session
Spring 2010 GRASP Seminar – Roger Brockett, Harvard University, "Poisson Processes and the Design of Finite State Controllers" »
Abstract: An approach to representing visual spacetime with a distributed oriented energy representation will be presented. This representation systematically exposes the structure of visual spacetime in terms of local 3D spacetime orientation. Advantages of this abstraction will be illustrated via two important applications: (1) spatiotemporal grouping and (2) human action detection and localization. The overarching goal is to establish a unified approach to representation and analysis of visual image dynamics that is broadly applicable to the diverse phenomena encountered in the natural world. Previous research largely has approached the analysis of visual dynamics by appealing to representations based on image motion. Although of obvious importance, motion represents a particular instance of the myriad spatiotemporal patterns encountered in image sequences. Examples of non-motion-related patterns of significance include, unstructured (e.g., "blank wall"), temporal flicker (pure temporal intensity change), and dynamic texture (e.g., as typically associated with stochastic phenomena, such as windblown vegetation and turbulent water). These types of dynamic patterns have received far less attention than motion and fail to be captured by the standard vector field representation embodied by optical flow-based approaches. In contrast, the presented representation allows for the description of motion and non-motion-related patterns in a uniform manner.
Sleep duration, sleep hygiene, and insomnia in adolescents with asthma. - PubMed - NCBI
1 selected item: 25213049
J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2014 Sep-Oct;2(5):562-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jaip.2014.02.005. Epub 2014 Apr 13.
Meltzer LJ1, Ullrich M2, Szefler SJ3.
Department of Pediatrics, National Jewish Health, Denver, Colo. Electronic address: meltzerL@njhealth.org.
Department of Psychiatry, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colo.
There is a need to understand more about modifiable health behaviors that may be related to asthma control. Sleep is one such health behavior that has received little attention in pediatric asthma research.
To examine sleep duration, sleep hygiene, and insomnia in adolescents with and without asthma.
Adolescents (n = 298; 51% boys; age range, 12-17 years; 48% with asthma) from the general community completed an online survey that included the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood questionnaire, the Children's Report of Sleep Patterns, and the Insomnia Severity Index.
Sleep duration did not differ between the asthma severity groups, yet more adolescents with severe asthma reported insufficient weekday sleep (44%) versus adolescents without asthma (31%). Significant asthma group differences were found for sleep hygiene, with adolescents with severe asthma reporting poorer sleep hygiene. Almost twice as many adolescents with severe asthma reported clinically significant insomnia than adolescents with mild or no asthma. Sleep hygiene variables were correlated with insomnia, although these associations did not differ between adolescents with and without severe asthma. Finally, both insomnia severity and asthma severity were significant predictors of daytime sleepiness; however, asthma severity accounted for only 2% of the variance compared with 28% of the variance accounted for by insomnia severity.
Many adolescents with severe asthma regularly obtain insufficient sleep, have poor sleep hygiene, and experience clinically significant insomnia. It is important to ask adolescents with asthma about sleep duration, sleep hygiene, and insomnia because there are effective interventions that can improve sleep for these youths.
Adolescents; Asthma; Sleep; Sleep deprivation; Sleep disorders
25213049
PMC4163200
10.1016/j.jaip.2014.02.005
Flow diagram of participant recruitment. ISAAC definitions(): aAsthma Ever: Positive response to question "Have you ever had asthma?" bCurrent Wheeze: Positive response to "Have you ever had wheezing or whistling in the chest at any time in the past?" and "Have you had wheezing or whistling in the chest in the past 12 months?" cSevere Asthma: Positive response to Current Wheeze and in the past 12 months had () >4 attacks of wheeze or () >1 night per week sleep disturbance from wheeze or () wheeze affecting speech
J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. ;2(5):562-569.
Percent of adolescents with and without asthma meeting CDC criteria for insufficient (< 7 hours), borderline (7 to 9 hours), and optimal (≥ 9 hours) sleep duration on weekdays.
Frequency of adolescents with and without asthma reporting no insomnia (ISI score 0 to 7), subthreshold clinical insomnia (ISI score 8 to 14), or moderate/severe clinical insomnia (ISI score ≥ 15).
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Receives Priority Review in Canada for Patisiran, an Investigational RNAi Therapeutic for the Treatment of Hereditary Transthyretin-mediated Amyloidosis (hATTR amyloidosis) with Polyneuropathy | Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
– Health Canada Grants Priority Review to promising medicines intended for the treatment of serious, debilitating or life-threatening conditions –
TORONTO, Canada, Sept 24th, 2018 – Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq: ALNY), the leading RNA interference (RNAi) therapeutics company, announced today that Health Canada has granted Priority Review status to patisiran. Priority review is granted to regulatory filings in Canada intended for new potentially life- saving treatments where there is no existing medicine on the Canadian market or where the new medicine represents a significant improvement in the benefit/risk profile over existing products. Currently there are no approved treatments for patients with hATTR amyloidosis in Canada.
Many serious, chronic and life-threatening diseases, such as hATTR amyloidosis, are caused by a fault or mutation that interferes with the way the body manufactures proteins. RNAi is a completely new approach to the treatment of these diseases; targeting the faulty protein that is causing the disease rather than treating the symptoms. The discovery of RNAi was awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2006. RNAi therapeutics are an entirely new class of medicines.
"We are delighted to have received Priority Review status for patisiran and look forward to continuing to work closely with Health Canada during the review process," said Jeff Miller, Country Manager, Alnylam Canada. "The Priority Review underscores the urgent need for an approved treatment for Canadian patients with hATTR amyloidosis, an aggressive, rapidly progressive, debilitating and fatal disease."
The regulatory submission in Canada for the treatment of patients with hATTR amyloidosis will be based on data from the APOLLO Phase 3 study. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, global Phase 3 is the largest-ever study conducted in hATTR amyloidosis patients with polyneuropathy, and enrolled patients in Canada. The results were published in the July 5, 2018, issue of The New England Journal of Medicine.
"In Canada, patients diagnosed with hATTR amyloidosis, and their families, face an uncertain future and poor prognosis, with no treatments approved to halt or reverse the progression of the disease. In the APOLLO study, patisiran-treated patients saw an improvement in their polyneuropathy symptoms, quality of life and ability to undertake day-to-day tasks, compared to those treated with placebo. Priority review designation for patisiran is an excellent step here in Canada, and I am looking forward to the outcome of the regulatory process", said Dr. Vera Bril, Professor of Medicine at the University of Toronto, Director of Neurology at University Health Network and Mount Sinai Hospital and the Krembil Family Chair in Neurology.
"We are delighted that Health Canada has granted Priority Review status to patisiran, which hopefully means Canadians with hATTR amyloidosis will soon have access to this important therapy. We are optimistic that this signals the beginning of a brighter future for patients in Canada living with this devastating, fatal disease that can affect families over generations," said Durhane Wong-Rieger, President and CEO, Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders (CORD).
Patisiran, based on Nobel Prize-winning science, is an intravenously administered RNAi therapeutic targeting transthyretin (TTR) for the treatment of hereditary ATTR amyloidosis. It is designed to target and silence specific messenger RNA, potentially blocking the production of TTR protein before it is made. Patisiran blocks the production of transthyretin in the liver, reducing its accumulation in the body's tissues in order to halt or slow down the progression of the disease. In August 2018, patisiran received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for the treatment of the polyneuropathy of hATTR amyloidosis in adults, as well as European Medicines Agency marketing authorization for the treatment of hATTR amyloidosis in adults with Stage 1 or Stage 2 polyneuropathy. In Canada, the safety and efficacy of patisiran are still under review and market authorization has not yet been granted.
Hereditary transthyretin (TTR)-mediated amyloidosis (hATTR amyloidosis) is an inherited, progressively debilitating, and often fatal disease caused by mutations in the TTR gene. TTR protein is primarily produced in the liver and is normally a carrier of vitamin A. Mutations in the TTR gene cause abnormal amyloid proteins to accumulate and damage body organs and tissue, such as the peripheral nerves and heart, resulting in intractable peripheral sensory neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, and/or cardiomyopathy, as well as other disease manifestations. hATTR amyloidosis represents a major unmet medical need with significant morbidity and mortality, affecting approximately 50,000 people worldwide. The median survival is 4.7 years following diagnosis, with a reduced survival (3.4 years) for patients presenting with cardiomyopathy. In Canada, there are no approved treatment options that can modify the course of the disease and there remains a pressing need for novel medicines to help treat these patients.
RNAi (RNA interference) is a natural cellular process of gene silencing that represents one of the most promising and rapidly advancing frontier in biology and drug development today. Its discovery has been heralded as "a major scientific breakthrough that happens once every decade or so," and was recognized with the award of the 2006 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine. By harnessing the natural biological process of RNAi occurring in our cells, a major new class of medicines, known as RNAi therapeutics, is on the horizon. Small interfering RNA (siRNA), the molecules that mediate RNAi and comprise Alnylam's RNAi therapeutic platform, function upstream of today's medicines by potently silencing messenger RNA (mRNA) – the genetic precursors that encode for disease-causing proteins – thus preventing them from being made. This is a revolutionary approach with the potential to continue to transform the care of patients with genetic and other diseases.
Various statements in this release concerning Alnylam's future expectations, plans and prospects, including, without limitation, Alnylam's views with respect to data supporting the Canadian regulatory submission and the potential implications of such data for patients, plans for regulatory filings in other markets and expectations regarding the company's "Alnylam 2020" guidance for the advancement and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics, constitute forward- looking statements for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results and future plans may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important risks, uncertainties and other factors, including, without limitation, Alnylam's ability to discover and develop novel drug candidates and delivery approaches, successfully demonstrate the efficacy and safety of its product candidates, the pre-clinical and clinical results for its product candidates, which may not be replicated or continue to occur in other subjects or in additional studies or otherwise support further development of product candidates for a specified indication or at all, actions or advice of regulatory agencies, which may affect the design, initiation, timing, continuation and/or progress of clinical trials or result in the need for additional pre-clinical and/or clinical testing, delays, interruptions or failures in the manufacture and supply of its product candidates, obtaining, maintaining and protecting intellectual property, Alnylam's ability to enforce its intellectual property rights against third parties and defend its patent portfolio against challenges from third parties, obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval, pricing and reimbursement for products, progress in establishing a commercial and ex-United States infrastructure, successfully launching, marketing and selling its approved products globally, Alnylam's ability to successfully expand the indication for patisiran in the future, competition from others using technology similar to Alnylam's and others developing products for similar uses, Alnylam's ability to manage its growth and operating expenses, obtain additional funding to support its business activities, and establish and maintain strategic business alliances and new business initiatives, Alnylam's dependence on third parties for development, manufacture and distribution of products, the outcome of litigation, the risk of government investigations, and unexpected expenditures, as well as those risks more fully discussed in the "Risk Factors" filed with Alnylam's most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in other filings that Alnylam makes with the SEC. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent Alnylam's views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing its views as of any subsequent date. Alnylam explicitly disclaims any obligation, except to the extent required by law, to update any forward-looking statements.
Despite its disastrous effects, COVID-19 offers some gifts to medicine – an immunology expert explains what it can teach us about autoimmune disease - George Onin Lending Mortgage Services
The immune system is the most powerful weapon against infection. But on rare occasions, something devastating happens: The immune system turns against its own body – a condition that researchers call autoimmunity. This can result in any of a wide range of autoimmune disorders. They include rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and
