Keytruda Improves 5-Year Survival for People With Advanced Lung Cancer - Cancer Health
Keytruda Improves 5-Year Survival for People With Advanced Lung Cancer
The immunotherapy drug shows the most benefit for newly treated people with tumors that test positive for the PD-L1 biomarker.
June 5, 2019 • By Liz Highleyman
The checkpoint inhibitor Keytruda (pembrolizumab) continues to be a safe and effective treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), leading to an improvement in overall survival at five years, according to long-term follow-up data presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) annual meeting in Chicago.
In the KEYNOTE-001 study, which began enrollment at the dawn of the immunotherapy era, nearly a quarter of people who had not previously been treated with chemotherapy and about 15% of treatment-experienced patients were still alive five years later, reported Edward Garon, MD, of the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine in Los Angeles. In contrast, people treated with chemotherapy historically had a five-year survival rate of around 5% before the arrival of immunotherapy.
"The uniformly negative outlook that has been associated with a diagnosis of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer is certainly no longer appropriate," Garon said. "The fact that we have patients on this trial that are still alive after seven years is quite remarkable. We also have evidence that most patients who are doing well after two years on pembrolizumab live for five years or more."
Non-small-cell lung cancer, which accounts for more than 80% of all lung cancers, is often detected late and has a high mortality rate. Initial treatment typically involves chemotherapy. People with specific tumor mutations may be eligible for targeted therapies, including ALK and EGFR inhibitors, but these mutations are present only in a minority of patients.
Keytruda is a PD-1 checkpoint inhibitor, a type of immunotherapy that helps the immune system fight cancer. PD-1 is a receptor on T cells that plays a role in regulating immune function. Some tumors can hijack PD-1 to turn off immune responses against them. Drugs that block PD-1 or its binding partner, known as PD-L1, can release the brakes and restore T-cell activity. People with higher PD-L1 levels in their tumors tend to do better on checkpoint inhibitors, but this is not a reliable predictor of individual response.
KEYNOTE-001, the first clinical trial of Keytruda for people with NSCLC, started enrollment in 2011. It included 550 people with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, 101 of whom had not previously received other treatments. They did not have ALK or EGFR mutations that would make them eligible for targeted therapies. Among the untreated participants, 27 had tumor PD-L1 expression levels of 50% or higher and 52 were in the 1% to 49% range. Among the previously treated patients, 138 had PD-L1 expression levels of 50% or higher, 168 had levels of 1% to 49% and 90 had levels below 1%.
All participants in this Phase Ib study received Keytruda at a dose of 2 or 10 milligrams per kilogram of body weight every two or three weeks; today, the usual dose is 200 mg every three weeks regardless of weight.
Initial results showed a favorable overall response rate, meaning complete or partial tumor shrinkage, especially in the subgroup of participants with PD-L1–positive tumors. Based on these data, Keytruda received accelerated approval for people with advanced NSCLC in 2015. However, rapidly approved therapies are required to undergo further evaluation to ensure that they offer clinical benefit—ideally improved survival—with longer follow-up.
As of November 2018, at which point participants had been followed for a median of 60.6 months, 18% of them were still alive. The estimated five-year overall survival (OS) rates were 23.2% for previously untreated people and 15.5% for treatment-experienced patients.
Breaking these groups down further, the OS rates were highest for those with PD-L1 expression levels of 50% or higher: 29.6% for previously untreated people and 25.0% for treatment-experienced patients. In contrast, the OS rate was only 3.5% for previously treated people with less than 1% PD-L1 expression.
Garon further reported that the overall response rates—consisting mostly of partial responses—were 41.6% for previously untreated participants and 22.9% for those who had been treated before. However, the duration of response was longer in the treatment-experienced group (16.8 months versus 38.9 months, respectively).
Among the 60 participants who received Keytruda for two years or more, the overall response rate was 86.0% and the OS rate was 78.6% for the previously untreated group, and 91.0% and 75.8%, respectively, for the treatment experienced group. In the latter group, the median duration of response was not reached because a majority were still responding.
Keytruda continued to appear generally safe and well tolerated with longer follow-up. A concern with checkpoint inhibitors is that in addition to restoring immune responses against cancer, they can unleash the immune system more broadly, leading to inflammation of healthy organs. At five years, 17% of patients had experienced such immune-mediated adverse events, similar to the rate reported at three years of follow-up. The most common immune-mediated side effect was hypothyroidism.
"These data are similar to what we have seen in other cancers treated with immunotherapy in that there is a population of patients who can live for five years or more," ASCO expert David Graham, MD, of the Levine Cancer Institute in Charlotte, North Carolina, said in a press release. "It's truly remarkable that for more patients than ever before, we no longer have to count survival in months. However, we still have a long way to go to improve outcomes for all advanced NSCLC patients."
Shribman, Samuel, et al. (författare)
Ingår i: Movement disorders : official journal of the Movement Disorder Society. - 1531-8257.
Outcomes are unpredictable for neurological presentations of Wilson's disease (WD). Dosing regimens for chelation therapy vary and monitoring depends on copper indices, which do not reflect end-organ damage.To identify a biomarker for neurological involvement in WD.Neuronal and glial-specific proteins were measured in plasma samples from 40 patients and 38 age-matched controls. Patients were divided into neurological or hepatic presentations and those with recent neurological presentations or deterioration associated with non-adherence were subcategorized as having active neurological disease. Unified WD Rating Scale scores and copper indices were recorded.Unlike copper indices, neurofilament light (NfL) concentrations were higher in neurological than hepatic presentations. They were also higher in those with active neurological disease when controlling for severity and correlated with neurological examination subscores in stable patients.NfL is a biomarker of neurological involvement with potential use in guiding chelation therapy and clinical trials for novel treatments. © 2020 University College London. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Metronidazole For Dogs: What it is Used for and Guidelines for Safety
Jan 04, 2016 | 3 Minutes
Dog owners today are armed with more tools for keeping their dogs healthy and fit than ever before. Modern medicine has radically improved how well, and how long, our companion animals live. For both humans and dogs, antibiotics continue to be a potent ally in the fight against disease and infection.
Metronidazole, commonly known by the brand name Flagyl, is a strong antibiotic primarily used as an anti-diarrheal to treat inflammation of the large intestine. It is also used for other illnesses and conditions in dogs, cats, and horses, as well as to treat bacterial infections in humans. It is often used in combination with other antibiotics.
Metronidazole is a prescription-only medication that can be taken orally or externally, depending on the illness being treated. It is not yet approved by the FDA for veterinary use (it is approved for human use), but metronidazole is commonly prescribed by veterinarians for their canine patients.
Like most antibiotics, metronidazole is prescribed to treat a variety of conditions, and to relieve their symptoms, such as:
Giardia is a microscopic parasite that lives in a dog's intestine. It is transmitted by infected water, soil, or food. Photo courtesy of CDC
Metronidazole works by destroying and preventing the creation of DNA in the infecting organisms.
Unlike most other drugs, metronidazole is able to treat central nervous system infections by penetrating the blood-brain barrier. In order to thrive, your dog's body parts need good circulation and oxygen. Tissue that is damaged usually has poor oxygen circulation. In these areas, only certain pathogens that do not require oxygen can thrive. Metronidazole inhibits repair enzymes in the cells that exist in these unoxygenated (anaerobic) environments.
Metronidazole is considered very safe. However, it should not be prescribed to pregnant females or young puppies. It may also not be suitable for pets with:
As with any medication for your pet, always speak to your vet before use, and tell her about any other medicine your dog is taking and other medical conditions. Be cautious when using the drug for extended periods of time, since adverse effects are more common during long-term use.
Does Metronidazole Have Side Effects?
Though it's rare, contact a vet right away if your pet suffers any neurotoxic effects, such as paralysis in all four legs, or has an allergic reaction—hives, rash, rapid heartbeat, or difficulty breathing. An allergic reaction can become dangerous quickly, or even life-threatening.
Some common side effects your dog may experience:
Gagging/regurgitation
Dogs who receive too much of this medicine, or those treated with metronidazole for extended periods of time, will need emergency veterinary attention if they experience:
Irregular or abnormally slow heartbeat
Intestinal inflammation, parasites, bacterial infections, and their accompanying symptoms, such as diarrhea, are serious adversaries for our dogs. Thankfully, we are able to utilize powerful medical weapons such as metronidazole to help keep them from harm.
Do you have trouble giving your dog medication? Here are a few tips.
Note: This article is designed to help inform you about metronidazole (Flagyl) in dogs and is not meant to take the place of veterinary advice and consultation.
Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Merck Veterinary Manual, PetMD, Veterinary Place, WebMD
Aviation Data Privacy – Passenger Information Regulations | WCC Group
Cross Border crime is one of the biggest challenges for law enforcement, so effectively managing passenger data is a high priority for government agencies; that's why regulations for passenger information exchange are in place to better detect, investigate and prevent criminal activities.
This second part of our blog on Aviation Data Privacy describes passenger information measures that keep passengers safe and borders secure. We'll also introduce you to HERMES, WCC's innovative solution for border security and passenger control. In addition, we explain how HERMES can protect borders from illegal transit and control the health of passengers while meeting the demands made by privacy legislation.
Find out more about Privacy Legislation in the first part of our blog.
Passenger information exchange regulations
Advance Passenger Information (API) is mandatory for all United Nations member states. It usually comprises data found in the Machine Readable Zone (MRZ) of passports and other travel documents. An API dataset contains biographic data for all passengers and crew members and flight details supplied by the aircraft operator. The digital transmission of API data to border control agencies occurs prior to departure. In the EU, API is used to combat terrorism and illegal immigration, covering all incoming flights. In the interest of privacy, border control agents can only store the data for up to 24 hours.
Passenger Name Record (PNR) is personal information provided by passengers and collected and held by airlines. It includes information such as the passenger's name, travel dates, itineraries, seats, baggage, contact details, and means of payment. The PNR directive regulates the transfer of such data to EU member states' law enforcement authorities. It also governs their use of the data to prevent, detect, investigate, and prosecute terrorist offenses and serious (cross border) crimes.
When processing PNR data for regular business purposes, the air carriers need to comply with the accountability principle imposed by the GDPR legislation. They need to ensure that the PNR data does not exceed what is necessary for booking and reservation purposes. As accountable controllers, the carriers need to comply with the transparency principle.
The directive prohibits the collection and use of sensitive data. In addition, PNR data can only be kept for 5 years and must be depersonalized after 6 months, so the data subject is no longer immediately identifiable.
E-Health data & the aviation industry
During the COVID-19 global pandemic, the need for test records to confirm uninfected people and vaccination certificates became evident. However, medical information is extremely sensitive, raising privacy concerns.
Digital vaccine passports may rely on storing medical information in a centralized database. As a result, individuals' vaccination data may be vulnerable to data breaches, government surveillance, or corporate misuse. Privacy risks depend heavily on what privacy and security measures are in place and which entities can access the data.
Inevitably, the disclosure of vaccination information raises serious ethical issues. In addition, the increasing disparities of vaccination rates among more vulnerable populations can infringe personal freedom, for example, by restricting access to a range of public and private activities.
To reduce risks regarding the protection of sensitive health data, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) has focused on finding solutions for the aviation industry. In their role as arbiters for global standards in airline safety, security, efficiency, and sustainability, they came up with an answer: The IATA travel pass.
The IATA Travel pass lets you verify that passengers comply with COVID-19 health requirements. It secures a digital version of your passport on your mobile phone, and it can link your COVID test results or proof of vaccination to your verified identity, alongside your travel information.
Governments issue digital vaccine certificates that you can upload to the app. This data is encrypted and saved on the certificate holder's smartphone, which circumvents the need for a central database. Furthermore, nobody but the data owner can access and share this information. Therefore, it's a secure solution that travelers, airlines, and governments can trust.
WCC Group Integration
HERMES, WCC's innovative solution for border security, is a person-centric, integrated border security solution for screening Advance Passenger Information (API) and Passenger Name Record (PNR) data while maximizing security and passenger convenience. As a result, HERMES ensures both state-of-the-art security and optimum passenger flow at all kinds of borders, airports, and seaports.
At the same time, HERMES can screen passengers' data using the COVID-19 Health Dashboard. The Health Dashboard processes IATA Travel Pass information to determine whether a passenger is vaccinated against COVID-19 or whether the traveler possesses a negative COVID test certificate. The passenger's health data remains on their smartphone, and passengers can choose whether or not to share this information.
Border agents obtain the information needed to maintain health security with this solution. At the same time, passengers can be confident about their data privacy. As a result, they are allowed to travel without the inconvenience of being deprived of entering certain countries and also mitigate the risk of an unnecessary quarantine period when crossing borders.
Mr. Roelof Troost, the WCC Group's ID &Security business unit VP, said:
"Passenger data will be moving to and from countries in great quantities from now on. Passenger data will be shared more frequently, and between many different agencies."
Therefore, it is clear that there is a growing demand to ensure there is legislation designed to guarantee the protection and privacy of data and for technological solutions to help law enforcement. WCC continues its commitment to providing software that matters and fosters a safer world.
Chloroquine Grp | Canada Pharmacy
Chloroquine Grp | Trusted Online Store!
Home Hydroxychloroquine Plaquenil > Chloroquine grp >
Discussion in 'Hydroxychloroquine Plaquenil' started by max5555, 11-Mar-2020.
Plaquenil help migraine Plaquenil and headaches Hydroxychloroquine and skin discoloration Hydroxychloroquine plaquenil adverse effects
Chloroquine phosphate, a medicine that has been in the market for many years, has proven effective in treating #COVID19 and shows positive clinical effects China's Ministry of Science and Technology. A group of researchers in France are testing a less toxic derivative of the chloroquine drug called hydroxychloroquine on a few dozen patients with COVID-19, and early reports of the trial. Chloroquine binds to heme or FP to form the FP-chloroquine complex; this complex is highly toxic to the cell and disrupts membrane function. Action of the toxic FP-chloroquine and FP results in cell lysis and ultimately parasite cell autodigestion. In essence, the parasite cell drowns in its own metabolic products.
Chloroquine Uses, Side Effects & Warnings -, What is chloroquine? Trump, Elon Musk tout possible.
Medscape - Indication-specific dosing for Aralen, Chloroquine phosphate chloroquine, frequency-based adverse effects, comprehensive interactions, contraindications, pregnancy & lactation schedules, and cost information. Aralen chloroquine is an antimalarial drug used for the treatment of malaria and extraintestinal amebiasis. Common side effects are reduced hearing, tinnitus, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Dosage, drug interactions, and pregnancy and breastfeeding safety are provided. Multicenter collaboration group of Department of Science and Technology of Guangdong Province and Health Commission of Guangdong Province for chloroquine in the treatment of novel coronavirus pneumonia. At the end of December 2019, a novel coronavirus COVID-19 caused an outbreak in Wuhan, and has.
1208427, 11-Mar-2020 16:11
Chloroquine has long been used in the treatment or prevention of malaria from Plasmodium vivax, P. malariae, excluding the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum, for it started to develop widespread resistance to it. How does Antimalarial Chloroquine Phosphate help against. Is Chloroquine a Cure for Coronavirus? Scientists Say. Chloroquine Phosphate - WebMD
Golinkov, 26-Feb-2020 14:42
Chloroquine is the generic form of the brand-name prescription medicine Aralen, which is used to prevent and treat malaria — a mosquito-borne disease caused by a parasite — and to treat amebiasis, an infection of the intestines caused by a parasite. Chloroquine - Wikipedia Chloroquine Oral Uses, Side Effects, Interactions, Pictures. Chloroquine Side Effects Common, Severe, Long Term.
pogasiy, 03-Mar-2020 17:43
Apixaban oral Eliquis Oral Drug Interactions - Serious Interaction. Identify these serious apixaban oral Eliquis Oral drug interactions with the RxList drug interaction checker tool.
Cerebral aneurysm: What happens when the brain bleeds - Firstpost
Myupchar Sep 06, 2019 14:46 PM IST
Globally three in 100 people may have an unruptured, asymptomatic aneurysm
Aneurysms in the back of the brain are much more likely to rupture than aneurysms in the front arteries of the brain
Most aneurysms get diagnosed accidentally when a person goes for a CT scan, MRI or other tests
A cerebral aneurysm is a condition marked by the ballooning of arteries in certain areas of the brain. These arteries then become weak and prone to rupture - in some cases, this may cause a brain stroke or haemorrhage. According to an estimate, about 3% of the world's population suffers from the condition, with a higher prevalence among women over 50.
When an aneurysm bursts, it leads to subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) - in layman's terms, brain bleeds. SAH accounts for 0.4% to 0.6% of all the deaths in the world, with almost 76,500 to 204,100 new cases in India every year.
Representational image. Image by toubibe from Pixabay
Many notable people have suffered from SAH, including the American actress Sharon Stone and Canadian singer and songwriter Neil Young. In March 2019, Game of Thrones actor Emilia Clarke (Daenerys Targaryen) said she had suffered two brain bleeds while shooting the earlier seasons of the show.
Here's a detailed overview of what is a cerebral aneurysm, and why so many cases go undetected until there's a potentially fatal brain bleed.
Though the exact cause of aneurysms is not known yet, experts think they may have something to do with high blood pressure, brain trauma, atherosclerosis (blocked arteries because of cholesterol build-up) or may even be hereditary.
There are also many theories about why aneurysm forms. These range from structural fatigue of the arterial walls (which can happen in hypertensive people) to inflammation mediated by the immune system.
In a recent study which was done by the University of Sussex in collaboration with the University of Seattle, USA, researchers discovered that some forms of brain aneurysms may be caused due to a genetic mutation in the PDGFRB gene, which is also responsible for various developmental disorders in human beings.
Studies have found that a type of anticancer drug-receptoror tyrosine kinase inhibitors - can successfully be used to treat aneurysms. Though drug testing is still in progress, it is something to look forward to as a revolutionary step in identifying and resolving aneurysm causes.
Unruptured aneurysms only present symptoms if they are large enough to press against the brain. Then, they may present in the form of blurred vision, eye pain, headache, facial pain and problems with speaking. Ruptured aneurysms can cause a very sharp and severe headache with stiffness in the neck, light sensitivity and fainting.
Since most aneurysms do not show any apparent symptoms — until the person has a stroke — they can be difficult to diagnose. According to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, UK, about 25% people with a ruptured aneurysm die within the first 24 hours or six months due to complications, and those who survive, suffer neurological damage or loss of certain brain functions.
Statistics are even worse in India. In 'Need for brain aneurysm treatment registry of India: How effectively are we treating intracranial aneurysms in India?', an article published in Neurology India, a publication of the Neurological Society of India, Sudheer Ambekar, a fellow at the University of Miami, said that about 40% aneurysms in India are fatal. We still need a multilevel approach, including a national registry to identify and treat cerebral aneurysm cases effectively, he explained.
There are limited treatment options for aneurysms today. Treatment usually includes minimally invasive procedures such as endovascular coiling. In this procedure, instead of opening the skull, a coil is introduced into the body through the femoral artery and placed onto the aneurysm to stop the bleeding. Another treatment method is surgical clipping, where the skull is opened to control bleeding from the aneurysm site. A third option is flow diverters that can help to reduce the size of the aneurysm and keep it from bursting.
The future, however, looks promising. There's new research on how to find an aneurysm before it turns fatal. The most recent among these is a tiny device developed by researchers at Stanford University - it uses a deep learning model called the HeadXNet to find possible aneurysms in the brain with a CT scan. If and when they can be used in clinical practice, these devices could have tremendous possibilities for preventing death by bleeding in the brain.
This article was created by myUpchar, India's first and biggest online resource for verified medical information. For more in-depth information on all things health, please visit www.myupchar.com/en. For more details on this topic, please see: https://www.myupchar.com/en/disease/brain-aneurysm
Updated Date: Sep 06, 2019 14:46:45 IST
Tags : Aneurysm Symptoms, Aneurysms, Brain Aneurysm, Brain Aneurysm Causes, Brain Aneurysm Treatment, Brain Bleeds, Brain Haemorrhage, Brain Stroke, Cerebral Aneurysm, Endovascular Coiling, High Blood Pressure, NewsTracker, Subarachnoid Haemorrhage
The TEI system is a method of treatment that builds on electronic stimulation of the muscles and infrared heat (that goes up to 4cm deep into the body tissue) and has several treatment areas because of its 21 effective programs. With these programs the TEI system can treat:
A treatment takes 45 minutes and for the best results it is recommended to take at least 10 treatments. In some cases results can be noticed after only one treatment, but every one has a different body composition and every one will therefore need a different number of treatments to reach the desired results. The needed number of treatments off-course also depends on what you are treated for and what your goal with the treatments is.
The treatments are done on naked skin, which means that you will have to be undressed down to your underwear during the treatment. (You will be offered some form of cover like a blanket or a sheet during the treatment so you won’t feel naked)
The electrodes are covered with a contact gel which can feel very cold when it comes in contact with your skin. Be prepared for that.
The treatments are, or can be quite strenuous, so expect that you will sweat. For this reason, and the previous one, it is advised to bring an extra set of underwear.
You will be offered a small towel and warm water to dry yourself off with, so you leave the clinic with a fresh feeling.
Because the treatment is strenuous and you will sweat it is important to stay hydrated. Be sure to drink therefore before and after the treatment. During the treatment it can be hard to drink, since you will be lying on your back, but if needed you off-course will be assisted with for example a straw.
Be sure to go to the bathroom before the treatment starts; the heat and the electrical stimulation could affect your bladder and bowels, and could give an uncomfortable feeling during treatment.
Caution should be kept for people with high blood pressure since the treatment could cause unconsciousness in these cases.
The results of this treatment can vary, just like with all treatments, from person to person. Some can see the effect after just one treatment, while for others it can take 5 or more. Unfortunately we can’t change anything about how our bodies are constructed. It also depends on your goal with the treatments and how effective you can do each.
The TEI system has several “activity levels” in both warmth and electricity, and the higher level you as patient ask for, the more effective the treatment will be.
There are loads of factors that affect our body and our physical health: sleep, diet, physical activity, alcohol consumption, tobacco and stress just to name a few. These factors even have an effect on the TEI treatment itself and by keeping in mind to sleep well, eat good (a balanced diet with little sugar and fat), exercise just a bit more, avoid drinking alcohol (or at least not drink until intoxicated) or the use of tobacco and try to stress less, you can reach results much faster.
The neurointerventional procedure room of the future: predicting likely innovations in design and function | Journal of NeuroInterventional Surgery
Alexander Norbash1,
Lloyd W Klein2,
David Haines3,
Stephen Balter4,
Lynne Fairobent5,
Donald L Miller6 on behalf of the members of the Multispecialty Occupational Health Group
2Department of Medicine, Rush Medical College, Chicago, Illinois, USA
3Department of Medicine, Beaumont Hospitals, Royal Oak, Michigan, USA
4Departments of Radiology and Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, USA
5American Association of Physicists in Medicine, College Park, Maryland, USA
6Department of Radiology, F Edward Hebert School of Medicine, Uniformed Services University, Bethesda, Maryland, USA
Correspondence to Professor A Norbash, Department of Radiology, Boston University School of Medicine, 820 Harrison Avenue, FGH3, Boston, MA 02118, USA; norbash{at}bu.edu
The Multispecialty Occupational Health Group, as part of their work, have considered likely characteristics of the neurointerventional surgery operating room of tomorrow. Such rooms will be distinguished by certain architectural features and markedly increased information technology features. The novel architectural features will include system proximities, such as embedding the procedure room next to traditional operating rooms, anesthesia recovery units, intensive care units or the emergency department. Novel features will likely also include distinct, contained, open sided control areas for technical and medical staff, integrated modular multimodality capability for non-ionizing extravascular and endovascular imaging and therapeutic tools, and various additional described distinct features. Information technology features will permit importation of multiple imaging datastreams, quality and performance monitoring, measuring and exportation, and utilization trajectory matched automated inventory systems. Additional needs will likely include streaming imaging and physiologic information channels, in selected instances supplemental cross sectional and metabolic imaging equipment, robotic intermediaries and more formally designated stations for datastream and scrub technologists.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/jnis.2010.004424
Adapted from: Klein L et al. The catheterization laboratory and interventional vascular suite of the future: anticipating innovations in design and function. Cathet Cardiovasc Interv 2011 (in press).
Competing interests JG: (1) consultant to and equity owner in InfraReDx, Inc, which makes intravascular imaging technology; and (2) Eco Cath Lab Systems, designer of Radiation Shielding Systems (equity owner).
WHEREAS, it is estimated that nearly seven million people currently live with chronic wounds and that number is expected to grow by more than two percent annually for the next decade; and
WHEREAS, the rising incidence is fueled by an aging population and increasing rates of diseases and conditions such as diabetes, obesity and the late effects of radiation therapy; and
WHEREAS, untreated chronic wounds can lead to diminished quality of life and possibly amputation of the affected limb; and the chronic wound epidemic represents a cost of more than $50 billion to the health care system; and
WHEREAS, more than 37.3 million people — 11.3% of population — have diabetes in the United States; and America's diabetic population is expected to nearly double by 2030, and therefore it is important to know the risks associated with diabetic foot ulcers since it is expected that almost two million people will develop a diabetic foot ulcer or other non-healing wound; and
WHEREAS, advanced wound care aims to prevent amputations and heal patients in a faster and more cost-effective way
WHEREAS, wound care physicians and health care providers take great pride in caring for their patients, and seeing their patients succeed; and
NOW, THEREFORE, I, STEVE SISOLAK, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF NEVADA, do hereby proclaim the week of June 5 - 11, 2022, as
Injury Tips: How a Chiropractor Can Help These days, people believe a chiropractor is only good at pain management. In fact, some people don’t even know how chiropractic healing works. Aside from managing chronic pain and other pain-related problems, a chiropractor can help sports enthusiasts greatly. A good number of reliable chiropractors have been working alongside athletes and other sports enthusiasts for the past decade or so. If you’ve noticed, some of the biggest sports icons have credited their success to their coaches while they credit their good health to their chiropractors.
If you are always active or you’re into a certain sport, it is best to consult with a chiropractor. You may already know this from watching your favorite sports icons but there are a lot of physical activities in the sports world that can affect the performance of your muscles and spine. Regular training can strain the body and sometimes, you may feel fatigued. If you’re not careful, you may even sustain injuries while doing the sport. Through the help of a reliable chiropractor, you can improve your tolerance of pain and you can heal well. Recovery and healing is sometimes a very difficult goal for a lot of injured sports enthusiasts. Chiropractic care is one of the most trusted methods if you want to avoid dependency on medication. To achieve the healing process that does not depend on medication, there are non-invasive and drug-free alternatives. Drug dependency is very common in the sports world but you can choose not to be one of them. Spinal decompression and cold laser therapy are just some of the effective alternatives that can be done for healing. If you’re not on the road to recovery for a certain injury, you can still ask help from a chiropractor if you’re suffering from body pains such as your hands, feet, back, and others. A trusted chiropractor is well-educated and experienced in the different kinds of injuries that sporty people sustain. Before going through any healing procedures, your chiropractor will study your medical history to ensure that the procedure will work well for you. You will also be advised on how you should behave after the procedure. Make sure you follow the advice of the expert so healing can be faster and less painful. Most people who have relied on chiropractors have testified of pain-free procedures and they saw the changes even just after one session. The experience will either be the same or a little bit different depending on the injury you’ve sustained or the levels of pain you feel before the procedure. You will also get good advice on diet, sleep patterns, training, and other related aspects to make sure healing will be faster. The best chiropractor will always provide you with the necessary information you need before and after each procedure. Chiropractic care is the most trusted alternative to medication for healing and recovery. Through this method, you can learn how to handle different body pains without the need to rely on pain killers.
SD Sharma, P Phadnis, S Gajbhiye. Pharmacovigilance: Its awareness and impact – Study in a tertiary care teaching medical college in central India. International journal of pharmaceutical research and bio- science. 2013; issue 2(3)
S Gajbhiye, RP Agrawal, P Phadnis, S Atal, V Tiwari. Exercise induced anaphylaxis and anti leukotriene montelukast. Journal of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapeutics. To be published in July 2015
Dr. Shubham Atal: Special appreciation award on 15th Aug 2014 for raising drug awareness among youth by Narcotics Control Bureau, Govt. of India, Indore division.
Dr. Shubham Atal: Facilitator in workshop on Research Methodologies, MEU, MGMMC, Indore, February 2014
A well planned and informative drug museum equipped with attractive wooden furniture, indigenous & synthetic drugs, pictorial charts showing history of pharmacology with photographs of pioneer pharmacologists, classification, structure, mode of action, specimen of various drugs in different dosage forms. Every week, students are acquainted with current therapeutics in the museum.
A well equipped chemical laboratory containing all the equipment required for fundamental and applied research technique like paper chromatography, electrophoresis, spectrophotometry, tissue respiration with Warburg apparatus, refrigerated ultra centrifuge for separation of mitochondria, biogenesis of plant alkaloids & many others.
Post graduate experimental laboratory in which animal experiments are carried out for evaluating the pharmacological profile of indigenous drugs for studying drug interaction of synthetic drugs & for demonstration of drug effects to undergraduates.
An animal house (central) for keeping and breeding of experimental animals like guinea pig, mice, rats, rabbits & pigeons.
Recently a new research laboratory has been developed & equipped with latest equipments to carry out research work. About 150 research papers have been published in the National, International Journals so far from this department. Presently, a research project on pharmacological investigation of Trigonella foenum graeicum seed extract has been submitted to ICMR and immunomodulatory activity of Jome medical plant to UCG, New Delhi for financial assistance. Now-a-days, more attention is paid on the teaching pattern in order to make students acquainted with latest therapeutic approach and latest clinical pharmacology. All efforts are being done by all faculty members of the department to make subjects more interesting & fruitful to the students.
Hello, everyone! I am SUPER excited to welcome you to the April 2016 MHKDesigns release! We have had some really fun sets for you to check out over the next few days, as well as chances to win either one of the sets OR all of them--have you join in the fun?! I'll give you all until Friday to join us, and then Saturday will bring the winners post! :)
Thanks for stopping by today, friends! Today is our last day, but our DT will be back soon with more gorgeous inspiration to share using products from the MHKDesigns Etsy shop! Don't forget to get all your commenting in for your chance to WIN, and please do join our monthly challenge, as well! Until later, HUGS and happy stamping! :)
Hi Mynn, love this weeks new releases the poppies are perfect for this ANZAC day and remembering our fallen diggers ... thank you for the inspiration. ... Megan
This is a beautiful set! Love that it can be used for many occasions with the variety of sentiments. And the poppy is a beautiful flower to color.
