Depression Home > Isocarboxazid (Marplan)
If other antidepressants have failed to treat your depression, your healthcare provider may recommend treatment with a drug called isocarboxazid (Marplan®). This prescription product is typically used as a last resort, due to its many potentially lethal food and drug interactions.
The medication comes in the form of a 10-mg tablet and is typically taken two to four times daily. Some of the most common side effects include:
To help ensure your safety with isocarboxazid, make sure your healthcare provider has up-to-date information on any other medications you are taking, including nonprescription drugs, as well as any allergies you may have, including to any drugs, foods, dyes, or preservatives. Also, let your healthcare provider know if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
(To read more about this topic, click Isocarboxazid. This article offers an in-depth overview of dosing guidelines, other side effects, other safety warnings, and more.)
The Network is interested in any areas of research relating to the interpretation of public relations (PR) from a social perspective. We are open to diverse and challenging notions of society, although aspects of PR the Network has a particular interest and expertise in include the following:
The Network welcomes all opportunities for supporting, advising or collaborating on research or practical projects spanning the above. Please contact us for more information or to find out how we can help.
New Attitude Salon & Spa has been in business since 1992. We offer an array of services; hair, color, perms, nails, massage therapy, waxing, ear candling, and tanning.
The staff of New Attitude Salon & Spa would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our loyal clients that have stayed with us through the years and would also like to welcome all newcomers!
DOVER -- Since Al Whitney of Avon Lake first became a blood donor more than a half century ago, he's rolled up his sleeve to make the 'gift of life' hundreds of times.
His visit and platelet donation at the Blood Donor Room at Union Hospital was made to raise public awareness of this important program.
Whitney's remarkable journey as an advocate for donation of blood and platelets has led him to donate in 46 states with a goal to donate platelets in all 50 states.
Whitney, age 74, first donated blood in 1965 in response to a blood drive in downtown Cleveland. He hasn't stopped since.
In the early 1970s, Whitney began donating platelets, the clotting agent in blood that helps control bleeding. Platelets are crucial to many cancer treatments, trauma patients, and transplant recipients. In 2007, Whitney again felt compelled to "do more." He founded the non-profit organization, Platelets Across America, to raise awareness of the need for whole blood and platelets. He also set a personal goal to donate platelets in all 50 states.
"People ask me why I do it," said Whitney. "My answer is, walk into a cancer ward and then ask me why I do it."
Whitney's trip to West Virginia earlier in the week was his 47th state visited for platelet donation.
His travels, funded solely by his social security income, are all business and rarely involve any sightseeing.
"Getting the word out and organizing blood drives keeps me very busy on these trips," he said. "I really don't have time to be a tourist."
"I was in the Mr. Rushmore gift shop, wearing my Platelets Across America logo jacket. A woman in the gift shop suddenly came over and gave me a big hug. She said, "It's because of you that I'm alive today!'"
In addition to his many hundreds of blood and platelet donations, Whitney has recruited thousands of others to become blood donors.
"The majority of people agree to become a donor as a result of a personal request," he said. "I encourage folks to take a half hour and save someone's life. Let a dad walk his daughter down the aisle. Let a baby have a birthday.
One blood donation has the potential to save three lives and goes on to positively impact the lives of countless loved ones and friends."
Like blood donors, platelet donors must be at least 17 years of age, in good health, and weigh at least 110 pounds.
Platelet donors must not have taken aspirin, anti-inflammatory medication or products containing aspirin less than 48 hours prior to the donation. Platelets can be donated every 14 days while whole blood donors must wait at least 56 days.
The Blood Donor Room at Union Hospital is open Tuesday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Fridays to 4:30 p.m.
medicines adherence Archives - Page 2 of 2 - AJP
TWC to boldly go into the future
TerryWhite Chemmart has flagged a "bold" new plan which will see more personalised store formats and a medicines adherence focus At its 2018 Supplier Forum in Melbourne, its leadership team …
Even patients who consider themselves proficient at managing their medicines engage in unsafe practices, new findings reveal A consumer perception survey of Australian Patients Association members found that half admitted …
Debbie Rigby rounds up the latest in research news relevant to pharmacy Improving medication adherence in patients with cardiovascular disease An updated Cochrane review on interventions to improve adherence to …
App helps compliance, but not blood pressure
More consumers are turning to health care apps to try and manage conditions like hypertension – but how effective are they? A new study published in JAMA Internal Medicine looked …
We've got an adherence problem. What are we doing about it?
Medicines adherence needs a multi-pronged approach, writes Tal Rapke According to a 2003 report by the World Health Organization into medication adherence, approximately 50 per cent of patients with chronic …
Three ways to solve the biggest fixable problem in health care
Vanessa Lontos 10/05/2017
One of Australia's biggest problems is a huge opportunity for pharmacy to help, writes Vanessa Lontos Medicines are the most common treatment used in health care and contribute to significant …
iSIGHT - Reviews & Offers at RightClinic.com
Southport Change branch
iSight Liverpool iSIGHT Southport iSight Windermere
iSIGHT is a group of 3 specialist private eye clinics offering a comprehensive range of both refractive and general eye procedures. We offer treatment for a whole range of eye conditions including both Glaucoma and Cataracts and our surgeons are amongst the best in the UK.
Our clinics can be found in 3 convenient locations in the North West of England and they are Liverpool, Windermere and Southport. At iSIGHT we specialise in all types of refractive surgery including both laser and non-laser procedures. All our surgeons are able to perform Lasik, Lasek and Wavefront surgery as well as alternative non-laser treatments such as refractive surgery and Implantable contact lenses. We also perform the very latest bladeless Lasik which is safer than standard Lasik and has a quicker recovery period.
iSIGHT clinics are dedicated to offering you a level of patient care above and beyond what you will find on the high street and we always aim to exceed your expectations. Over the past few years we have built up a reputation as a clinic that delivers the very highest standards in patient care. All of our surgeons are extremely approachable and will take time to explain all aspects of your potential surgery. The support staff at iSIGHT are also committed to providing all patients with the highest possible standards of clinical care and expertise.
For a free no obligation consultation with the surgeon, please contact us and we will be happy to help. We don't believe in any sales techniques so you can expect a relaxed, pressure free environment.
Overall my experience at iSight was good although it was slightly more expensive than I was expecting to pay.
The results of the surgery are perfect as far as I can tell and the recovery period has been practically painless. Overall I am a satisfied customer
International Conference on Religious Tourism and Development ICRTD in February 2021 in Jeddah
Religious Tourism and Development
ICRTD 2021: 15. International Conference on Religious Tourism and Development
Conference Code: 21SA02ICRTD
ICRTD 2021: 15. International Conference on Religious Tourism and Development aims to bring together leading academic scientists, researchers and research scholars to exchange and share their experiences and research results on all aspects of Religious Tourism and Development. It also provides a premier interdisciplinary platform for researchers, practitioners and educators to present and discuss the most recent innovations, trends, and concerns as well as practical challenges encountered and solutions adopted in the fields of Religious Tourism and Development
Prospective authors are kindly encouraged to contribute to and help shape the conference through submissions of their research abstracts, papers and e-posters. Also, high quality research contributions describing original and unpublished results of conceptual, constructive, empirical, experimental, or theoretical work in all areas of Religious Tourism and Development are cordially invited for presentation at the conference. The conference solicits contributions of abstracts, papers and e-posters that address themes and topics of the conference, including figures, tables and references of novel research materials.
ICRTD 2021 has teamed up with the Special Journal Issue on Religious Tourism and Development. A number of selected high-impact full text papers will also be considered for the special journal issues. All submitted papers will have the opportunity to be considered for this Special Journal Issue. The paper selection will be carried out during the peer review process as well as at the conference presentation stage. Submitted papers must not be under consideration by any other journal or publication. The final decision for paper selection will be made based on peer review reports by the Guest Editors and the Editor-in-Chief jointly. Selected full-text papers will be published online free of charge.
PEG-Intron (Peginterferon Alfa-2B) - Warnings and Precautions
Alpha interferons, including PEG-Intron, may cause or aggravate fatal or life-threatening neuropsychiatric, autoimmune, ischemic, and infectious disorders. Patients should be monitored closely with periodic clinical and laboratory evaluations. Patients with persistently severe or worsening signs or symptoms of these conditions should be withdrawn from therapy. In many but not all cases these disorders resolve after stopping PEG-Intron therapy. See WARNINGS, ADVERSE REACTIONS.
Use with Ribavirin. Ribavirin may cause birth defects and/or death of the unborn child. Extreme care must be taken to avoid pregnancy in female patients and in female partners of male patients. Ribavirin causes hemolytic anemia. The anemia associated with REBETOL therapy may result in a worsening of cardiac disease. Ribavirin is genotoxic and mutagenic and should be considered a potential carcinogen. (See REBETOL package insert for additional information and other warnings).
Life-threatening or fatal neuropsychiatric events, including suicide, suicidal and homicidal ideation, depression, relapse of drug addiction/overdose, and aggressive behavior have occurred in patients with and without a previous psychiatric disorder during PEG-Intron treatment and follow-up. Psychoses, hallucinations, bipolar disorders, and mania have been observed in patients treated with alpha interferons. PEG-Intron should be used with extreme caution in patients with a history of psychiatric disorders. Patients should be advised to report immediately any symptoms of depression and/or suicidal ideation to their prescribing physicians. Physicians should monitor all patients for evidence of depression and other psychiatric symptoms. In severe cases, PEG-Intron should be stopped immediately and psychiatric intervention instituted. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dose Reduction.)
PEG-Intron suppresses bone marrow function, sometimes resulting in severe cytopenias. PEG-Intron should be discontinued in patients who develop severe decreases in neutrophil or platelet counts. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dose Reduction). Ribavirin may potentiate the neutropenia induced by interferon alpha. Very rarely alpha interferons may be associated with aplastic anemia.
PEG-Intron causes or aggravates hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. Hyperglycemia has been observed in patients treated with PEG-Intron. Diabetes mellitus has been observed in patients treated with alpha interferons. Patients with these conditions who cannot be effectively treated by medication should not begin PEG-Intron therapy. Patients who develop these conditions during treatment and cannot be controlled with medication should not continue PEG-Intron therapy.
Cardiovascular events, which include hypotension, arrhythmia, tachycardia, cardiomyopathy, angina pectoris, and myocardial infarction, have been observed in patients treated with PEG-Intron. PEG-Intron should be used cautiously in patients with cardiovascular disease. Patients with a history of myocardial infarction and arrhythmic disorder who require PEG-Intron therapy should be closely monitored (see Laboratory Tests). Patients with a history of significant or unstable cardiac disease should not be treated with PEG-Intron/REBETOL combination therapy. [See REBETOL package insert.]
Dyspnea, pulmonary infiltrates, pneumonia, bronchiolitis obliterans, interstitial pneumonitis and sarcoidosis some resulting in respiratory failure and/or patient deaths, may be induced or aggravated by PEG-Intron or alpha interferon therapy. Recurrence of respiratory failure has been observed with interferon rechallenge. PEG-Intron combination treatment should be suspended in patients who develop pulmonary infiltrates or pulmonary function impairment. Patients who resume interferon treatment should be closely monitored.
Fatal and nonfatal ulcerative or hemorrhagic/ischemic colitis have been observed within 12 weeks of the start of alpha interferon treatment. Abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and fever are the typical manifestations. PEG-Intron treatment should be discontinued immediately in patients who develop these symptoms and signs. The colitis usually resolves within 1-3 weeks of discontinuation of alpha interferons.
Fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis have been observed in patients treated with alpha interferon. PEG-Intron therapy should be suspended in patients with signs and symptoms suggestive of pancreatitis and discontinued in patients diagnosed with pancreatitis.
Development or exacerbation of autoimmune disorders (e.g. thyroiditis, thrombocytopenia, rheumatoid arthritis, interstitial nephritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, psoriasis) have been observed in patients receiving PEG-Intron. PEG-Intron should be used with caution in patients with autoimmune disorders.
Decrease or loss of vision, retinopathy including macular edema, retinal artery or vein thrombosis, retinal hemorrhages and cotton wool spots, optic neuritis, and papilledema may be induced or aggravated by treatment with peginterferon alfa-2b or other alpha interferons. All patients should receive an eye examination at baseline. Patients with preexisting ophthalmologic disorders (e.g. diabetic or hypertensive retinopathy) should receive periodic ophthalmologic exams during interferon alpha treatment. Any patient who develops ocular symptoms should receive a prompt and complete eye examination. Peginterferon alfa-2b treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new or worsening ophthalmologic disorders.
Serious, acute hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, bronchoconstriction, anaphylaxis) have been rarely observed during alpha interferon therapy. If such a reaction develops during treatment with PEG-Intron, discontinue treatment and institute appropriate medical therapy immediately. Transient rashes do not necessitate interruption of treatment.
Use with Ribavirin-(See also REBETOL Package Insert)
REBETOL may cause birth defects and/or death of the unborn child. REBETOL therapy should not be started until a report of a negative pregnancy test has been obtained immediately prior to planned initiation of therapy. Patients should use at least two forms of contraception and have monthly pregnancy tests (See BOX WARNING, CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients and REBETOL package insert).
Ribavirin caused hemolytic anemia in 10% of PEG-Intron/REBETOL treated patients within 1-4 weeks of initiation of therapy. Complete blood counts should be obtained pretreatment and at week 2 and week 4 of therapy or more frequently if clinically indicated. Anemia associated with REBETOL therapy may result in a worsening of cardiac disease. Decrease in dosage or discontinuation of REBETOL may be necessary. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dose Reduction.)
PEG-Intron alone or in combination with REBETOL has not been studied in patients who have failed other alpha interferon treatments.
The safety and efficacy of PEG-Intron alone or in combination with REBETOL for the treatment of hepatitis C in liver or other organ transplant recipients have not been studied. Preliminary data indicates that interferon alpha therapy may be associated with an increased rate of kidney graft rejection. Liver graft rejection has also been reported but a causal association to interferon alpha therapy has not been established.
The safety and efficacy of PEG-Intron/REBETOL for the treatment of patients with HCV co-infected with HIV or HBV have not been established.
Triglycerides: Elevated triglyceride levels have been observed in patients treated with interferons including PEG-Intron therapy. Elevated triglyceride levels should be managed as clinically appropriate. Hypertriglyceridemia may result in pancreatitis. Discontinuation of PEG-Intron therapy should be considered for patients with persistently elevated triglycerides (eg, triglycerides >1000 mg/dL) associated with symptoms of potential pancreatitis, such as abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting.
Patients with renal failure: Increases in serum creatinine levels have been observed in patients with renal insufficiency treated with interferons, including PEG-Intron. Patients with impairment of renal function should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of interferon toxicity, including increases in serum creatinine, and doses of PEG-Intron should be adjusted accordingly. PEG-Intron should be used with caution in patients with creatinine clearance <50 mL/min; in considering these patients for PEG-Intron therapy, the potential risks must be evaluated against the potential benefits of treatment. REBETOL must not be used in patients with creatinine clearance <50 mL/min. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dose Reduction).
Information for Patients: Patients receiving PEG-Intron alone or in combination with REBETOL should be directed in its appropriate use, informed of the benefits and risks associated with treatment, and referred to the MEDICATION GUIDES for PEG-Intron and, if applicable, REBETOL (ribavirin, USP).
Patients must be informed that REBETOL may cause birth defects and/or death of the unborn child. Extreme care must be taken to avoid pregnancy in female patients and in female partners of male patients during treatment with combination PEG-Intron/REBETOL therapy and for 6 months post-therapy. Combination PEG-Intron/REBETOL therapy should not be initiated until a report of a negative pregnancy test has been obtained immediately prior to initiation of therapy. It is recommended that patients undergo monthly pregnancy tests during therapy and for 6 months post-therapy. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and REBETOL package insert).
Patients should be informed that there are no data regarding whether PEG-Intron therapy will prevent transmission of HCV infection to others. Also, it is not known if treatment with PEG-Intron will cure hepatitis C or prevent cirrhosis, liver failure, or liver cancer that may be the result of infection with the hepatitis C virus.
Patients should be advised that laboratory evaluations are required before starting therapy and periodically thereafter (see Laboratory Tests). It is advised that patients be well hydrated, especially during the initial stages of treatment. "Flu-like" symptoms associated with administration of PEG-Intron may be minimized by bedtime administration of PEG-Intron or by use of antipyretics.
Patients should be advised to use a puncture-resistant container for the disposal of used syringes, needles, and the Redipen™. The full container should be disposed of in accordance with state and local laws. Patients should be thoroughly instructed in the importance of proper disposal. Patients should also be cautioned against reusing or sharing needles, syringes, or the Redipen™.
Laboratory Tests: PEG-Intron alone or in combination with ribavirin may cause severe decreases in neutrophil and platelet counts, and hematologic, endocrine (e.g. TSH) and hepatic abnormalities. Transient elevations in ALT (2-5 fold above baseline) were observed in 10% of patients treated with PEG-Intron, and was not associated with deterioration of other liver functions.
Patients on PEG-Intron or PEG-Intron/REBETOL combination therapy should have hematology and blood chemistry testing before the start of treatment and then periodically thereafter. In the clinical trial CBC (including hemoglobin, neutrophil and platelet counts) and chemistries (including AST, ALT, bilirubin, and uric acid) were measured during the treatment period at weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, and then at 6-week intervals or more frequently if abnormalities developed. TSH levels were measured every 12 weeks during the treatment period.
HCV RNA should be measured at 6 months of treatment. PEG-Intron or PEG-Intron/REBETOL combination therapy should be discontinued in patients with persistent high viral levels.
Patients who have pre-existing cardiac abnormalities should have electrocardiograms administered before treatment with PEG-Intron/REBETOL.
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis: PEG-Intron has not been tested for its carcinogenic potential. Neither PEG-Intron, nor its components interferon or methoxypolyethylene glycol caused damage to DNA when tested in the standard battery of mutagenesis assays, in the presence and absence of metabolic activation.
Use with Ribavirin: Ribavirin is genotoxic and mutagenic and should be considered a potential carcinogen. See REBETOL package insert for additional warnings relevant to PEG-Intron therapy in combination with ribavirin.
Impairment of Fertility: PEG-Intron may impair human fertility. Irregular menstrual cycles were observed in female cynomolgus monkeys given subcutaneous injections of 4239 µg/m2 PEG-Intron alone every other day for one month, (approximately 345 times the recommended weekly human dose based upon body surface area). These effects included transiently decreased serum levels of estradiol and progesterone, suggestive of anovulation. Normal menstrual cycles and serum hormone levels resumed in these animals 2 to 3 months following cessation of PEG-Intron treatment. Every other day dosing with 262 µg/m2(approximately 21 times the weekly human dose) had no effects on cycle duration or reproductive hormone status. The effects of PEG-Intron on male fertility have not been studied.
Pregnancy Category C: PEG-Intron monotherapy: Non-pegylated Interferon alfa-2b, has been shown to have abortifacient effects in Macaca mulatta (rhesus monkeys) at 15 and 30 million IU/kg (estimated human equivalent of 5 and 10 million IU/kg, based on body surface area adjustment for a 60 kg adult). PEG-Intron should be assumed to also have abortifacient potential. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. PEG-Intron therapy is to be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Therefore, PEG-Intron is recommended for use in fertile women only when they are using effective contraception during the treatment period.
Nursing Mothers: It is not known whether the components of PEG-Intron are excreted in human milk. Because of the potential for adverse reactions from the drug in nursing infants, a decision must be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the treatment, taking into account the importance of the product to the mother.
Significant teratogenic and/or embryocidal effects have been demonstrated in all animal species exposed to ribavirin. REBETOL therapy is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in the male partners of women who are pregnant. See CONTRAINDICATIONS and the REBETOL Package Insert.
If pregnancy occurs in a patient or partner of a patient during treatment with PEG-Intron and REBETOL during the 6 months after treatment cessation, physicians should report such cases by calling (800) 727-7064.
Pediatric. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 18 years have not been established.
Geriatric. In general, younger patients tend to respond better than older patients to interferon-based therapies. Clinical studies of PEG-Intron alone or in combination with REBETOL did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over, however, to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects. Treatment with alpha interferons, including PEG-Intron, is associated with neuropsychiatric, cardiac, pulmonary, GI and systemic (flu-like) adverse effects. Because these adverse reactions may be more severe in the elderly, caution should be exercised in use of PEG-Intron in this population. This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. REBETOL should not be used in patients with creatinine clearance <50 mL/min. When using PEG-Intron/REBETOL therapy, refer also to the REBETOL Medication Guide.
hits 1 - 22 | 22 hits
Journal article published (5,948)
New Insights into Mouse Brain Maturation as Assessed by 1H MRS at 7 Tesla
Schmitt,B. ; Amara,C. ; von Both,I. ; [et al.] Bachert,P. ; Schulze,A.
Keywords: development ; LEVEL ; METABOLITE ; pathology ; CHILDREN ; INSIGHTS ; MAGNETIC-RESONANCE ; MOUSE ; MOUSE-BRAIN ; MATURATION ; PHENOTYPE ; animals ; DISEASE ; DISEASES ; MICE ; MR ; CANCER ; brain ; MODEL ; MODELS ; INSIGHT ; DIFFERENTIATE ; cancer research
Abstract: In order to differentiate between normal and disease-related effects in studies of animal models of pathologies it is important to have background information about the phenotype of healthy animals. An animal MRS study was performed to obtain further knowledge about the biochemical maturation of the brain of C57Bl/6 mice during postnatal development. The results indicate that functional development continues after postnatal day 21 as changes in brain metabolite levels can be observed beyond this point. This work provides new findings on physiological mouse brain maturation, which can be particularly important for the investigation of metabolic diseases in young mice.
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowProceeding.aspx%3fpublishedId=10511
An Optically Detunable Coil for Improved Self Gating in Small Animals
Korn,M. ; Umathum,R. ; Schulz,J. ; [et al.] Krafft,A. ; Semmler,W. ; Bock,M.
Keywords: MOTION ; MAGNETIC-RESONANCE ; SIGNAL ; MRI ; MICE ; animals ; CANCER ; cancer research
Abstract: Physiological motion correction using MR-signals (self gating) has become a widely used method. However in small animal MRI the acquisition of motion dependent signals can be challenging. In this work a hardware-device, consisting of an inductively coupled coil that can be dynamically detuned by an optical trigger signal, is presented. Only during acquisition of the gating signal the coil is tuned and therefore enhances the gating signal while the over all image remains homogeneous. Experiments on mice are shown where the self gating signal was amplified by a factor of 1.7 to 2.8.
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowProceeding.aspx%3fpublishedId=10502
In vivo Fourier Shifted Two-Dimensional Zero-Quantum Coherence 1H NMR Spectroscopy of Glutamate and Glutamine
Snyder,S. ; Schmitter,S. ; Nagel,A. ; [et al.] Bachert,P.
Keywords: SPECTROSCOPY ; MAGNETIC-RESONANCE ; FREQUENCIES ; PARAMETERS ; IDENTIFICATION ; NMR ; NMR-SPECTROSCOPY ; MODULATION ; WHOLE-BODY ; SPECTRA ; CANCER ; IN-VIVO ; VIVO ; MR ; RESOLUTION ; TIME ; cancer research ; glutamine ; WELL ; TIMES ; 3
Abstract: Previously, it has been shown that glutamate can be distinguished from glutamine when their zero-quantum coherence (ZQC) modulation frequencies as well as their chemical shift values are used as identification parameters in 2D spectra. However, acquisition times for such spectra exceeded four hours. We now show that by recording 2D spectra, which are undersampled along the ZCQ modulation frequency axis and then applying a Fourier Shift, glutamate can be distinguished from glutamine in 50 minutes. We demonstrate this on a healthy volunteer using a 3 Tesla whole-body MR tomograph and show that there is no loss in resolution.
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowProceeding.aspx%3fpublishedId=10513
New zealand under 19 cricket team – VietNam Breaking News
You are here: Home / Archives for New zealand under 19 cricket team
New zealand under 19 cricket team
Filed Under: Uncategorized COVID-19, National Steering Committee on COVID-19 Prevention and Control, imported cases, community transmission, Patient 19, quarantine, vietnamplus, Vietnam News Agency, Health, comic 19 days, vietnam how many days, october community day pokemon go, tsapi entered 30 day grace period, sit-in enters 4th day, enter the underworld sbc fifa 19, transmission atv last day on earth, june pokemon go community day, vietnam cambodia 14 days, vietnam cambodia 15 days, vietnam cambodia 8 days, community day beldum, 11 day power play community shift, vietnam-laos-cambodia community centre, 41st day, 41st day of summer, 41st day of demise, pelatih vietnam u 19, 19 days mangago, enter the underworld fut 19, vietnam 7 day holiday, vietnam for 4 days, vietnam u19 vs laos u 19, battlefront 2 community transmission, vietnam under 19 league, vietnam vs singapura aff u 19 2018
Filed Under: Uncategorized pilot, HCM City Hospital for Tropical Diseases, COVID-19 patient, Vietnam News, Politics, Business, Economy, Society, Life, Sports, Environment, Your Say, English Through the News, Magazine, vietnam war, current news, Vietnamese to english, tin viet nam, l, patient reviews of doctors, patient ratings of doctors, doctor reviews by patients, urgent care doctor, patient protection and affordable care act, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, primary care doctor, round the clock, aids patient care and stds, savings clock, conversation between doctor and patient, patient centered care, qvar monthly patient savings card, qvar patient savings program, coordination of care through patient engagement, patients care technician salary, doctors and patients, doctors save lives, primary care doctors, doctor patient relationship, care gifts for cancer patients, caring for a dementia patient at home, dialogue doctor and patient, doctor and patient, doctor patient confidentiality, Save the Clock Tower
304-293-8911Stephane.Collignon@mail.wvu.edu316Business and Economics Building
Stephane Collignon, Ph.D. is an associate professor of Management Information Systems at the West Virginia University College of Business Economics. Currently, he teaches graduate classes in Business Data Analytics.
Dr. Collignon's two main current research interests are transportation procurement issues on e-marketplaces and privacy related studies. Dr. Collignon uses quantitative and qualitative techniques in his studies. His research is partially inspired from his experience in the industry where Dr. Collignon worked for seven years in logistics as an analyst and a project manager in two different French distribution companies.
Dr. Collignon is a member of the Decision Science Institute. Dr. Collignon's research has been published in Journal of Business Logistics, European Journal of Operational Research, Information & Management, International Journal of Production Research, International Journal of Physical Distribution and Logistics Management, Information Technology Management, and Expert Systems with Applications.
Latest Research Scientists jobs - JobisJob United States
1 to 10 of 2,310 vacancies
CyberCoders - Rockville, MD, United States
Develop cyber security mechanisms and tools in some of the following example areas: malware detection, analysis, mitigation, prevention...
Facebook App - Redmond, Washington
At Facebook Reality Labs, our goal is to make world-class consumer virtual, augmented, and mixed reality experiences. Come work alongside... Research Scientists Work careers...
Similar: chief information officer cio new jersey, clinical research
. Position Description: We seek a highly motivated Research Scientist to support R&D engaged in basic research. The ideal candidate is a hands-on experimentalist who thrives in a collaborative Research Scientists careers...
See more: Science - Research Jobs in Rancho Santa Margarita, CA
Exscientia - Miami, FL, United States
. Following multiple partnerships with many leading pharmaceutical companies and research institutes, we are now seeking a highly motivated AI Research Scientist to join our Miami office. Role In this role research scientist...
Similar: research associate, contract clinical research associate
an experienced research scientist to help us build a practical neural human-machine interface based on high resolution non-invasive measurement of motor neuron signals. Our research lies at the intersection research scientists engineers...
Meta - Menlo Park, California
Meta is seeking Research Scientists to join fundamental and applied research teams, which are focused on making significant progress in AI. Advances in AI are key to our mission, spanning some development research scientists engineers...
Similar: research engineer, clinical research professional
Parenthetic - Washington, DC, United States
ranging from disinformation and violent extremism to marketing and business strategy. Parenthetic is seeking an experienced Research Scientist to help put theory into practice by applying models workforce development research scientists engineers...
Similar: pharmaceutical research, research technician
for you. Overview: The James lab at Seattle Children's Research Institute are hiring motivated scientists to join a rapidly expanding research program focused on B cell engineering. Ultimately, the goal of the B cell faculty clinical faculty research scientists...
Similar: research specialist, animal research
Meta - Sunnyvale, California (+1 location)
Meta AR/VR focuses on delivering Meta's vision through Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR). The compute performance and... varying levels research scientists...
Similar: policy research, research leader
Neural Magic - Somerville, MA, United States
company headquartered in Davis Square, Somerville, MA. Our investors include Amdocs, Andreessen Horowitz, Comcast Ventures, NEA, and Pillar VC. We are seeking a machine learning research scientist research scientists laboratory quality control...
Exact Sciences Corporation - San Diego, California (+2 locations)
Summary of Major Responsibilities: The Research Scientist I, with limited guidance from more experienced scientists, works individually and in collaboration with others on multiple projects which levels research scientists laboratory...
