Neural mechanisms of emotion regulation and their role in endocrine and immune functioning: A review with implications for treatment of affective d... - PubMed - NCBI
1 selected item: 30385251
Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2018 Dec;95:508-514. doi: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2018.10.019. Epub 2018 Oct 29.
Neural mechanisms of emotion regulation and their role in endocrine and immune functioning: A review with implications for treatment of affective disorders.
Lopez RB1, Denny BT2, Fagundes CP3.
Department of Psychological Sciences, Rice University, Houston, TX, United States. Electronic address: richard.lopez@rice.edu.
Department of Psychological Sciences, Rice University, Houston, TX, United States.
Department of Psychological Sciences, Rice University, Houston, TX, United States; Department of Behavioral Science, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, United States; Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States.
In the past century, medical progress has helped increase life expectancy and improve health outcomes more generally. Despite this progress, psychiatric disorders-especially affective disorders including depressive and anxiety disorders-are quite common and have been linked to dysfunction in endocrine and immune systems. In this review, we discuss neurobiological correlates of emotion regulation strategies and their effects on mental and physical health. Some of these correlates, namely sub-regions of prefrontal cortex, also play a key regulatory role in autonomic, endocrine, and immunological processes. Given this functional overlap, we propose a novel neuro-immuno-affective framework that targets improving emotion regulation, in order to: (1) reduce negative affect associated with depressive and/or anxiety disorders; and (2) alter endocrine and immune system functioning (e.g., reduce inflammation)-via changes in activity within (and connectivity between) brain systems that support (successful) emotion regulation. We conclude by arguing that such a framework can be adapted for psychiatric treatment protocols that holistically incorporate neural and immunological biomarkers to promote mental and physical health.
The Concept of Care in Oncology Nursing: A Literature Review
Background: The systematic and organized study of the meaning of care appeared in the last 50 years in nursing literature. The oncology nursing is nursing specialty which very early responded to the challenge in defining such a complicated and significant concept. Aim: The purpose of this review was to investigate the way in which the concept of "care" is perceived and described by nurses and patients in the oncology nursing domain. Method: A comprehensive literature review was contacted in the databases Medline, ScienceDirect, Cinahl, HEAL-Link from years 1994 till year 2009, using the following terms in English: "nursing", "care", "caring", "cancer patients", "caring behaviors", "oncology". Specifically, 28 studies were selected and analyzed, which explored patients and nurses perceptions of care in oncology. Results: Data analysis showed that nurses perceived care according to their personality and their values, while they were influenced by their beliefs about cancer. Nurses specialists' interventions improve the quality of care planning. In specialized cancer centers, or hospices a therapeutic interpersonal relationship between patients and nurses is established that alleviates patients' suffering. Nurses' presence beside the patient is among the top five most popular caring behaviours for nurses. Conclusions: Patients' perceptions remain stable through the years. Caring behaviours related to nurses' professional skills and knowledge in implementing various nursing procedures are considered as the most important by the patients. Moreover sensitivity, empathy, good communication skills and appropriate training that promotes an environment of trust and security are also considered as very important. Finally, the importance of culturally sensitive care with respect to their religious beliefs is emphasized. The difference in patients and nurses perceptions in caring behaviors in oncology seems to converge in specialized cancer settings.
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use NEBIVOLOL TABLETS safely and effectively. See full prescribing information for NEBIVOLOL TABLETS. NEBIVOLOL tablets, for oral use Initial U.S. Approval: 2007
NEBIVOLOL - nebivolol tablet
Ascend Laboratories, LLC
----------
HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use NEBIVOLOL TABLETS safely and effectively. See full prescribing information for NEBIVOLOL TABLETS.
NEBIVOLOL tablets, for oral use
Initial U.S. Approval: 2007
INDICATIONS AND USAGE
Nebivolol is a beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure.
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. (1.1)
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
Can be taken with and without food. Individualize to the needs of the patient and monitor during up-titration. (2)
Hypertension: Most patients start at 5 mg once daily. Dose can be increased at 2-week intervals up to 40 mg. (2.1)
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
Tablets: 2.5, 5, 10, 20 mg (3)
CONTRAINDICATIONS
Severe bradycardia (4)
Heart block greater than first degree (4)
Patients with cardiogenic shock (4)
Decompensated cardiac failure (4)
Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) (4)
Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh greater than B) (4)
Hypersensitive to any component of this product (4)
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy: Do not abruptly discontinue. (5.1)
Diabetes: Monitor glucose as β-blockers may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia. (5.5)
ADVERSE REACTIONS
Most common adverse reactions (6.1):
Headache, fatigue
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, Contact Ascend Laboratories, LLC at 1-877-ASC-RX01 (877-272-7901) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.
DRUG INTERACTIONS
CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase nebivolol levels. (7.1)
Reserpine or clonidine may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. (7.2)
Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. (7.3)
Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may cause excessive reductions in heart rate, blood pressure, and cardiac contractility. (7.4)
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
Lactation: Breastfeeding is not recommended. (8.2)
See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION.
Revised: 4/2022
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION: CONTENTS*
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
1.1 Hypertension
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
2.1 Hypertension
2.2 Subpopulations
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
5.1 Abrupt Cessation of Therapy
5.2 Angina and Acute Myocardial Infarction
5.3 Bronchospastic Diseases
5.4 Anesthesia and Major Surgery
5.5 Diabetes and Hypoglycemia
5.6 Thyrotoxicosis
5.7 Peripheral Vascular Disease
5.8 Non-dihydropyridine Calcium Channel Blockers
5.9 Use with CYP2D6 Inhibitors
5.10 Impaired Renal Function
5.11 Impaired Hepatic Function
5.12 Risk of Anaphylactic Reactions
5.13 Pheochromocytoma
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
6.1 Clinical Studies Experience
6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities
6.3 Post marketing Experience
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS
7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors
7.2 Hypotensive Agents
7.3 Digitalis Glycosides
7.4 Calcium Channel Blockers
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
8.1 Pregnancy
8.2 Lactation
8.4 Pediatric Use
8.5 Geriatric Use
8.6 Heart Failure
10 OVERDOSAGE
11 DESCRIPTION
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
12.1 Mechanism of Action
12.3 Pharmacokinetics
12.4 Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations
12.5 Drug-Drug Interactions
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
14 CLINICAL STUDIES
14.1 Hypertension
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
*
Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed.
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
1.1 Hypertension
Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Nebivolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Drug Interactions (7)].
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with nebivolol tablets.
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC).
Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly.
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal.
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy.
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
2.1 Hypertension
The dose of nebivolol must be individualized to the needs of the patient. For most patients, the recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily, with or without food, as monotherapy or in combination with other agents. For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure, the dose can be increased at 2-week intervals up to 40 mg. A more frequent dosing regimen is unlikely to be beneficial.
Renal Impairment
In patients with severe renal impairment (ClCr less than 30 mL/min) the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily; titrate up slowly if needed. Nebivolol has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)].
Hepatic Impairment
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily; titrate up slowly if needed. Nebivolol has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore it is not recommended in that population [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)].
2.2 Subpopulations
Geriatric Patients
It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly [see use in Specific Populations (8.5)].
CYP2D6 Polymorphism
No dose adjustments are necessary for patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. The clinical effect and safety profile observed in poor metabolizers were similar to those of extensive metabolizers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
Nebivolol is available as tablets for oral administration containing nebivolol hydrochloride equivalent to 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg of nebivolol.
Nebivolol tablets are uncoated round-shaped, beveled edge, biconvex, unscored, mottled, differentiated by color and are debossed with “NL” on one side and the number of mg (2.5, 5, 10, or 20) on the other side.
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
Nebivolol is contraindicated in the following conditions:
Severe bradycardia
Heart block greater than first degree
Patients with cardiogenic shock
Decompensated cardiac failure
Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place)
Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh greater than B)
Patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product.
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
5.1 Abrupt Cessation of Therapy
Do not abruptly discontinue nebivolol therapy in patients with coronary artery disease. Severe exacerbation of angina, myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients with coronary artery disease following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with β-blockers. Myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris. Caution patients without overt coronary artery disease against interruption or abrupt discontinuation of therapy. As with other β-blockers, when discontinuation of nebivolol is planned, carefully observe and advise patients to minimize physical activity. Taper nebivolol over 1 to 2 weeks when possible. If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, re-start nebivolol promptly, at least temporarily.
5.2 Angina and Acute Myocardial Infarction
Nebivolol was not studied in patients with angina pectoris or who had a recent MI.
5.3 Bronchospastic Diseases
In general, patients with bronchospastic diseases should not receive β-blockers.
5.4 Anesthesia and Major Surgery
Because beta-blocker withdrawal has been associated with an increased risk of MI and chest pain, patients already on beta-blockers should generally continue treatment throughout the perioperative period. If nebivolol is to be continued perioperatively, monitor patients closely when anesthetic agents which depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used. If β-blocking therapy is withdrawn prior to major surgery, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures.
The β-blocking effects of nebivolol can be reversed by β-agonists, e.g., dobutamine or isoproterenol. However, such patients may be subject to protracted severe hypotension. Additionally, difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has been reported with β-blockers.
5.5 Diabetes and Hypoglycemia
β-blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia. Nonselective β- blockers may potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels. It is not known whether nebivolol has these effects. Advise patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia and diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents about these possibilities.
5.6 Thyrotoxicosis
β-blockers may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia. Abrupt withdrawal of β-blockers may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate a thyroid storm.
5.7 Peripheral Vascular Disease
β-blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease.
5.8 Non-dihydropyridine Calcium Channel Blockers
Because of significant negative inotropic and chronotropic effects in patients treated with β-blockers and calcium channel blockers of the verapamil and diltiazem type, monitor the ECG and blood pressure in patients treated concomitantly with these agents.
5.9 Use with CYP2D6 Inhibitors
Nebivolol exposure increases with inhibition of CYP2D6 [see Drug Interactions (7)]. The dose of nebivolol may need to be reduced.
5.10 Impaired Renal Function
Renal clearance of nebivolol is decreased in patients with severe renal impairment. Nebivolol has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Dosage and Administration (2.1)].
5.11 Impaired Hepatic Function
Metabolism of nebivolol is decreased in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. Nebivolol has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Dosage and Administration (2.1)].
5.12 Risk of Anaphylactic Reactions
While taking β-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic challenge. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reactions.
5.13 Pheochromocytoma
In patients with known or suspected pheochromocytoma, initiate an α-blocker prior to the use of any β-blocker.
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
6.1 Clinical Studies Experience
Nebivolol has been evaluated for safety in patients with hypertension and in patients with heart failure. The observed adverse reaction profile was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the health status of the patients in the clinical trials. Adverse reactions reported for each of these patient populations are provided below. Excluded are adverse reactions considered too general to be informative and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug because they were associated with the condition being treated or are very common in the treated population.
The data described below reflect worldwide clinical trial exposure to nebivolol in 6,545 patients, including 5,038 patients treated for hypertension and the remaining 1,507 subjects treated for other cardiovascular diseases. Doses ranged from 0.5 mg to 40 mg. Patients received nebivolol for up to 24 months, with over 1,900 patients treated for at least 6 months, and approximately 1,300 patients for more than one year.
HYPERTENSION: In placebo-controlled clinical trials comparing nebivolol with placebo, discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions was reported in 2.8% of patients treated with nebivolol and 2.2% of patients given placebo. The most common adverse reactions that led to discontinuation of nebivolol were headache (0.4%), nausea (0.2%) and bradycardia (0.2%).
Table 1 lists treatment-emergent adverse reactions that were reported in three 12-week, placebo-controlled monotherapy trials involving 1597 hypertensive patients treated with either 5 mg, 10 mg, or 20 to 40 mg of nebivolol and 205 patients given placebo and for which the rate of occurrence was at least 1% of patients treated with nebivolol and greater than the rate for those treated with placebo in at least one dose group.
Table 1. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions with an Incidence (over 6 weeks) ≥ 1% in Nebivolol-Treated Patients and at a Higher Frequency than Placebo-Treated Patients
System Organ Class –Preferred Term
Placebo
(n=205) (%)
Nebivolol
5 mg
(n = 459)
(%)
Nebivolol
10 mg
(n = 461)
(%)
Nebivolol
20 to 40 mg
(n=677)
(%)
Cardiac Disorders
Bradycardia
0
0
0
1
Gastrointestinal Disorders
Diarrhea
2
2
2
3
Nausea
0
1
3
2
General Disorders
Fatigue
1
2
2
5
Chest pain
0
0
1
1
Peripheral edema
0
1
1
1
Nervous System Disorders
Headache
6
9
6
7
Dizziness
2
2
3
4
Psychiatric Disorders
Insomnia
0
1
1
1
Respiratory Disorders
Dyspnea
0
0
1
1
Skin and subcutaneous Tissue Disorders
Rash
0
0
1
1
Listed below are other reported adverse reactions with an incidence of at least 1% in the more than 4,300 patients treated with nebivolol in controlled or open-label trials except for those already appearing in Table 1, terms too general to be informative, minor symptoms, or adverse reactions unlikely to be attributable to drug because they are common in the population. These adverse reactions were in most cases observed at a similar frequency in placebo-treated patients in the controlled studies.
Body as a Whole: asthenia.
Gastrointestinal System Disorders: abdominal pain
Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypercholesterolemia
Nervous System Disorders: paraesthesia
6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities
In controlled monotherapy trials of hypertensive patients, nebivolol was associated with an increase in BUN, uric acid, triglycerides and a decrease in HDL cholesterol and platelet count.
6.3 Post marketing Experience
The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous reports of nebivolol received worldwide and have not been listed elsewhere. These adverse reactions have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of seriousness, frequency of reporting or potential causal connection to nebivolol. Adverse reactions common in the population have generally been omitted. Because these adverse reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to nebivolol exposure: abnormal hepatic function (including increased AST, ALT and bilirubin), acute pulmonary edema, acute renal failure, atrioventricular block (both second and third degree), bronchospasm, erectile dysfunction, hypersensitivity (including urticaria, allergic vasculitis and rare reports of angioedema), hypotension, myocardial infarction, pruritus, psoriasis, Raynaud's phenomenon, peripheral ischemia/claudication, somnolence, syncope, thrombocytopenia, various rashes and skin disorders, vertigo, and vomiting.
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS
7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors
Use caution when nebivolol is co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)].
7.2 Hypotensive Agents
Do not use nebivolol with other β-blockers. Closely monitor patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine or guanethidine, because the added β-blocking action of nebivolol may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. In patients who are receiving nebivolol and clonidine, discontinue nebivolol for several days before the gradual tapering of clonidine.
7.3 Digitalis Glycosides
Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia.
7.4 Calcium Channel Blockers
Nebivolol can exacerbate the effects of myocardial depressants or inhibitors of AV conduction, such as certain calcium antagonists (particularly of the phenylalkylamine [verapamil] and benzothiazepine [diltiazem] classes), or antiarrhythmic agents, such as disopyramide.
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
8.1 Pregnancy
Risk Summary
Available data regarding use of nebivolol in pregnant women are insufficient to determine whether there are drug-associated risks of adverse developmental outcomes. There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled hypertension in pregnancy. The use of beta blockers during the third trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of hypotension, bradycardia, hypoglycemia, and respiratory depression in the neonate [see Clinical Considerations]. Oral administration of nebivolol to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in embryofetal and perinatal lethality at doses approximately equivalent to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively.
Clinical Considerations
Disease-associated maternal and/or embryo/fetal risk
Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre-eclampsia, gestational diabetes, premature delivery, and delivery complications (e.g., need for cesarean section, and post-partum hemorrhage). Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death. Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly.
Fetal/Neonatal adverse reactions
Neonates of women with hypertension, who are treated with beta-blockers during the third trimester of pregnancy, may be at increased risk for hypotension, bradycardia, hypoglycemia, and respiratory depression. Observe newborns for symptoms of hypotension, bradycardia, hypoglycemia and respiratory depression and manage accordingly.
Data
Animal Data
Nebivolol was shown to increase embryo-fetal and perinatal lethality in rats at approximately 1.2 times the MRHD or 40 mg/day on a mg/m2 basis. Decreased pup body weights occurred at 1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg in rats, when exposed during the perinatal period (late gestation, parturition and lactation). At 5 mg/kg and higher doses (1.2 times the MRHD), prolonged gestation, dystocia and reduced maternal care were produced with corresponding increases in late fetal deaths and stillbirths and decreased birth weight, live litter size and pup survival. These events occurred only when nebivolol was given during the perinatal period (late gestation, parturition and lactation). Insufficient numbers of pups survived at 5 mg/kg to evaluate the offspring for reproductive performance.
In studies in which pregnant rats were given nebivolol during organogenesis, reduced fetal body weights were observed at maternally toxic doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg/day (5 and 10 times the MRHD), and small reversible delays in sternal and thoracic ossification associated with the reduced fetal body weights and a small increase in resorption occurred at 40 mg/kg/day (10 times the MRHD).
No adverse effects on embryo-fetal viability, sex, weight or morphology were observed in studies in which nebivolol was given to pregnant rabbits at doses as high as 20 mg/kg/day (10 times the MRHD).
8.2 Lactation
Risk Summary
There is no information regarding the presence of nebivolol in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Nebivolol is present in rat milk [see Data]. Because of the potential for β-blockers to produce serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, especially bradycardia, nebivolol is not recommended during nursing.
Data
In lactating rats, maximum milk levels of unchanged nebivolol were observed at 4 hours after single and repeat doses of 2.5 mg/kg/day. The daily dose (mg/kg body weight) ingested by a rat pup is 0.3% of the dam dose for unchanged nebivolol.
8.4 Pediatric Use
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Pediatric studies in ages newborn to 18 years old have not been conducted because of incomplete characterization of developmental toxicity and possible adverse effects on long-term fertility [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)].
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data
Daily oral doses of nebivolol to juvenile rats from post-natal day 14 to post-natal day 27 showed sudden unexplained death at exposures equal to those in human poor metabolizers given a single dose of 10 mg. No mortality was seen at half the adult human exposure.
In surviving rats, cardiomyopathy was seen at exposures greater than or equal to the human exposure. Male rat pups exposed to twice the human exposure showed decreases in total sperm count as well as decreases in the total and percentage of motile sperm.
8.5 Geriatric Use
Of the 2800 patients in the U.S. sponsored placebo-controlled clinical hypertension studies, 478 patients were 65 years of age or older. No overall differences in efficacy or in the incidence of adverse events were observed between older and younger patients.
8.6 Heart Failure
In a placebo-controlled trial of 2,128 patients (1,067 nebivolol, 1,061 placebo) over 70 years of age with chronic heart failure receiving a maximum dose of 10 mg per day for a median of 20 months, no worsening of heart failure was reported with nebivolol compared to placebo. However, if heart failure worsens consider discontinuation of nebivolol.
10 OVERDOSAGE
In clinical trials and worldwide postmarketing experience there were reports of nebivolol overdose. The most common signs and symptoms associated with nebivolol overdosage are bradycardia and hypotension. Other important adverse reactions reported with nebivolol overdose include cardiac failure, dizziness, hypoglycemia, fatigue and vomiting. Other adverse reactions associated with β-blocker overdose include bronchospasm and heart block.
The largest known ingestion of nebivolol worldwide involved a patient who ingested up to 500 mg of nebivolol along with several 100 mg tablets of acetylsalicylic acid in a suicide attempt. The patient experienced hyperhydrosis, pallor, depressed level of consciousness, hypokinesia, hypotension, sinus bradycardia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, respiratory failure and vomiting. The patient recovered.
Because of extensive drug binding to plasma proteins, hemodialysis is not expected to enhance nebivolol clearance.
If overdose occurs, provide general supportive and specific symptomatic treatment. Based on expected pharmacologic actions and recommendations for other β-blockers, consider the following general measures, including stopping nebivolol, when clinically warranted:
Bradycardia: Administer IV atropine. If the response is inadequate, isoproterenol or another agent with positive chronotropic properties may be given cautiously. Under some circumstances, transthoracic or transvenous pacemaker placement may be necessary.
Hypotension : Administer IV fluids and vasopressors. Intravenous glucagon may be useful.
Heart Block (second or third degree):Monitor and treat with isoproterenol infusion. Under some circumstances, transthoracic or transvenous pacemaker placement may be necessary.
Congestive Heart Failure : Initiate therapy with digitalis glycoside and diuretics. In certain cases, consider the use of inotropic and vasodilating agents.
Bronchospasm : Administer bronchodilator therapy such as a short acting inhaled β2-agonist and/or aminophylline.
Hypoglycemia : Administer IV glucose. Repeated doses of IV glucose or possibly glucagon may be required.
Supportive measures should continue until clinical stability is achieved. The half-life of low doses of nebivolol is 12 to 19 hours.
Call the National Poison Control Center (800-222-1222) for the most current information on β-blocker overdose treatment.
11 DESCRIPTION
The chemical name for the active ingredient in nebivolol tablets is (1RS, 1’RS)-1, 1’-[(2RS, 2’SR)-bis (6-fluoro-3, 4-dihydro-2H-1-benzopyran-2-yl)]- 2, 2’-iminodiethanol hydrochloride. Nebivolol is a racemate composed of d-Nebivolol and l-Nebivolol with the stereochemical designations of [SRRR]-nebivolol and [RSSS] - nebivolol, respectively. Nebivolol's molecular formula is (C22H25F2NO4•HCl) with the following structural formula:
Nebivolol hydrochloride is a white to off white crystalline powder that is sparingly soluble in dimethylformamide, slightly soluble in methanol, very slightly soluble in water and practically insoluble in 0.1 M hydrochloric acid.
Nebivolol as tablets for oral administration contains nebivolol hydrochloride equivalent to 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg of nebivolol base. In addition, nebivolol tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, D&C Red #27 (for 10 mg strength), FD&C Blue #2 (for 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg strengths), FD&C Yellow #6 (for 5 mg strength), polyethylene glycol 6000, hypromellose 15cps, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and maize starch.
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
Nebivolol is a β-adrenergic receptor blocking agent. In extensive metabolizers (most of the population) and at doses less than or equal to 10 mg, nebivolol is preferentially β1 selective. In poor metabolizers and at higher doses, nebivolol inhibits both β1 - and β2 - adrenergic receptors. Nebivolol lacks intrinsic sympathomimetic and membrane stabilizing activity at therapeutically relevant concentrations. At clinically relevant doses, nebivolol does not demonstrate α1-adrenergic receptor blockade activity. Various metabolites, including glucuronides, contribute to β-blocking activity.
12.1 Mechanism of Action
The mechanism of action of the antihypertensive response of nebivolol has not been definitively established. Possible factors that may be involved include: (1) decreased heart rate, (2) decreased myocardial contractility, (3) diminution of tonic sympathetic outflow to the periphery from cerebral vasomotor centers, (4) suppression of renin activity and (5) vasodilation and decreased peripheral vascular resistance.
12.3 Pharmacokinetics
Nebivolol is metabolized by a number of routes, including glucuronidation and hydroxylation by CYP2D6. The active isomer (d-nebivolol) has an effective half-life of about 12 hours in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers (most people), and 19 hours in poor metabolizers and exposure to d-nebivolol is substantially increased in poor metabolizers. This has less importance than usual, however, because the metabolites, including the hydroxyl metabolite and glucuronides (the predominant circulating metabolites), contribute to β-blocking activity.
Plasma levels of d–nebivolol increase in proportion to dose in EMs and PMs for doses up to 20 mg. Exposure to l- nebivolol is higher than to d-nebivolol but l-nebivolol contributes little to the drug's activity as d-nebivolol's beta receptor affinity is greater than 1,000-fold higher than l-nebivolol. For the same dose, PMs attain a 5-fold higher Cmax and 10-fold higher AUC of d-nebivolol than do EMs. d-Nebivolol accumulates about 1.5-fold with repeated once-daily dosing in EMs.
Absorption
Absorption of nebivolol is similar to an oral solution. The absolute bioavailability has not been determined.
Mean peak plasma nebivolol concentrations occur approximately 1.5 to 4 hours post-dosing in EMs and PMs.
Food does not alter the pharmacokinetics of nebivolol. Under fed conditions, nebivolol glucuronides are slightly reduced. Nebivolol may be administered without regard to meals.
Distribution
The in vitro human plasma protein binding of nebivolol is approximately 98%, mostly to albumin, and is independent of nebivolol concentrations.
Metabolism
Nebivolol is predominantly metabolized via direct glucuronidation of parent and to a lesser extent via N-dealkylation and oxidation via cytochrome P450 2D6. Its stereospecific metabolites contribute to the pharmacologic activity [see Drug Interactions (7)].
Elimination
After a single oral administration of 14C-nebivolol, 38% of the dose was recovered in urine and 44% in feces for EMs and 67% in urine and 13% in feces for PMs. Essentially all nebivolol was excreted as multiple oxidative metabolites or their corresponding glucuronide conjugates.
12.4 Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations
Hepatic Disease
d-Nebivolol peak plasma concentration increased 3-fold, exposure (AUC) increased 10-fold, and the apparent clearance decreased by 86% in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). No formal studies have been performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment and nebivolol should be contraindicated for these patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)].
Renal Disease
The apparent clearance of nebivolol was unchanged following a single 5 mg dose of nebivolol in patients with mild renal impairment (ClCr 50 to 80 mL/min, n=7), and it was reduced negligibly in patients with moderate (ClCr 30 to 50 mL/min, n=9), but clearance was reduced by 53% in patients with severe renal impairment (ClCr less than 30 mL/min, n=5). No studies have been conducted in patients on dialysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)].
12.5 Drug-Drug Interactions
Drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 can be expected to increase plasma levels of nebivolol. When nebivolol is co- administered with an inhibitor or an inducer of this enzyme, monitor patients closely and adjust the nebivolol dose according to blood pressure response. In vitro studies have demonstrated that at therapeutically relevant concentrations, d- and l-nebivolol do not inhibit any cytochrome P450 pathways.
Digoxin : Concomitant administration of nebivolol (10 mg once daily) and digoxin (0.25 mg once daily) for 10 days in 14 healthy adult individuals resulted in no significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of digoxin or nebivolol [see Drug Interactions (7)].
Warfarin : Administration of nebivolol (10 mg once daily for 10 days) led to no significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of nebivolol or R- or S-warfarin following a single 10 mg dose of warfarin. Similarly, nebivolol has no significant effects on the anticoagulant activity of warfarin, as assessed by Prothrombin time and INR profiles from 0 to 144 hours after a single 10 mg warfarin dose in 12 healthy adult volunteers.
Diuretics : No pharmacokinetic interactions were observed in healthy adults between nebivolol (10 mg daily for 10 days) and furosemide (40 mg single dose), hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg once daily for 10 days), or spironolactone (25 mg once daily for 10 days).
Ramipril : Concomitant administration of nebivolol (10 mg once daily) and ramipril (5 mg once daily) for 10 days in 15 healthy adult volunteers produced no pharmacokinetic interactions.
Losartan : Concomitant administration of nebivolol (10 mg single dose) and losartan (50 mg single dose) in 20 healthy adult volunteers did not result in pharmacokinetic interactions.
Fluoxetine : Fluoxetine, a CYP2D6 inhibitor, administered at 20 mg per day for 21 days prior to a single 10 mg dose of nebivolol to 10 healthy adults, led to an 8-fold increase in the AUC and 3-fold increase in Cmax for d- nebivolol [see Drug Interactions (7)].
Histamine-2 Receptor Antagonists : The pharmacokinetics of nebivolol (5 mg single dose) were not affected by the co-administration of ranitidine (150 mg twice daily). Cimetidine (400 mg twice daily) causes a 23% increase in the plasma levels of d-nebivolol.
Charcoal : The pharmacokinetics of nebivolol (10 mg single dose) were not affected by repeated co- administration (4, 8, 12, 16, 22, 28, 36, and 48 hours after nebivolol administration) of activated charcoal (Actidose-Aqua®).
Sildenafil : The co-administration of nebivolol and sildenafil decreased AUC and Cmax of sildenafil by 21 and 23% respectively. The effect on the Cmax and AUC for d-nebivolol was also small (Less than 20%). The effect on vital signs (e.g., pulse and blood pressure) was approximately the sum of the effects of sildenafil and nebivolol.
Other Concomitant Medications : Utilizing population pharmacokinetic analyses, derived from hypertensive patients, the following drugs were observed not to have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of nebivolol: acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, atorvastatin, esomeprazole, ibuprofen, levothyroxine sodium, metformin, sildenafil, simvastatin, or tocopherol.
Protein Binding : No meaningful changes in the extent of in vitro binding of nebivolol to human plasma proteins were noted in the presence of high concentrations of diazepam, digoxin, diphenylhydantoin, enalapril, hydrochlorothiazide, imipramine, indomethacin, propranolol, sulfamethazine, tolbutamide, or warfarin. Additionally, nebivolol did not significantly alter the protein binding of the following drugs: diazepam, digoxin, diphenylhydantoin, hydrochlorothiazide, imipramine, or warfarin at their therapeutic concentrations.
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
In a two-year study of nebivolol in mice, a statistically significant increase in the incidence of testicular Leydig cell hyperplasia and adenomas was observed at 40 mg/kg/day (5 times the maximally recommended human dose of 40 mg on a mg/m2 basis). Similar findings were not reported in mice administered doses equal to approximately 0.3 or 1.2 times the maximum recommended human dose. No evidence of a tumorigenic effect was observed in a 24-month study in Wistar rats receiving doses of nebivolol 2.5, 10 and 40 mg/kg/day (equivalent to 0.6, 2.4, and 10 times the maximally recommended human dose). Co-administration of dihydrotestosterone reduced blood LH levels and prevented the Leydig cell hyperplasia, consistent with an indirect LH-mediated effect of nebivolol in mice and not thought to be clinically relevant in man.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled, parallel-group study in healthy male volunteers was conducted to determine the effects of nebivolol on adrenal function, luteinizing hormone, and testosterone levels. This study demonstrated that 6 weeks of daily dosing with 10 mg of nebivolol had no significant effect on ACTH-stimulated mean serum cortisol AUC0-120 min, serum LH, or serum total testosterone.
Effects on spermatogenesis were seen in male rats and mice at ≥ 40 mg/kg/day (10 and 5 times the MRHD, respectively). For rats the effects on spermatogenesis were not reversed and may have worsened during a four week recovery period. The effects of nebivolol on sperm in mice, however, were partially reversible.
Mutagenesis: Nebivolol was not genotoxic when tested in a battery of assays (Ames, in vitro mouse lymphoma TK+/-, in vitro human peripheral lymphocyte chromosome aberration, in vivo Drosophila melanogaster sex-linked recessive lethal, and in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus tests).
14 CLINICAL STUDIES
14.1 Hypertension
The antihypertensive effectiveness of nebivolol as monotherapy has been demonstrated in three randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled trials at doses ranging from 1.25 to 40 mg for 12 weeks (Studies 1, 2, and 3). A fourth placebo-controlled trial demonstrated additional antihypertensive effects of nebivolol at doses ranging from 5 to 20 mg when administered concomitantly with up to two other antihypertensive agents (ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, and thiazide diuretics) in patients with inadequate blood pressure control.
The three monotherapy trials included a total of 2,016 patients (1,811 nebivolol, 205 placebo) with mild to moderate hypertension who had baseline diastolic blood pressures (DBP) of 95 to 109 mmHg. Patients received either nebivolol or placebo once daily for twelve weeks. Two of these monotherapy trials (Studies 1 and 2) studied 1,716 patients in the general hypertensive population with a mean age of 54 years, 55% males, 26% non-Caucasians, 7% diabetics and 6% genotyped as PMs. The third monotherapy trial (Study 3) studied 300 Black patients with a mean age of 51 years, 45% males, 14% diabetics, and 3% as PMs.
Placebo-subtracted blood pressure reductions by dose for each study are presented in Table 2. Most studies showed increasing response to doses above 5 mg.
Table 2. Placebo-Subtracted Least-Square Mean Reductions in Trough Sitting Systolic/Diastolic Blood Pressure (SiSBP/SiDBP mmHg) by Dose in Studies with Once Daily Nebivolol
Nebivolol dose (mg)
1.25
2.5
5.0
10
20
30 to 40
Study 1
-6.6*/-5.1*
-8.5*/-5.6*
-8.1*/-5.5*
-9.2*/-6.3*
-8.7*/-6.9*
-11.7*/-8.3*
Study 2
-3.8/-3.2*
-3.1/-3.9*
-6.3*/-4.5*
Study 3¶
-1.5/-2.9
-2.6/-4.9*
-6.0*/-6.1*
-7.2*/-6.1*
-6.8*/-5.5*
Study 4^
-5.7*/-3.3*
-3.7*/-3.5*
-6.2*/-4.6*
* p<0.05 based on pair-wise comparison vs. placebo
¶ Study enrolled only African Americans.
^ Study on top of one or two other antihypertensive medications.
Study 4 enrolled 669 patients with a mean age of 54 years, 55% males, 54% Caucasians, 29% Blacks, 15% Hispanics, 1% Asians, 14% diabetics, and 5% PMs. Nebivolol, 5 mg to 20 mg, administered once daily concomitantly with stable doses of up to two other antihypertensive agents (ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, and thiazide diuretics) resulted in significant additional antihypertensive effects over placebo compared to baseline blood pressure.
Effectiveness was similar in subgroups analyzed by age and sex. Effectiveness was established in Blacks, but as monotherapy the magnitude of effect was somewhat less than in Caucasians.
The blood pressure lowering effect of nebivolol was seen within two weeks of treatment and was maintained over the 24-hour dosing interval.
There are no trials of Nebivolol tablets demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension, but at least one pharmacologically similar drug has demonstrated such benefits.
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
Nebivolol is available as tablets for oral administration containing nebivolol hydrochloride equivalent to 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg of nebivolol.
Nebivolol tablets are uncoated round-shaped, beveled edge, biconvex, unscored, mottled, differentiated by color and are debossed with “NL” on one side and the number of mg (2.5, 5, 10, or 20) on the other side. Nebivolol tablets are supplied in the following strengths and package configurations:
Nebivolol Tablets
Tablet Strength
Package Configuration
NDC #
Tablet Color
2.5 mg
Bottle of 30
67877-393-30
Light Blue
Bottle of 100
67877-393-01
Bottle of 90
67877-393-90
Carton of 10 (1 x 10) Unit-dose Tablets
67877-393-33
5 mg
Bottle of 30
67877-392-30
Beige
Bottle of 100
67877-392-01
Bottle of 90
67877-392-90
Carton of 10 (1 x 10) Unit-dose Tablets
67877-392-33
10 mg
Bottle of 30
67877-391-30
Pinkish-Purple
Bottle of 100
67877-391-01
Bottle of 90
67877-391-90
Carton of 10 (1 x 10) Unit-dose Tablets
67877-391-33
20 mg
Bottle of 30
67877-390-30
Light Blue
Bottle of 100
67877-390-01
Bottle of 90
67877-390-90
Carton of 10 (1 x 10) Unit-dose Tablets
67877-390-33
Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP for Controlled Room Temperature].
Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure.
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
See FDA-approved patient labeling (Patient Information).
Patient Advice
Advise patients to take nebivolol regularly and continuously, as directed. Nebivolol can be taken with or without food. If a dose is missed, take the next scheduled dose only (without doubling it). Do not interrupt or discontinue nebivolol without consulting the physician.
Patients should know how they react to this medicine before they operate automobiles, use machinery, or engage in other tasks requiring alertness.
Advise patients to consult a physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs, or if they develop signs or symptoms of worsening congestive heart failure such as weight gain or increasing shortness of breath, or excessive bradycardia.
Caution patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents, that β-blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia.
Manufactured by:
Alkem Laboratories Ltd.,
INDIA.
Distributed by:
Ascend Laboratories, LLC
Parsippany, NJ 07054
Actidose-Aqua® is a registered trademark of Paddock Laboratories, LLC
PATIENT INFORMATION
Nebivolol (ne-BIV-oh-lol) Tablets
Read the Patient Information that comes with nebivolol tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment. If you have any questions about nebivolol tablets, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
WHAT IS NEBIVOLOL TABLET?
Nebivolol tablet is a kind of prescription medicine called a "beta-blocker". Nebivolol tablet treats:
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Nebivolol tablet can lower blood pressure when used by itself and with other medicines.
Nebivolol tablet is not approved for children less than 18 years of age.
WHO SHOULD NOT TAKE NEBIVOLOL TABLETS?
Do not take nebivolol tablets if you:
Have heart failure and are in the ICU or need medicines to keep up your blood circulation
Have a slow heartbeat or your heart skips beats (irregular heartbeat)
Have severe liver damage
Are allergic to any ingredient in nebivolol tablets. The active ingredient is nebivolol. See the end of this leaflet for a list of ingredients.
WHAT SHOULD I TELL MY DOCTOR BEFORE TAKING NEBIVOLOL TABLETS?
Tell your doctor about all of your medical problems, including if you:
Have asthma or other lung problems (such as bronchitis or emphysema)
Have problems with blood flow in your feet and legs (peripheral vascular disease) Nebivolol tablets can make symptoms of blood flow problems worse.
Have diabetes and take medicine to control blood sugar
Have thyroid problems
Have liver or kidney problems
Had allergic reactions to medications or have allergies
Have a condition called pheochromocytoma
Are pregnant or trying to become pregnant. It is not known if nebivolol tablet is safe for your unborn baby. Talk with your doctor about the best way to treat high blood pressure while you are pregnant.
Are breastfeeding. It is not known if nebivolol passes into your breast milk. You should not breastfeed while using nebivolol tablets.
Are scheduled for surgery and will be given anesthetic agents
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take. Include prescription and non-prescription medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Nebivolol tablets and certain other medicines can affect each other and cause serious side effects.
Keep a list of all the medicines you take. Show this list to your doctor and pharmacist before you start a new medicine.
HOW SHOULD I TAKE NEBIVOLOL TABLETS?
Do not suddenly stop taking nebivolol tablets. You could have chest pain or a heart attack. If your doctor decides to stop nebivolol tablets, your doctor may slowly lower your dose over time before stopping it completely.
Take nebivolol tablets every day exactly as your doctor tells you. Your doctor will tell you how much nebivolol tablets to take and how often. Your doctor may start with a low dose and raise it over time.
Do not stop taking nebivolol tablets or change your dose without talking with your doctor.
Take nebivolol tablets with or without food.
If you miss a dose, take your dose as soon as you remember, unless it is close to the time to take your next dose. Do not take 2 doses at the same time. Take your next dose at the usual time.
If you take too much nebivolol tablets, call your doctor or poison control center right away.
WHAT ARE POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS OF NEBIVOLOL TABLETS?
Low blood pressure and feeling dizzy. If you feel dizzy, sit or lie down and tell your doctor right away.
Tiredness
Slow heartbeat
Headache
Leg swelling due to fluid retention (edema). Tell your doctor if you gain weight or have trouble breathing while taking nebivolol tablets.
Tell your doctor if you have any side effects that bother you or don't go away.
HOW SHOULD I STORE NEBIVOLOL TABLETS?
Store nebivolol tablets between 68° to 77°F (20° to 25°C).
Safely throw away nebivolol tablets that is out of date or no longer needed.
Keep nebivolol tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children.
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT NEBIVOLOL TABLETS
Doctors sometimes prescribe medicines for conditions not included in the patient information leaflets.
Only use nebivolol tablets for the medical problem it was prescribed for.
Do not give nebivolol tablets to other people, even if they have the same symptoms. It may harm them.
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about nebivolol tablets. For more information:
Talk with your doctor.
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about nebivolol tablets that is written for healthcare professionals.
Call on Ascend Laboratories, LLC at 1-877-ASC-RX01 (877-272-7901)
WHAT IS IN NEBIVOLOL TABLETS?
Active Ingredient: Nebivolol
Inactive Ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, D&C Red #27 (for 10 mg strength), FD&C Blue #2 (for 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg strengths), FD&C Yellow #6 (for 5 mg strength), polyethylene glycol 6000, hypromellose 15cps, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and maize starch.
WHAT IS HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE (HYPERTENSION)?
Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests. You have high blood pressure when the force is too great.
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood through the body and causes damage to the blood vessels. Nebivolol tablets can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower. Medicines that lower your blood pressure lower your chance of having a stroke or heart attack.
TechAmerica choose leaders to head Big Data Commission -- GCN
New commission aims to help government tap into big data
Several industry thought leaders will head a Big Data Commission of 22 experts and academics who will provide guidance to government and business on how the large troves of data being collected today can drive U.S. innovation and competitiveness, according to the TechAmerica Foundation.
Steve Mills, senior vice president and group executive at IBM, and Steve Lucas, global executive vice president and general manager for database and technology at SAP, will chair the commission. Serving as vice chairs are Teresa Carlson, vice president of Global Public Sector for Amazon Web Services, and Bill Perlowitz, chief technology officer of Wyle's Science, Technology and Engineering Group.
"The problem today is not gathering data but rather making intelligent, actionable decisions based on the volume, velocity and variety of data we are receiving," said Jennifer Kerber, president of the TechAmerica Foundation.
Commission presents road map, buyer's guide for moving to cloud
"I am excited about launching this commission and hope that we can leverage the best and brightest industry, academic and government minds to determine how to use big data to drive innovation, efficiencies and effectiveness in the public sector," Kerber said.
Big data is a hot topic for the technology community and is becoming a focal point for government, with the Obama administration recently announcing a $200 million Big Data Research and Development Initiative.
"We are entering a new era of computing where information is growing at a record pace," Mills said. "The winners and losers will be [determined by] those who can innovate faster based on strategic insights drawn from the variety and velocity of new forms of big data being generated every day."
"By gaining deeper insights into this vast new natural resource, the opportunities to accelerate the pace of discovery in science and engineering and develop information-intensive curriculum is unlimited," Mills said.
"The world's data is doubling every 18 months, presenting government and industry with new opportunities to transform information into insight," Lucas said. "New database technologies and applications, coupled with real-time analysis of big data, will help business and government run better and ultimately improve the well-being of customers and citizens," Lucas noted.
Industry leaders hope that by bringing private-sector innovation to the public sector, the commission will help leaders address some of the biggest questions facing government today, Lucas said.
The commission expects to take up such issues as: What capabilities are required to succeed? How do you use big data to make intelligent decisions? How will agencies effectively govern and secure huge volumes of information while protecting privacy and civil liberties? And, perhaps most important, how do we use big data to transform how the government delivers services?
"The federal government is under increasing pressure to innovate and do more with less," Carlson said. At the same time, it has been among the most forward-leaning entities in taking advantage of the benefits of the cloud and big data, Carlson added.
"Big data has the potential to increase efficiency, improve the speed and accuracy of decisions, forecast the future, identify savings, increase transparency, create jobs and provide insight into our agencies and citizenry," Perlowitz said.
"This is a hugely disruptive force occurring during challenging economic times," he said, adding that the technical, cultural, organizational and policy challenges data poses must be examined.
The commission membership is made up of leading experts on big data and represent both industry and academia. The full list of members can be found here.
The TechAmerica Foundation also convened commission to provide recommendations to the Obama administration, as well as state and local government, on the deployment of cloud technologies.
The Commission on the Leadership Opportunity in U.S. Deployment of the Cloud provided 14 recommendations and a Cloud First Buyer's Guide for Government to the Obama administration at press conference in Washington, D.C., in July 2011.
To highlight the release of its report and recommendations on cloud computing adoption by state and local governments, the TechAmerica Foundation in February convened a Silicon Valley conference for state and local government officials and technology executives. The event featured a review of the report's major findings and recommendations and the unveiling of an online state and local government Cloud Portal Collaborative Community.
Breast Cancer Survival Rates – Stage 4 Breast Cancer - Wish Everyone Good Health
9:00 pm	Stage 4 breast cancer has the bottom breast cancer survival rates than any of the other breast cancer stages. The median survival rate of a woman who has been diagnosed with stage 4 cancer of the breast in a 5 year span is at 16 to 20 percent in accordance to the explore conducted by the American Cancer Society. While this stage the malignant cancer cells have already overcame the natural defence system of the body and have started to infect other tissues including the bone, lung and liver tissues in the body as well.
Among women in the whole United States today, around 5% of white women and around 9% among black women have a cancer of the breast tumor that could spread to distant tissues in a matter of weeks or months. This is ordinarily the case blamed on poverty or lack of health insurance.
According to the American cancer society, women in normal who have been diagnosed with stage 4 breast cancer are given an approximate of 18 months to live following the diagnosis. Those who managed to live after 5 years of prognosis are given at the very least further three and a half years more to live following the diagnosis.
Since stage 4 breast cancer is the deadliest type or kind of all cancer of the breast. It is very leading to find a doctor who can supply or advice the inpatient the very best potential medicine that are available. There are a lot of innovations in technology that are showing up from time to time that may be the key to finally witness the exquisite clarification in the battle against this type of cancer.
The most considerable or leading key to increasing one's breast cancer survival rates are stoppage and early detection. For a cancer tumor in the breast detected in the earliest stages with a survival rate that goes as high as 98% chance of cure. Each level that the tumor grows, the survival rate drops down until the final phase. One's chance of being cured at this stage drops down from 16 up to 20%.
Procedures like monthly self breast test must be done by women at least 20 to 40 years old. A salutary woman should have a breast test with their trusted doctor or scholar at least once every three years. At the tender age of 40, a woman should have breast test yearly and should undergo mammography or a similar procedure.
Related Health TopicsBreast Cancer Survival RateBreast Cancer Survival Rates – Stage 1 Breast CancerBreast Cancer Symptoms – First Five Warning SignsBreast Cancer Survival Rate – Stage 2 Breast CancerBreast Cancer Survival Rates – Stage 1 Breast Cancer
Behavioral health information technology enhancement – Steve Hicks School of Social Work – University of Texas
Home » Center for Social Work Research » Projects » Behavioral health information technology enhancement
Behavioral health information technology enhancement	(2019)
In a recent Ohio Health Issues Poll, one in five adults living in Southeastern Indiana, reported that they had friends or family members who had experienced problems as a result of abusing prescription pain relievers. Additionally, one in four adults report binge drinking, higher than regional averages and national targets. There is a need for new, innovative approaches to improve access, retention, and outcomes for substance use treatment.
The Behavioral Health Information Technology Enhancement (B-HITE) Initiative focuses on enhancing substance use services through the use of electronic decision support, implementation of evidence-based practices, and adoption of a mobile application.
Deborah Cohen is leading the evaluation of the project, which is targeting the services provided to adults involved in the justice and child welfare systems and who are served by a rural community mental health center in Southeastern Indiana. The evaluation will focus on the use of electronic decision support, mobile application, and cross-system collaborations to improve substance-use treatment outcomes.
The project will significantly impact the lives of many individuals in a region hard hit by the national opioid epidemic. The information provided by the evaluation will help to inform the limited research available on effective behavioral health information technology.
Westfall Associates Inc OP is based in Rochester, New York - (919 Westfall Road 14618). The program can be contacted at 585-473-1500.
Westfall Associates Inc OP accepts Cash Payment, Private Insurance for Addiction Treatment, Sliding Fee Scale Payment for the various programs that they offers, like Behavioral Therapy, Services to Reduce the Risk of Relapse, 12-Step Support Group Therapy Approach. It provides their services in various environments, including Outpatient Rehabilitation.
The center provides all of its services for the following care types: Addiction Recovery Services, Addiction Treatment Programs. Finally, the program has a number of individualized programs for individuals, including Drug Rehab for Persons with Co-Occurring Mental and Substance Use Disorders, Drug Rehab for Adolescents, Drug Rehab for Adult Women, Drug Rehab for Adult Men, Aftercare Programming, Drug Abuse Assessment, Mental Health Treatment, Screening for Drug Addiction.
Ready To Get Help?
We can help you find the right treatment facility that best fits your overall needs and financial requirements.
Investigators with the United States Department of Agriculture are working with poultry producers in Missouri after a case of highly pathogenic avian flu was discovered in SW Missouri.
4
View on Facebook
Share
Webster County Health Unit
6 days 6 hours ago
And just like that, THEY CROSS THE FINISH LINE! Congratulations to this year's winners: First
63
View on Facebook
Share
Webster County Health Unit
6 days 6 hours ago
We even had a few four legged wobblers!
20
View on Facebook
Share
Tuberculosis Control
Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis is a communicable disease caused by bacteria. It is spread from person to person by respiratory droplets. We work to treat clients with tuberculosis in order to prevent the disease from spreading. We also provide contact investigation and follow-up to individuals who may have been exposed to someone with tuberculosis, in order to prevent spread of the disease.
Testing
Testing is provided on a as-needed, walk-in basis. There is a $10 fee for testing as well as the $7 administrative fee to cover supplies.
Case Management
Nurse case managers provide one-on-one attention to clients with latent tuberculosis infection or tuberculosis disease. Clients meet with a nurse case manager on a routine basis during the treatment period to assess the patient’s physical response to the medication and to ensure the medication is taken properly. The treatment period may vary depending upon the client’s individual needs and response to treatment. Clients with a primary healthcare provider or specialist may have their care coordinated through the nurse case manager and their personal physician.
Guest Blogger - Has COVID-19 triggered manic or depressive episodes for people with bipolar disorder? By Patrick Bailey. - Roaming Brit
Guest Blogger - Has COVID-19 triggered manic or depressive episodes for people with bipolar disorder? By Patrick Bailey.
Having bipolar disorder can be challenging enough during normal times. In the midst of a global pandemic, however, the stakes grow even higher.
People diagnosed with bipolar disorder experience extreme emotional episodes. Manic phases are characterized by a seemingly perpetual state of mental and/or physical motion. The depressive stages are the plummeting lows that follow. Liken it to a sugar rush and the resulting crash, but much, much worse and infinitely more complex.
There's no singular cause. Bipolar disorder tends to set in more frequently among people once they reach their mid-twenties. Genetics are a factor -- a parent or sibling with bipolar disorder makes a person more likely to develop manic depression -- but so does one's environment or how much stress they experience.
Each case is unique, though there are common threads, which are useful in helping to manage the condition.
Medications like mood stabilizers and psychotherapy help. So does a person's lifestyle choices. Regular sleep, stress management, a healthy diet, and exercise can keep the highs and lows better in check. Manic episodes can be brought on by alcohol or drug use or insufficient sleep, so avoiding those are key.
The COVID-19 global pandemic has brought unmeasurable stress to people around the world. News near and far of death, suffering, job losses, isolation, shutdowns, social media mania. Not too many people could say the domino effect of the coronavirus left feelings of happiness and security in their hearts and minds.
Those with bipolar disorder tend to be particularly sensitive and responsive to stress, compared to non-manic individuals.
To some extent not all stress can be avoided, but it can be better managed, not only for the mental health of the bipolar person, but also the physical health.
People with bipolar disorder must take extra care in this uncertain time to keep on an even keel.
Sticking to a regular sleep pattern is extremely important. A lack of regular shuteye can trigger bouts of mania. Ideally once you realize (or perhaps someone has pointed out) that you're not getting enough sleep, reach out to a mental health provider. Even one night of missed sleep can spark a manic episode.
Bipolar individuals admit they tend to experience more of the depressed phase of the disorder. With all the negativity and fear dominating headlines and social media streams, that can spike anxiety and make a person dwell on worst-case scenarios.
Ward off negativity by being prepared. Find out if your mental health provider is seeing people. In-office visits may not be an option, but online or phone sessions may be.
Be sure you have enough medications, too, and understand you may need extra mood stabilizers or something more for anxiety while things are shut down or scaled back.
Be sure to keep in contact with family, friends, or loved ones. Checking in keeps you to a schedule and lets them know you're okay.
If you suspect an episode is coming on, reach out to your doctor or therapist, and sooner rather than later.
Social distancing has meant more isolation, but too much time on Facebook, Twitter, or whatever your social media of choice may be can be just as detrimental to mood and mental health.
It's easy to fall down a rabbit hole of misinformation when reading sensational news headlines. Be sure to get updates from recognized authorities like the World Health Organization, and avoid hearsay, unverified sources, and the trolls who lurk in most stories' comments sections.
And if you do chance upon trolls, make it a point to step away. Arguing with people, especially those cemented to their ideas and points of views, isn't good for anyone's mindset.
If you have a go-to activity like yoga or drawing, do that instead. That along with regular meals, a solid sleep schedule, taking your medication, sticking to appointments (even if it's only online support groups), frequently washing hands and masking in public, and not resorting to drinking or drugging can help ward off manic phases.
Mental Health Helps Physical Health
People with severe mental illness have been hit hard by COVID-19.
Mental health issues usually coincide with challenges that make it harder for people to access food, medications, stable housing, jobs, or healthcare (where applicable), putting them in greater danger of getting or spreading the coronavirus.
Some people with mental illness may not have the means to purchase a smartphone or computer. With telehealth options eluding them, they may not be able to attend therapy during lockdowns.
Substance misuse is more prevalent among the mentally ill, too, and that's tied to a greater susceptibility to infectious diseases.
Higher numbers of mentally ill people smoke cigarettes as well, which puts them at greater risk for diseases like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma. Pneumonia and influenza are some of the leading causes of death for people with mental illness. Underlying lung disease from smoking can be a factor.
People with severe mental illness are also more prone to behaviors that lead to diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and poor cholesterol. All can add to the risk of developing more dangerous COVID-19 complications.
People with bipolar disorder and other mental illnesses may also be more prone to engage in other risky behaviors like not taking proper safety precautions or practicing social distancing and self-care.
Along with neglecting some self-care, there tends to be some distrust of the healthcare system overall among some mentally ill folks. That could be due to previous trauma in hospitals. With the pandemic putting a strain on medical centers and psychiatric units, COVID makes it especially challenging for those with mental health issues, especially if they're experiencing the extreme highs and lows that define their condition.
The data is still building about the coronavirus and how it is affecting all aspects of society. There may not yet be a vaccine for the virus, we do know that keeping mentally healthy by following a schedule, practicing self-care, sticking to social distancing, masking in public, and frequent hand washing can dramatically increase the likelihood of emerging from this pandemic unscathed.
Rosacea Pipeline Drugs: Opportunity Assessments, Epidemiology Forecast, Market Dynamics and Pipeline Analysis H2 2020 | Credible Markets
Credible Markets's Pipeline Drugs Analytics Report "Rosacea Pipeline Drugs: Opportunity Assessments, Epidemiology Forecast, Market Dynamics and Pipeline Analysis H2 2020" provides a detailed overview on Rosacea Competitive Space. Report provides deep insights on pipeline drug's influence on ongoing and near future market and market dynamics, drivers, restraints and unmet needs of Rosacea pipeline drugs, pipeline analytics outlook, pipeline analytics, epidemiological studies, deals analytics, patent analytics of pipeline drugs, pipeline drug descriptions and development milestones, clinical trial analytics, competitive landscape through benchmarking and opportunity assessments and emerging company profiles.
Credible Markets's Pipeline Drugs Analytics Report assess the estimated market share of late clinical stage pipeline drugs post their regulatory approvals by analyzing the already approved drugs market data analytics and through epidemiological studies. Thereby report provides clear outline on how current late stage pipeline drugs can influence the near future market and market dynamics specific to Rosacea.
Report offers and provides a deep knowledge on the drivers, restraints and unmet needs and the opportunities derived upon a far-reaching study on the market trends and underlying factors affecting Rosacea landscape.
The report bestows explicit information about the collaborations and partnering activities and trend in Rosacea landscape, including details about different deals types like Mergers and Acquisitions, Licensing deals, Partnering deals, Collaboration Agreements, Series Financings, Grants and Fundings, etc occurring between 2010-2020.
The section even contains a thorough analysis on the intellectual property pertaining to Rosacea pipeline drugs. Profound analytics have been provided related to the patent issuance and applications, patent expiries, patent extensions, etc to gain a complete knowledge on the new market entries filling up the gaps due to the patent expiries.
The report is inclusive of all the updated clinical trials information, providing details related to the completed clinical trials, ongoing clinical trials, planned clinical trials, even including complete analytics based on sponsors (companies, universities and institutes) involved in the development of Rosacea Therapeutics.
The report is an absolute package covering all the companies - Established and emerging companies (Clinical-stage companies, pre-clinical stage companies, startups) actively involved in the R&D of new therapeutics for the treatment of Rosacea. Report provided opportunity assessments by performing a competitive and comparative analysis on the top 20 Emerging companies in the competitive space.
