Cough At Night | The Health and Wellness Times
Mediteranean diet reduces kids asthma risk by 78%
November 6, 2008 by AnnA
Filed under Childrens Health, Diets, Food & Nutrition
With 1 in 11 children currently receiving treatment for asthma it is now a very common condition – but that doesn't make it any the less worrying. We have dealt with asthma before, but some news in this week might help make life easier for some of those children, and their parents. For those who are unsure about asthma in young children, the symptoms to look out for are:
* A cough at night
* A cold that doesn't go away
* A whistling sound when breathing out
That last symptom is particularly relevant in the UK as we apparently have the highest prevalence of severe wheeze in children aged 13-14 years than anywhere else in the world.
Now the medical journal Allergy is suggesting a way parents can be more in control of the condition through some simple dietary changes. I have talked about the health benefits of the Mediterranean diet for heart health in adults, but now it seems it could also relieve asthma symptoms in children. In Crete, where the Mediterranean diet is the norm, an estimated 80% of the children there eat fresh fruit at least twice a day and almost that same number also have fresh vegetables twice daily as well. (Sadly the research doesn't tell us how they get them to eat so much without a fistfight) So why is it important? Well very few children in Crete have asthma or hay fever and the researchers from the University of Porto in Portugal concluded that their best asthma-fighting foods were oranges, apples, tomatoes and grapes.
Adults on the same type of diet, who had asthma, were found to have fewer attacks and flare-ups. However, if they also included nuts in their diet at least three times a week then that produced less wheezing. A likely explanation for this is that nuts contain a lot of magnesium which helps boost your lung power.
AVOID THIS: There was however one substance that the researchers found that would double the risk of children getting asthma and allergic rhinitis – margarine. This finding confirms what an Australian study found over 7 years ago when they first warned that the polyunsaturated fats found in many margarines can double a child's chances of having asthma.
If you want more information, please visit www.asthma.org.uk
Tags: apples, asthma, asthma in children, asthma symptoms in children, cold that doesn't go away, cough at night, grapes, margarine, medical journal Allergy, Mediterranean diet, oranges, tomatoes, wheeze, whistling sound when breathing out
Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet | Esomeprazole | Nexium | Precautions | Uses
Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet
Availability: IN STOCK SKU: CMS3774
Use Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet to treat Gastroesophagal Reflux Disease. Get it now from our online medicine shop in USA and avail fast and secure delivery.
It prevents my stomach gastric problem in a very short time
CMS3774
Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole)
What Is The Generic Name For Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet:
Esomeprazole is the generic version for Actipraz 40 mg Tablet
Which International Brand is Equivalent To Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
About Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole)
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet contains an active ingredient, Esomeprazole, is used in the treatment of Gastroesophageal reflux disease (Acid reflux) & Peptic ulcer disease. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a disease which is a severe form of acid reflux. When you have regular episodes of acid reflux (more than twice a week) it may possibly be a sign of Gastroesophageal reflux disease. The acid's backflow irritates the food pipe lining & may cause inflammation. You may experience frequent regurgitation & heartburn, usually after eating. You may experience feeling of a lump in your throat & have difficulty swallowing. Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) is a disease in which there is rupture in the inner lining of the stomach, 1st part of the small intestine or occasionally in the lower esophagus. An ulcer in the stomach is known as gastric ulcer, whereas that in the first part of the intestines is a duodenal ulcer. The most familiar symptoms of a duodenal ulcer are waking at night with upper abdominal pain or upper abdominal pain which improves with eating. With a gastric ulcer the pain might worsen with eating. Other symptoms may include belching, weight loss, vomiting, or poor appetite. Complications may also include bleeding, perforation & blockage of the stomach. This medicine is available at all the leading pharmacy, drugstores, & medical supply stores & must be taken strictly by doctor's prescription only.
Invision Medi Sciences Pvt Ltd. is one of the leading pharmaceutical companies which manufacture Actipraz 40 mg Tablet.
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet contains an active constituent, Esomeprazole (40 mg). It is obtainable in other substitutes also at all the leading online pharmacy, drugstores, and medical supply stores.
What Are The Uses Of The Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet is used in the treatment in following conditions:
How Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole) Works:
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet has an active ingredient; Esomeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) which works by plummeting the amount of acid in the stomach that helps in relief of acid related indigestion & heartburn. Esomeprazole exhibits the stomach acid-suppressing effects by means of preventing the final step in gastric acid formation by covalently binding to sulfhydryl groups of cysteines found on the ATPase enzyme at the secretory surface of gastric parietal cell. This consequence leads to inhibition of both basal & stimulated gastric acid secretion, irrespective of the stimulus. Since the binding of Esomeprazole to the ATPase enzyme is irreversible & new enzyme desires to be expressed in order to begin again acid secretion, Esomeprazole's period of antisecretory effect which persists longer than 24 hours.
Before You Use Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
What Should You Avoid While Taking Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
When Not To Use Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
You should not take Actipraz 40 mg Tablet if you:
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet contains an active ingredient, Esomeprazole, which is used in the treatment of Gastroesophageal reflux disease (Acid reflux) & Peptic ulcer disease. This medicine is available in different substitutes & strengths & has got to be purchased or given on doctor's prescription only. You must consult your physician for adjustment of dosage & time of the medicine because age and severity of the disease differ from person to person and it can only be best judged by your doctor.
Adults are advised to take Actipraz 40 mg Tablet at a fixed time without food as instructed by your Doctor. You must take Actipraz 40 mg Tablet regularly on time for better results.
How Much Of The Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole) to Be Used:
As Actipraz 40 mg Tablet is available in various strengths and substitutes, Patients are always advised to follow their doctor's prescriptions and instructions to take Actipraz 40 mg Tablet. You must not take the Tablet on your own & for longer period than recommended by doctor.
How To Take The Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
Take Actipraz 40 mg Tablet in the dose and duration as advised by your doctor. Swallow the Tablet as a whole. You are suggested not to chew, crush or break the Tablet. Actipraz 40 mg Tablet is to be taken empty stomach, but it is better to take it at a fixed time.
For How Long Should You Continue Using Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
You are always advised to take Actipraz 40 mg Tablet as prescribed. Do not start/stop using this medicine yourself. You must strictly follow all the directions given by your doctor. You must not take the Tablet in larger or smaller quantity or for longer period than suggested by your doctor.
What Are The Side Effects Of The Actipraz 40 Mg Tablet (Esomeprazole):
Few medicines have been reported to interact with Actipraz 40 mg Tablet. These interactions may generate some needless or adverse effects and/or cause your drug not to work properly. You must always have a conversation with your doctor if you are taking other prescription/ Supplements so that well planned medication can be given. It interacts with the following medicines:
You must report the use of Actipraz 40 mg Tablet to the doctor before undergoing for the neuroendocrine/carcinoid tumor test as this medicine may give a false positive result for this diagnostic test.
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet can worsen the conditions like:
Keep the Actipraz 40 mg Tablet out of reach and sight of the children
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet is not recommended for use in pregnant women due to the increased risk of harmful effects on the unborn baby
Actipraz 40 mg Tablet should be taken as recommended by your doctor. Do not take this prescription for longer period than suggested by the medical doctor.
Store the Actipraz 40 mg Tablet at room temperature in dark and dry place. Make sure the Tablet is intact & not damaged while purchasing or storing.
AbbVie scoops up FDA approval for Rinvoq in moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis | Pharmafile
Published on 19/08/19 at 10:26am
Specifically, it was found that 52% of MDX–naïve patients achieved a score of 20 on the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria, representing a 20% improvement in symptoms after 12 weeks compared to 28% of those receiving MTX alone. At this same point in the trial, 71% of patients inadequately responding to MTX achieved ACR20 compared to 36% of those taking placebo plus MTX.
Around 30% of Rinvoq patients achieved clinical remission at week 12 in one trial and at week 14 in another compared to 6% with placebo plus MTX and 8% with methotrexate, respectively.
"Despite the availability of multiple treatment options with varying mechanisms of action, many patients still do not achieve clinical remission or low disease activity – the primary treatment goals for rheumatoid arthritis," explained Dr Roy M Fleischmann, a Primary Investigator on one of the trials and Clinical Professor at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. "With this FDA approval, Rinvoq has the potential to help additional people living with RA achieve remission who have not yet reached this goal."
The manufacturer plans to launch the therapy in the US in late August 2019, when it will be available for $59,000.
US6704866B1 - Compression and encryption protocol for controlling data flow in a network - Google Patents
Compression and encryption protocol for controlling data flow in a network
US6704866B1
US6704866B1 US09187097 US18709798A US6704866B1 US 6704866 B1 US6704866 B1 US 6704866B1 US 09187097 US09187097 US 09187097 US 18709798 A US18709798 A US 18709798A US 6704866 B1 US6704866 B1 US 6704866B1
Active, expires 2018-11-17
US09187097
Process for controlling frames transporting data from a transmitting Terminal (DTE 1) to at least a receiving Terminal (DTE 2) through a plurality of consecutive nodes including a start access node (NODE 1) connected to said transmitting Terminal and at least an end access node (NODE 6) connected to said receiving Terminal and intermediary nodes (NODE 2 to NODE 5), with each data frame comprising one or several protocol layers respectively associated with one or several communication protocols of controlling the frame flow at each node; such a process consisting in adding to each data frame a Data Manipulation Layer (DML) defining the parameters necessary for managing the manipulation (compression and/or encryption) of each field of the data frame located after the DML, and adding to each data frame a Control message for transporting a control protocol defining new parameters to be used by some ones nodes for managing the communication flow through the consecutive nodes.
The present invention relates generally to the data flow control in a transmission network wherein the transported data can be compressed and/or encrypted depending upon the protocol used and recognized at each node of the network and in particular a method for controlling data flow in a network using a new compression and encryption protocol.
Nowadays, the exchange of information becomes more and more important in quantity, especially with the explosion of Internet. Furthermore, it has become necessary that most of data transported over a network are secured and protected.
It is therefore required to reduce the size of data by using compression algorithms, and also to reduce or even to suppress the capability of other users in the network of looking, reading and understanding the data by using encryption algorithms. Encryption may use the benefits of the compression to reduce the capability to unlock the encryption by reducing the predictability.
Data are generally encapsulated with protocols in frames or cells. Such protocols are becoming more and more complex and they introduce overhead. Besides, they need also be protected against external penetration for security. Accordingly, it is also required to use compression and/or encryption algorithms for protocols as for other data:
compression of the protocol may be used to reduce the overhead and facilitate the understanding in order to speed up the routing/switching over the network. Encryption may be used to reduce the visibility of the protocol (type of protocol, addresses . . . ) and the risk of intrusion.
Wide Area Networks (WAN) are the best candidates for compression and encryption although it may be interesting to use also compression and encryption on Local Area Networks (LAN) because WANs are either public networks or use public links which are very expensive and not under the protection of the entity transferring data. The three following cases are examples wherein compression and encryption should be used:
1. Customer networks are more and more sharing the infrastructure through common protocol such as Frame Relay or IP (Internet) which introduce security problems (confidentiality, access).
Data encryption allows the exchange of sensitive data over public access networks including Internet. Protocol header encryption allows to suppress the visibility of transactions/communications and of origin/destination address names.
2. WAN links are the slowest and most costly elements in a network. The complexity and overhead introduced by the protocols increasing over time (Ipv4 to Ipv6, Ethernet frame size, data base remote access . . . ) degrade the usability of the network.
Data and protocol header compression improves throughput over communication lines.
3. Separate compression/encryption devices for data and headers which exist today duplicate efforts, increase latency, and introduce compatibility problems. Furthermore, there is a need on local networks because the protocol or the user are not necessarily aware that the destination is within the LAN or accessed remotely. The location where data and/or protocols are compressed or encrypted are different. Generally, a compression/encryption on data is preferably performed on end devices at application or presentation layers, before a transparent end to end data transmission is performed. On the contrary, the protocol header needs to be compressed/encrypted at each routing node in order to be correctly routed. Generally, the type of compression/encryption required for data and protocol fields are not the same. There is no need for an intermediate node to have a clear view of the data field: it is less secure and spends unnecessary computing resources.
Some compression protocols are taking data fields into account while other ones are working exclusively on protocol headers but there is no common compatible existing protocol able to support multi-field compression/encryption control.
Using upper layers (application/presentation) is the easiest way to implement compression or encryption but it means that this function is only applied to that data itself and not to the various headers with their overhead. It means that it should be done on each system interfacing the network. Generally encryption of data is done by software such as ZIP, TAR . . . for compression or ViaCrypt or other similar code for encryption but involves personal activity and time/resource on each system and does not allow to perform compression at lower level. Encryption should always be done after compression. Inasmuch as Encryption randomizes the data, compression performed after encryption is not efficient. Its a good reason to move today encryption from upper layers to lower layers and after compression anyway.
All these drawbacks are reduced with implementation at lower layers (transport/network) especially if done by hardware to reduce compression/encryption time. At lower layers, it may be possible to compress/encrypt not only data fields but also header fields of the various protocols and to do it on the right order for better efficiency. Unfortunately, there is a limited capability on existing lower layers for the compression/encryption of the protocols which are specific and handle either header or data but never both using a similar encapsulation mechanism.
In addition to the reduced amount of data transmitted on the links, there are some advantages to improve both security and routing/switching time if it is not necessary to decompress each header at each network note. Some of the additional services are:
Protecting data against reading or modification from unauthorized person.
Protecting transaction against message suppression/insertion.
Verifying originator of messages.
Accordingly, the primary object of the invention is to provide a method of implementing a global encapsulation protocol able to support multiple types and fields of compression/encryption.
Another object of the invention is to provide a compression/encryption method applying to all protocols and allowing to increase the performance of the compression rate and the transmission delay.
Another object of the invention is to provide a new protocol able to split the various fields of a data frame by data and headers and a capability for each node to be able to manipulate, that is to compress (or decompress) and/or to encrypt (or decrypt) selected fields of the data frame.
Accordingly, the invention relates to a process for controlling frames transporting data from a transmitting Terminal to at least a receiving Terminal through a plurality of consecutive nodes including a start access node connected to the transmitting Terminal and at least an end access node connected to the receiving Terminal and intermediary nodes, with each data frames comprising one or several protocol layers respectively associated with one or several communication protocols of controlling the frame flow at each node. The process consists in adding to each data frame a Data Manipulation Layer (DML) defining the parameters necessary for managing the manipulation (compression and/or encryption) of each field of the data frame located after the DML, and adding to each data frame a Control message for transporting a control protocol defining new parameters to be used by some ones of the plurality of nodes for managing the communication flow through the consecutive nodes.
According to a characteristic of the invention, each data frame can be divided into a plurality of zones corresponding to the protocol layers located after the DML in the data frame or consecutive parts of these protocol layers and to the data block or consecutive parts of the data block, wherein each zone comprises a first sub-zone containing a manipulated data header (MDH) defining the parameters of the following compressed and/or encrypted data, and a second sub-zone containing data (MD) which have been compressed and/or encrypted according to the parameters defined in the first sub-zone.
According to another characteristic of the invention, the parameters defined in the Control message enable to determine the function assigned to each node, so that the node may have the function of:—Access Node interfacing directly the transmitting or receiving Terminal, such an Access Node generating the DML if it connected to the transmitting Terminal and removing the DML if it is connected to the receiving Terminal,
Protocol Node for the nodes which may only have access to some manipulated headers but have no access to the data, and
Network node for the nodes which have no access to headers or data the Frame supervisor.
The invention relates also to a Data Manipulation Layer (DML) added to a data frame transmitted from a transmitting Terminal to at least a receiving Terminal through a plurality of consecutive of at least a data transmission network (WAN) with the data frame comprising one or several protocol layers respectively associated with one or several communication protocols for controlling the frame flow at each node, and comprising a Frame supervisor defining the protocol to be used with the data included in the data frame, the flow identification (Flow ID) and the frame sequence number, a Control message defining new parameters to be used by some ones of the plurality of consecutive nodes for managing the communication flow in the network, and a DML frame header in front of the DML defining the contents of the DML.
These and other features, objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent upon a consideration of the following detailed description of the invention when read in conjunction with the drawings in which:
FIG. 1 shows a schematic block-diagram of a transmission path from a Terminal DTE 1 to a Terminal DTE 2 over a wide area network (WAN) wherein the invention may be used.
FIG. 2 shows schematically the structure of the Data Manipulation Layer (DML) according to a preferred embodiment of the invention.
FIG. 3 shows schematically the structure of a data frame wherein protocol headers or data fields are divided into blocks for which different manipulation protocols may be used in accordance with the invention.
FIGS. 4a, 4 b, and 4 c represent the structure of the data frame wherein the DML which is not located in front of the frame may be shifted after other protocol layers.
FIG. 5 shows a schematic block-diagram of a transmission path wherein DML nodes coexist with standard routing nodes.
FIG. 6 shows a schematic block-diagram of a multipoint transmission configuration wherein a DML node can be an Access node or a Protocol node depending upon the destination of the path.
In a general way, the invention can be implemented in a wide area network (WAN) as illustrated in FIG. 1 for the transport of data frames between a transmitting Terminal (DTE 1) and a receiving Terminal (DTE 2), but could be also implemented in a local area network (LAN) or a large network composed of WANs and LANs. As shown in FIG. 1, DTE 1 transmits clear data to the first node accessing the network which transforms the clear data into compressed and/or encrypted data between NODE 1 and NODE 6. Reciprocally, the into compressed and/or encrypted data is transformed into clear data between NODE 6 and the receiving Terminal DTE 2.
The invention consists in adding a protocol layer in front of the existing protocols if supported by the network nodes or between the existing protocols in order to pass through the nodes that are not aware of the added protocol in order to coexist with the already installed protocols. Thus, it is possible to add the new protocol layer between the ATM protocol and the IP protocol or between the IP protocol and the TCP protocol or other upper layer protocols. In order to inform the upper layers of the presence of this new protocol, a mechanism such as a dedicated network layer protocol identifier is recommended.
The purpose of the added protocol is to define each field of the frame or cell, data as well as header, as being manipulated (compressed or encrypted or both). Thus, several compression and encryption protocols may be defined field by field. In the following description, the layer containing such a new protocol will be defined as the Data Manipulation Layer (DML).
The DML determines two main functions: a control protocol which defines the function of each node involved in a communication between a transmitting DTE and a receiving DTE, a DML protocol for encapsulating the data and providing pointers to all fields of the layer.
Data Manipulation Layer (DML) Protocol
The DML protocol is defined by several fields in the DML which are illustrated in FIG. 2. As pointers to each field are provided, each one may be handled separately. This allows to work separately on headers of protocols, the data block, or parts of the protocol headers or the data block.
The DML is composed of a Frame header determining the contents of the DML fields, a Frame supervisor (FS) a Control message defining the control protocol as described hereafter, a manipulated data header (MDH), a data block and a PAD necessary as words used for manipulated data (compressed and/or encrypted) are not necessarily aligned on bytes.
DML Header Format
The DML Frame header includes 3 bits ABC wherein:
A=1 when data are in manipulated mode (compressed and/or encrypted)
A=0 when data are not in manipulated mode
B=1 when there is a frame supervisor
B=0 when there is no frame supervisor
C=1 when there is a control message
C=0 when there is no control message
* 5 bits XXXXX indicating the number of bytes in the control message.
* P is the parity bit of the frame header.
Note that this way of formatting avoids from having 0 bits in fields dedicated to the Frame supervisor or to the Control message when they do not exist in the DML. However, another way would be to have always a Frame supervisor or a Control message even if they contain no significant bits.
Hereunder are the 8 cases corresponding to the different values of the ABC bits:
Data are not manipulated, and there are no Frame supervisor and no Control message. It is the way to handle transparent data which are neither compressed nor encrypted but which are using the same logical channel as manipulated data.
Data are not manipulated, and there is no Frame supervisor. There is a Control message the length of which is given by the 5 bits XXXXX. Such a Control message generated without a Frame supervisor indicates a global message that concerns all protocols involved. It can be used to define the size and contents of each Frame supervisor that may be used. It can be also used for the global setup of nodes involved in the transmission process.
Data are not manipulated, there is no Control Message and there is a Frame supervisor. As explained in detail hereafter, the Frame supervisor defines the protocol of the data included in the frame, indicates the flow identification and the sequence number identifying the sequence of the frame within this flow identification.
Data are not manipulated. There are both a Frame supervisor and a Control message. The length of the Control message is given by the 5 bits XXXXX. Such a Control message generated with a Frame supervisor indicates a message which relates only to the protocol defined in the Frame supervisor. Additionally, the Control message may concern only the flow identification defined in the Frame supervisor.
Data are compressed and/or encrypted. But there are no Frame supervisor and no Control message. Such a case corresponds to a data transmission between two Terminals which have defined a single protocol to be used in the transmission.
Data are compressed and/or encrypted. There is no Frame supervisor, but there is a Control message. Such a case is similar to the preceding one, except that a Control message is used to setup or to control the operation of the transmission nodes.
Data are compressed and/or encrypted. There is a Frame supervisor, but no Control message. After the frame supervisor, is included a manipulated data header (MDH) as illustrated in FIG. 2, which defines the characteristics of the compressed and/or encrypted data which follow the MDH field in the frame.
Data are compressed and/or encrypted, and there are both a Frame supervisor and a Control message.
Frame Supervisor Format
As illustrated in FIG. 2, the Frame supervisor includes:
a Protocol field (8 bits) defining up to 246 protocols such as Ipv4, Ipv6, X.25, HDLC, Frame Relay, PPP or sub-protocols, or protocols over other protocols.
a Flow ID field (8 to 24 bits) identifying the transmission flow to which belongs the frame. It is used in addition to the protocol in order to simplify the routing/switching on those nodes that may not access to the protocol header.
a Sequence number field (4 to 8 bits) which is used to perform transmission error tracking or to synchronize aggregate flows using different paths in the network.
a Status field (4 to 16 bits) which is used for error management such a ½ window reached, ¼ error in sequence number etc.
Note that other optional additional fields could be included in the Frame supervisor such as lifetime, segmentation or checksum fields.
Manipulated Data Header Format (MDH)
As illustrated in FIG. 2, the manipulated data header contains the following fields:
a Compression field (3 bits) defining up to 8 compression modes which could be supported simultaneously on one Flow ID. The Compression type may be V.24bis, LZS . . .
an Encryption field (3 bits) defining up to 8 encryption modes which could be supported simultaneously on one Flow ID. The encryption type may be RSA, PGP, DES, IDEA, RC4 . . .
a Command field (2 to 8 bits) defining simple commands (ACK, RESET, Intermediate Init) or commands with additional fields (CRC check, dictionary update . . . )
a Data length field (6 or 14 bits) composed of one bit defining a short data length field (5 bits for 32 bytes) or a long data length field (13 for 8 Kbytes) followed by 5 or 13 bits.
Note that each field of the frame (header or data) can be divided into several fields controlled by different protocols defining whether and how the corresponding field is compressed and/or encrypted. In such a case, there are several manipulated blocks in the frame as illustrated in FIG. 3, each block including a manipulated data header (MDH), a manipulated data (MD) and a PAD. Thus, in FIG. 3, there are two blocks. However, the number of blocks within a frame is not limited as they are chained together (for example, MDH 1 points to MDH 2).
Note that a block could be used to compress and/or encrypt the protocol header whereas the data could be compressed and/or encrypted separately.
Data Manipulation Layer (DML) Building
The DML which is generated by the first network node (Access node) being directly connected to the transmitting Terminal, can be considered in several situations:
setup and initialization of the Network. Used when information are requested and answered generally by using the control protocol. In this step and especially at global level, the use of the additional fields is limited (MDH, MD) as they are not completely defined and checked. Only default settings may be used at that time.
Once a protocol is defined and default links are established, further fields of the DML may fully be used under this protocol allowing data transfer protected and encrypted if necessary between end devices (DTEs) or between nodes themselves by using control messages within a protocol.
The number of MDH/MD blocks depends really on the incoming data structure, the type of protocol and the type of routing/switching function to perform in the path. Additionally if, for example, firewalls are implemented within the network which will look at upper layer protocol fields such as TCP, HTTP, FTP . . . there is a need to put these headers in dedicated MDH/MD blocks in order to isolate them one side from the data and on the other side from lower layer protocols such as IP which will be used by intermediate protocol nodes that do not need to look at TCP or similar level of protocol.
Furthermore, there is an interest to offer the capability within one frame to split the data in several data fields insofar as a single data frame may handle different kind of data: data, voice, video. Each one does not support the same kind of manipulation which leads to use corresponding manipulation mechanisms. In addition, it may be found that some part of the data is already compressed or encrypted which prevents to use efficiently any kind of manipulation on this part of data. Putting this part of data in specific MDH/MD block without manipulation while the remaining part is still compressed and/or encrypted improves significantly the performance of the global manipulation.
The control protocol is transported between nodes in control messages. It is used to setup these nodes along the network, to check for error, proceed to recovery and reset the nodes.
The control protocol works at three different levels:
1. The global level, either logical or physical, which may include several connections using different protocols:
At global level, the following elements may be exchanged
Public Key exchange with certification in order to enable protected information exchange between the nodes.
Frame supervisor definition, contents and size of the fields.
Data Manipulation protocols such as encryption protocols and compression protocols with their characteristics. This needs an exchange of information starting by a request from the Access node which has to know the capability of all the nodes in a network. Note that the intermediate nodes do not need to perform this kind of requests as they are not establishing connection. They will just answer to Access node requests.
Secret encryption keys. These keys as the other information transported through the control protocol, may be themselves encrypted using a public key method such as RSA. These secret keys allows a better encryption method for large data transfers; they offer better performance than Public/private key methods. But to transmit these keys, the preferred solution is to exchange the public keys between the nodes in a first time. Then a node sends the secret key encrypted by the public key given by the destination. The receiving node can decrypt by using its private key corresponding to the public key at the disposal of the sending node. Authentication is also used as a common way to check that the provider of the key is the regular one. Either an authentication code is set (built in) in all the nodes in the network or each public key is put in a common server that will provide public keys to each requesting node.
2. The protocol level which may include several features
At this level are defined the network protocols such as TCP, IP, Frame Relay, OSPF, RIP, SNMP, ATM, X.25 . . . that are supported in the network by all the nodes or a limited number of nodes.
The characteristics of each of the network protocols are defined so as to include the capability for each node to route or switch the protocol.
Default Flow ID are assigned such as connection-less IDs, management Ids.
The security to apply by default to each protocol.
The characteristics of various data compression protocols including their initialization: for example exchange of the starting compression tables/dictionaries if not empty.
The number of Flow IDs supported by the protocol which leads to the length of the ID-Flow field.
In the preferred embodiment of the invention, all the parameters set at global and protocol levels are put in a multi-protocol table which includes the following fields:
Node names, type.
Node addresses by protocol.
Capability of the node for data manipulation: list of algorithm/protocols supported with pointer to their specific tables/keys.
Routing and switching facilities by protocol.
3. The connection level identified by a flow ID
The characteristics of each connection is then defined, connection by connection, when there is a need or a request to start one connection. A connection is always started by an Access Node.
To manage all the connections and associated Flow-IDs (at least one Flow-ID by connection) an additional Flow-ID table is implemented at node or port level, by protocol in order to manage the connections. The characteristics of each connection including the parameters related to its Quality of Service, max path length, security . . . are incorporated in this table. When the call is completed, Flow-IDs are released and can be reused. An empty field list is therefore maintained.
A similar table can be used on intermediate nodes where Flow-IDs may have to be swapped from one port to another. In order to achieve that, an additional field is added on the above table giving the next Flow-ID to use and the destination port. Flow-ID swapping is used to reduce the number and size of IDS by link/port. Flow-ID swapping initialization and change is performed using the control protocol at connection level.
As illustrated in FIG. 1, the data transmission between a transmitting Terminal and a receiving Terminal using the principles of the invention can involve a plurality of nodes. These DML nodes may have different functions which divide them into three types: Access, Protocol or Network nodes
1. Access Nodes:
These nodes interface directly the Terminal. They may be also integrated within the Terminal. They get and send clear data on one side from various protocols and generate on the other side the proposed protocol having multiple fields compressed and/or encrypted. They can code and decode data and header compression/encryption on the protocols they control. Node 1 and 6 are example of Access nodes.
An Access node is the only node where the DML is generated. It establishes connection through the network up to the final Access node destination which will remove the DML layer.
An access node needs to have a full view of the network to find the most appropriate route. It builds the route table and updates the various nodes in the network through the control protocol to perform the defined forwarding function (routing, switching at the appropriate level) on each node.
2. Protocols Nodes
These nodes can only decode some of the header compression/encryption but have no access to the data. They can interface Access or Network nodes or standard equipment/networks to reuse standard protocol encapsulation but the data will remain protected until a node having Access node functions (data decompression/deencryption) is reached. Nodes 2 and 5 are example of Protocol nodes
A Protocol node is able to understand a DML frame on its receive side and can access to some or all the headers which means that it can understand and decode the Manipulated Data Header (MDH) and decrypt and/or decompress the associated data which is in fact a network protocol header such as Frame-Relay or IP or IP+TCP . . .
On the other side (transmit side), a protocol node can perform the reverse function after having routed or switched the frame at the appropriate level. A DML is rebuilt using the same structure with updating if necessary of the various headers including the data contents of the header and its associated MDH.
3. Network Nodes
These backbone nodes have access neither to the protocol header nor to the data. They have to route or switch at the Flow-ID level. They manage virtual circuits knowing their routing characteristics up to the next Protocol node but have no idea of the final destination and cannot view the data. Nodes 3 and 4 are example of Network nodes.
A Network node may only switch or route using the Frame supervisor fields which means that it should refer to the ID to check within its local routing table to which port it should forward the frame and on which flow-ID (if this one is changed).
The type of node (Access, Protocol or Network) is a definition which applies either to the full device or to a port or list of ports, or to a protocol or list of protocols, or Flow-IDs. This means that a device may be simultaneously
Access node for some links, Protocol node for other and Network node only for the remaining links which have not been assigned to higher privilege.
It is possible to find Protocol nodes inside a cloud of Network nodes, and Access nodes inside a cloud of Protocol nodes. The next node in a path is not necessarily a node of the same level or a node of the level just above or under its level. Any combination is possible. An Access node includes all rights and privileges of Protocol and Network nodes while a Protocol node includes the rights and privileges of a Network node.
Coexistence of DML Nodes with Standard Routing Nodes
There is no problem to implement the principles of the invention defining the DML nodes as explained above, within a network wherein there are standard routing nodes. For example, it can be assumed that a DML has to be set up just after a link protocol PPP as illustrated in FIG. 4a. In such a case, all the upper layers including IP header, TCP header and data themselves can be compressed and/or encrypted.
This above case can be illustrated by FIG. 5. As NODE 1 which is a standard routing node, is not able to understand the DML protocol, there is a need that a protocol (PPP) which can be routed over the network, be located in front of the frame. This applies also between NODE 2 which is a standard routing node and NODE C, and of course, between NODE 1 and NODE 2.
A way to solve the interconnection with standard routing nodes in the case of FIG. 5 is to shift the DML to the right while the IP header is used without being manipulated as illustrated in FIG. 4b. But this solution has the drawback to increase the number of bytes to be used when it is necessary to decompress the IP header and generally also to decrypt the IP header. Note that the IP header has to set as next layer field a value that NODE C can detect to start the DML processing.
A better approach would be to use the frame structure illustrated in FIG. 4c, where the IP header not manipulated has NODE B as source address and NODE C as destination address. This will result in an encapsulation pipe shared by several users to pass through NODE 1 and NODE 2. It looks like a tunneling function which will protect the identification of real source and destination and avoid network penetration by not authorized people.
FIG. 6 shows an example of multipoint configuration wherein one of the destination is a standard routing node (NODE 2). The transmission path from DTE 1 to NODE D is similar to the above case in reference to FIG. 5. At NODE D, the DML may be used to forward data either to NODE E and DTE 2 or to NODE 2 and DTE 3. In the latter path, NODE D must be able to decompress and/or decrypt all layers including or not the data (depending on the capability of NODE 2); therefore, NODE D will be both an Access node for DTE 3 even though it is not directly connected thereto and a Protocol node for DTE 2.
1. Process for controlling frames transporting data from a transmitting Terminal (DTE 1) to at least a receiving Terminal (DTE 2) through a plurality of consecutive nodes including a start access node (NODE 1) connected to said transmitting Terminal, at least an end access node (NODE 6) connected to said receiving Terminal and optional intermediary nodes (NODE 2 to NODE 5), with each data frame comprising one or more protocol layers respectively associated with one or more communication protocols for controlling the frame flow at each node;
a) adding to each data frame a Data Manipulation Layer (DML) defining the parameters necessary for managing the manipulation (compression and/or encryption) of a plurality of fields of said data frame, the DML providing each of said plurality of fields a manipulated data header (MDH), each MDH associated with a field and defining a manipulation mode for said associated field, such that each of said plurality of fields may be manipulated separately; and
b) adding to each data frame a Control message for transporting a control protocol defining new parameters to be used by some ones of said plurality of nodes for managing the communication flow through said plurality of consecutive nodes.
including said Control message as a field of said Data Manipulation Layer (DML).
3. Process according to claim 1 further comprising:
including in said Data Manipulation Layer (DML) a DML frame header defining the contents of said DML after said DML frame header.
including in said DML frame header a field defining the length of said Control message.
5. Process according to claim 3, further comprising:
including in said DML frame header a bit indicating whether said DML includes a Control message.
6. Process according to claim 2, further comprising:
including in said DML frame header a bit indicating whether the contents of said data frame following said DML header are compressed and/or encrypted.
including in said DML
a Frame supervisor defining the protocol used with the data included in said data frame,
a flow identification (Flow ID), and
a frame sequence number.
8. Process according to claim 7, further comprising:
assigning, by said Control message, functions to each of said plurality of nodes, so that said nodes may have the function of:
Access Node interfacing directly with said transmitting or receiving Terminal, said Access Node generating said DML if it is connected to said transmitting Terminal and removing said DML if it is connected to said receiving Terminal,
Protocol Node for those nodes which may only have access to some manipulated headers but have no access to the data, and
Network node for those nodes which have no access to headers or data but have to route said data frame in the network by using said Flow ID included in said Frame supervisor.
9. Data Manipulation Layer (DML) according to claim 8, wherein said DML frame header further comprises:
a field defining the length of said Control message.
10. Data Manipulation Layer (DML) according to claim 8, wherein said DML frame header contains a bit determining whether the contents of said data frame following said DML are compressed and/or encrypted.
11. A computer readable media, comprising:
said computer readable media having instructions for execution in a computer written thereon for the practice of the process of claim 1.
12. Electromagnetic signals propagating on a computer network, comprising:
said electromagnetic signals containing information having instructions for execution on a computer for the practice of the process of claim 1.
13. A Data Manipulation Layer (DML) added to a data frame transmitted from a transmitting Terminal (DTE 1) to at least a receiving Terminal (DTE 6) through a plurality of consecutive nodes (NODE 2 to NODE 5) of at least a data transmission network (WAN) with said data frame comprising one or more protocol layers respectively associated with one or more communication protocols for controlling the frame flow at each of said nodes;
said DML comprising:
a Frame supervisor defining the protocol to be used with the data included in said data frame, and assigning a flow identification number (Flow ID) and a frame sequence number;
a Control message defining new parameters to be used by some ones of said plurality of consecutive nodes for managing the communication flow in said network;
a DML frame header indicating the presence of a plurality of manipulated (compressed and/or encrypted) data fields in said data frame; and
a plurality of manipulated data headers (MDHs), each MDH associated with a manipulated data field of said plurality of manipulated fields and defining a manipulation mode for said field, such that each of said plurality of manipulated fields may be manipulated separately.
14. A method for controlling frames transporting data from a transmitting terminal (DTE 1) to a receiving terminal (DTE 2), comprising:
adding to each data frame a data manipulation layer (DML) defining the parameters necessary for managing the manipulation (compression and/or encryption) of a plurality of fields of said data frame, the DML providing each of said plurality of fields a manipulated data header (MDH), each MDH associated with a field and defining a manipulation mode for said associated field, such that each of said plurality of fields may be manipulated separately; and,
adding to each data frame a control message for transporting a control protocol defining new parameters to be used by an intermediate node for managing the communication flow from DTE 1 to DTE 2.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein said managing the manipulation of each field further comprises:
encrypting at least one field of said frame.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein said managing the manipulation of each field further comprises:
compressing at least one field of said frame.
defining manipulation of a protocol header.
defining manipulation of data following a protocol header.
including in said DML a field defining a length of said control message.
including in said DML a bit determining whether said DML includes a control message.
including in said DML a bit determining whether a portion of said data frame following said DML is compressed.
including in said DML a bit determining whether a portion of said data frame following said DML is encrypted.
including in said DML a bit determining whether a portion of said data frame following said DML is compressed and encrypted.
including in said DML a Frame Supervisor, said Frame Supervisor defining the protocol to be used with the data included in said data frame, a flow identifier (Flow ID) and a frame sequence number.
defining said parameters in said control message to enable intermediate nodes between DTE 1 and DTE 2 to respond to said DML and control message with the function of;
Access Node interfacing directly with said transmitting terminal, said Access Node generating said DML if it is connected to said transmitting terminal and removing said DML if it is connected to said receiving terminal,
Network Node for those nodes which have no access to headers or data but have to route said data frame in the network by using a Flow ID included in a Frame Supervisor.
transporting said frame by use of a flow identifier (Flow ID);
identifying a protocol header in said frame by a multi-bit field, and manipulating said protocol header to be compressed and/or encrypted.
identifying an encryption mode with a multi-bit field to identify one of a plurality of encryption types for encrypting a field of said frame.
28. A method of transferring a data frame from a transmitting data terminal to a receiving data terminal, said data frame including a plurality of fields, comprising:
launching said data frame by said transmitting data terminal to a first access node using a standard protocol;
receiving said data frame by said first access node;
manipulating selected fields of said plurality of fields to compress and/or encrypt clear data in said selected fields, each field compressed or encrypted according to one of a plurality of compression and/or encryption modes;
providing each frame with a data manipulation layer (DML) at said first access node, said DML providing each of said plurality of selected fields a manipulated data header (MDH), each MDH associated with a field and describing said compression and/or encryption mode used for said associated field;
transferring, in response to said Flow ID, said frame to a second access node;
receiving said frame by said second access node;
manipulating said frame in response to said DML, said second access node decrypting and/or decompressing said selected manipulated fields to reproduce said clear data and to create a reproduced frame; and
sending said reproduced frame by said second access node to said receiving data terminal.
selecting one or more of said selected fields as data fields of said frame.
selecting one or more of said selected fields as protocol header fields of said frame.
receiving, in response to said flow ID, said frame by an intermediate node;
obtaining access, in response to said DML, by said intermediate node to a selected field of said frame.
32. An Access Node, comprising:
means for receiving a data frame having clear data, from a first terminal, said data frame including a plurality of fields, each field containing clear data, said data frame addressed to a second terminal;
means for manipulating selected fields of said plurality of fields in said data frame to compress and/or encrypt said clear data in said selected fields, each field compressed and/or encrypted according to one of a plurality of compression and/or encryption modes;
means for adding to said data frame a data manipulation layer (DML), said DML providing each of said plurality of selected fields a manipulated data header (MDH), each MDH associated with a field and describing said compression and/or encryption mode used for said associated field;
means for adding to each data frame a control message for transporting a control protocol defining new parameters to be used by an intermediate node for managing the communication flow from the first to the second terminals;
means for sending through a computer network said frame having manipulated data.
33. An access node as in claim 32, further comprising:
means for receiving a data frame having a DML from said computer network, said data frame including a plurality of fields, selected fields containing manipulated data and each selected field associated with a MDH, said data frame addressed to said first terminal;
means, responsive to said DML of said data frame, for manipulating each of said manipulated fields in accordance said associated MDH to reproduce a clear data frame;
means for sending said clear data frame to said first terminal.
said computer readable media having instructions for execution in a computer for practice of the method of claim 14 or claim 28.
35. Electromagnetic signals propagating on a computer network, comprising:
said electromagnetic signals carrying information, said information having instructions for execution in a computer for practice of the method of claim 14 or claim 28.
36. A method for controlling frames transporting data from a transmitting terminal to a receiving terminal, each frame having a plurality of fields, comprising:
adding to each data frame a data manipulation layer (DML) header indicating that one or more fields of the frame located after the DML header are manipulated (compressed and/or encrypted);
adding to each of a plurality of selected fields located after the DML header a manipulated data header (MDH), each MDH associated with a field and defining a data manipulation mode for use with the associated field, such that each selected field may be manipulated separately according to a different manipulation mode; and
transmitting said data frame, said data frame having said DML header and said MDHs.
US09187097 1997-07-11 1998-11-05 Compression and encryption protocol for controlling data flow in a network Active 2018-11-17 US6704866B1 (en)
EP97480078 1997-07-11
US6704866B1 true US6704866B1 (en) 2004-03-09
ID=31725563
US09187097 Active 2018-11-17 US6704866B1 (en) 1997-07-11 1998-11-05 Compression and encryption protocol for controlling data flow in a network
US (1) US6704866B1 (en)
US20020029344A1 (en) * 2000-09-06 2002-03-07 Nec Corporation System and method for decrypting encrypted computer program
US20020087708A1 (en) * 2000-12-22 2002-07-04 Low Arthur John Method of processing serial data,serial data processor and architecture therefore
US20030046532A1 (en) * 2001-08-31 2003-03-06 Matthew Gast System and method for accelerating cryptographically secured transactions
US20050114669A1 (en) * 2003-11-26 2005-05-26 Cheng-Hung Ho Image protection system and method
US20090024763A1 (en) * 2007-07-17 2009-01-22 Microsoft Corporation Optimizing encrypted wide area network traffic
US20090080300A1 (en) * 2007-09-25 2009-03-26 Hitachi, Ltd. Data transmission method, optical disc recording method and optical disc recording apparatus
US7978699B1 (en) * 2006-11-21 2011-07-12 Picomobile Networks, Inc. Protocol compression with synchronized sequence numbers
US8134951B2 (en) 2007-06-04 2012-03-13 Cisco Technology, Inc. Framework for managing network data processing elements
US20140115320A1 (en) * 2003-08-08 2014-04-24 Into Co., Ltd. Tcp/ip-based communication system and associated methodology providing an enhanced transport layer protocol
Perlman, Radia, Interconnections: Bridges and Routers, 1992, pp. 28-38, 373, Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts.
US7631116B2 (en) 2000-12-22 2009-12-08 Mosaid Technologies Incorporated Method and system for packet encryption
US20100064116A1 (en) * 2000-12-22 2010-03-11 Mosaid Technologies Incorporated Method and system for packet encryption
US8639912B2 (en) 2000-12-22 2014-01-28 Mosaid Technologies Incorporated Method and system for packet processing
US20060064510A1 (en) * 2000-12-22 2006-03-23 Low Arthur J Method and system for packet encryption
US7283526B2 (en) * 2001-07-19 2007-10-16 International Business Machines Corporation Method and system for providing a symmetric key for more efficient session identification
US9749449B2 (en) * 2003-08-08 2017-08-29 Into Co., Ltd. TCP/IP-based communication system and associated methodology providing an enhanced transport layer protocol
US20110010536A1 (en) * 2007-07-17 2011-01-13 Microsoft Corporation Optimizing encrypted wide area network traffic
Free format text: ASSIGNMENT OF ASSIGNORS INTEREST;ASSIGNORS:BENAYOUN, ALAIN;MICHEL, PATRICK;FIESCHI, JACQUES;AND OTHERS;REEL/FRAME:009674/0608;SIGNING DATES FROM 19981030 TO 19981102
The Facial Bar - Results driven skincare treatments in 30 minutes
THERE'S A NEW WAY TO FACIAL : THE FACIAL BAR – $65
It's time for a change in standard facial procedures; that change is The Facial Bar. Our 30 minute facials aren't a fluff teaser to entice longer, more expensive services – Our service to you is a targeted 30 minute services that deliver great results without breaking the bank.
We are the first and only express 'facial salon' in Hervey Bay. We provide results driven skincare treatments in 30 minutes. You can rely on us for superior professional service at a fraction of the traditional spa price. Our goal is to provide you with an unforgettable skincare in our Facial Bar.
After your treatment, move on to our gorgeous make up bar where you can replace your own make up or have it done professionally with DMK Cosmetics, perfect for post treatment skin. Have quick and easy back to work make up or for that special evening or go for a more glamorous look! All this and be back to work within the hour!
Refresh tired, dull skin with a deep polish, infusing it with much needed hydration and nutrients.
A stimulating treatment that will tantalise the senses for a quick workout that supports aged, depleted skin and skin with sluggish circulation.
Quench your skins thirst attracting 300 times its own weight in water, this fountain of youth works to keep skin at optimum hydration levels, leaving it looking plump and reducing the appearance of find lines and wrinkles.
Brighten skin and even tone affected by age and pigmentation with active ingredients clinically proven to make a visible change to the skin. For best results combine this facial with a bespoke treatment program.
LUNCH TIME PEEL WITH DMK
SINGLE TREATMENT $120 | SERIES OF 6 $600
SINGLE TREATMENT + ENZYME TREATMENT $260
Leaves the skin looking instantly radiant and luminous. It is also a great option to minimise fine-lines and wrinkles, minimise open pores and brighten the skin. The best part is that this peel addresses the symptom of the condition without any visible downtime or post treatment irritations.
by Chris and ISAIAH BENJAMIN,
Data Science Fellowship program (DSFP)
After six months of intensive and rigorous training, 30 persons have been awarded certificate as Fellows of Click-on Kaduna Data Science Fellowship program (DSFP) a programme supported by the Bills and Mellinda Gates Foundation and facilitated by the Kaduna State Bureau for Statistics and the Natview Foundation for Technology Innovation (NFTI).
Speaking on the programme, the executive director NFTI Nurudeen Maidoki said no fewer than 600 persons applied for the fellowship programme but after a series of exams and screening only 30 persons were selected and have graduated as fellows after the six months of training both in practical and
He emphasised that the foundation aims to provide innovators across the public sector and the development space with platforms for experimenting and using the power of technology to confront real-world challenges and policy issues by providing exciting ways to generate data for decision making.
Earlier, in an overview of the Data Science Fellowship programme, Kaduna State
statistician-general, Kaduna Bureau for Statistics, Dr. Salawu Saheed, said the graduation ceremony of the pioneer cohort of the Data Science Fellowship Programme was a long and a worthwhile journey for both the fellows and the state, making history and changing the narrative for learning, youth empowerment and youth involvement in governance and decision-making process.
Home Fragmentation Of Gallstones Or Surgery
Surgery 1985 May;97(5) , gallstones from 12 patients were fragmented in vitro The average fragmentation time was 20 seconds compared with 4 days when they could TIMING OF SURGERY FOR GALLSTONE PANCREATITIS TIMING OF SURGERY FOR GALLSTONE , gallstone pancreatitis is good regardless , Fragmentation of gallstones by extracorporeal shock fragmentation of gallstones or surgery,Applications: Secondary medium & fine crusher in mining, quarry, mixing and batching plant, road and building construction, highway, railway and subway, and water conservancyFRAGMENTATION AND DISSOLUTION OF GALLSTONES BY,On certain occasions considerable difficulties arise during attempts to remove gallstones from the biliary tract Calculi in the hepatic ducts found at the operation may tax the skill of a man with a wide experience in this type of work, not to speak of a general surgeon who encounters such conditions only once in aBile Duct Stones: Can you Get Gallstones without a ,Shock wave Lithotripsy involves fragmentation of gallstones present in the bile duct Breaking the stones into smaller pieces allow them to easily pass through the duct or get captured Stones which cannot pass on their own or which cannot be removed by BES are removed by lithotripsy This method has a limitation as it increases the chances of gallstones formation in futureSurgical intervention following fragmentation of ,World J Surg 13, 317-320, 1989 Wodd Journal of Surgery 9 1989 by the Soci6t6 lnternationale de Chirurgie Surgical Intervention following Fragmentation of Gallstones by ExtracorporealComparison of methods for transcatheter fragmentation of ,Summary Alternative methods have been considered for treating cholelithiasis Compared to extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL), a percutaneous endoscopic approach would be more invasive, but would offer the advantage of immediate stone removal without theGallstones Surgery Dubai | Gallbladder Surgery ,The rationale for this recommendation is that the risks of complications from the gallstones exceed the small risks of surgery If you have been diagnosed with gallstones on a scan but have never experienced any symptoms from them, or your doctor thinks symptoms you are experiencing are from another problem such as a peptic ulcer, surgery may not be indicatedGallstone Removal - procedure, recovery, test, blood, pain ,Demographics Gallstones are approximately two times more common in females than in males Overweight women in their middle years constitute the vast majority of patients with gallstones in every racial or ethnic groupThe effect of volume and number on fragmentation of ,Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, Illinois 60611 Several factors may affect the fragmentation of gallstones by lithotripsy We hypothesized that stone volume is an important determinant of degree of fragmentation, while number ofGallstones Surgery - perthsurgicalbariatricsau,Gallstones Surgery About 10% Australians have gallstones, with a much higher incidence in older people Although they are often noticed as an incidental finding when a radiological examination is being done for another reason, there are some classic symptoms that point to gallstone disease
Selection of Patients for Gallstone Lithotripsy Robert V Rege, MD, Albert A Nemcek, MD, David L Nahrwold, MD, Chicago, Illinois Although alternatives to cholecystectomy are now available to treat patients with gallstones, the pri- mary treatment of gallstone disease remains surgi- calGallstones - Laparoscopic Surgery London | Bariatric Surgery,The rationale for this recommendation is that the risks of complications from the gallstones exceed the small risks of surgery If you have been diagnosed with gallstones on a scan but have never experienced any symptoms from them, or your doctor thinks symptoms you are experiencing are from another problem such as a peptic ulcer, surgery may not be indicatedCopper vapor laser fragmentation of gallstones: In vitro ,Laser fragmentation is a promising new modality in management of retained CBD stones Recent reports demonstrate the feasibility of lasers for this, but few studies have evaluated their safety (eg, thermal injury may occur at 43°C)Wavelength dependence of laser fragmentation of gallstones,Wavelength Dependence of Laser Fragmentation of Gallstones 429 Photodiode (mm Quartz fibre R ~'] Water Filler ^ ,Jr----II~l AcousticEffect of CT density on fragmentation of gallstones by ,Effect of CT density on fragmentation of gallstones by lithotripsy Surgical Forum , 40 , 127-129 Effect of CT density on fragmentation of gallstones by lithotripsyAn Evaluation of Solutions for Fragmentation and ,An Evaluation of Solutions for Fragmentation and Dissolution of Gallstones and Their Effect on Liver and Ductal Tissue * R Russell Best , John A Rasmussen , and Carlyle E Wilson * Read before the American Surgical Association, Los Angeles, California, April 3, 1953Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones: 20th ,ESWL plus bile acid therapy for gallstones has been found to be marginally cost-effective compared with open cholecystectomy Cost-effectiveness increased in the elderly patient, but was lower with multiple than with single stones [ 12,13 ]Fragmentation of gallstones using extracorporeal shock ,We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor advertisingBiliary Lithotripsy : Determination of Stone Fragmentation ,• Application of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy to gallbladder stones was studied in 37 adult female swine Twenty-two sows underwent cholecystostomy with implantation of human gallstonesLaser fragmentation of stones - Manchester Urology,Ureteroscopic laser fragmentation of kidney stone What is Ureteroscopy? Rigid Ureteroscopy (RURS) is a treatment option for stones in the ureter and Flexible ureterorenoscopy is a treatment option for kidney stonesIt is performed under general anaesthesia
Fragmentation of Biliary Calculi in 71 Patients by Use of
Results EHL lithotripsy was effective in fragmenting all biliary stones in 69 of the 71 patients (97%) All of the stone fragments were removed in 67 of these 69 patients (94%)Gallstones – Types, Causes, Symptoms, Prevention ,What are Gallstones? A gallstone is a small pebble that develops in the gallbladder often as a result of sediment from the bile The medical term for a gallstone is a cholelith and the process of gallstone formation and the presence of gallstones in the gallbladder is known as cholelithiasis Surgery of gallstones,The doctor may recommend surgery to remove the gallbladder if you have gallstones or your gallbladder is not functioning normally (biliary dyskinesia) You may have some or all of these symptoms: Pain after eating, usually in the upper right or middle abdomen (epigastric pain)Treatment of Gallstone Disease | Clinical Gate,The mainstay of current nonsurgical treatment of gallstone disease is oral dissolution with ursodeoxycholic acid, with or without extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy Although nonsurgical treatment of gallstones has proved effective in carefully selected patients, only a limited number of patients are candidates for this treatment optionGallstones: fragmentation with a tunable dye laser and ,All five laser-treated, noncalcified gallstones dissolved completely, compared with four of five intact stones All six laser-treated, calcified gallstones dissolved completely, compared with only one of six intact stones The solitary calcified common bile duct stone, whether fragmented or intact, did not completely dissolve Speed of dissolutionGallstone fragmentation with contact electrohydraulic ,To identify physical and technical factors that have an effect on fragmentation, the authors performed in vitro contact electrohydraulic lithotripsy (EHL) on gallstones 10 mm or larger in size Of 122 gallstones, 113 (93%) could be fragmented with 1-46 pulses from a 3-F electrode (average, 10 pulsesLaser lithotripsy of difficult bile duct stones: results ,Percutaneous transhepatic lithotripsy of gallstones is however reserved for cases with an anatomically difficult or impossible endoscopic access or with inadequate fragmentation via the endoscopic-retrograde route Furthermore, both percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy and endoscopic retrograde mother and babyscopy always mean an increased effort concerning equipment,Therapy of gallstone disease: What it was, what it is ,Other groups in which prophylactic cholecystectomy must be considered are the morbidly obese undergoing bariatric surgery, patients at high risk for gallbladder cancer, patients with sickle cell anemia, and coexistence of small gallstones and gallbladder dysmotility[47,62-68] A totally different approach is necessary in the case of complicated biliary colic, as also shown in Table 4Cholelithiasis - MSD Manual Professional Edition,Stone fragmentation (extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy) to assist stone dissolution and clearance is now unavailable Key Points In developed countries, about 10% of adults and 20% of people > 65 yr have gallstones, but 80% are asymptomaticGallstones treatment | healthdirect,Gallbladder removal surgery (cholecystectomy) is the most common treatment to cure gallstones It does not affect your ability to digest food It does not affect your ability to digest food The most common type of surgery is keyhole or laparoscopic cholecystectomy
high pressure grinding rolls mining small scale gemstone mining equipment chromite ore mining in india reciprocating vibro screen crusher dust gravel upgradation of bauxite ore coal crusher hammer manufacturers in india jaw coal crushercoal crushing Arrangement Made For A Crushing Plant Ppt bauxite ore processing price from china
Why Hair Loss Chemotherapy - health problems 101
Why Hair Loss Chemotherapy
You may have such questions as How Does Chemotherapy Work and Why Does Chemotherapy Cause Hair Loss,or you may also seek several helpful information about How Chemotherapy Causes Hair Loss. Besides,you may be interested in answers related to Side Effects of Chemotherapy,too. Read more as following:
Cancer cells divide at a high mitotic rate much more than most of the cells in our body. Chemotherapy drugs work by targeting these rapidly dividing cells. Some cells in our bodies rapidly divinde like the hair follicle cells . This causes one to lose hair while undergoing chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy works by stopping the growth of cancer cells. Cancer cells grow and divide very quickly and can harm healthy cell. Chemotherapy does have side effects.... More »
Chemotherapy is used by cancer patients to treat cancer. This process destroys fast growing cells, and hair follicles are a fast growing cell, so often time, it will cause your hair to fall out. Don't worry, the hair will grow back after the treatmen... More »
How chemotherapy causes hair loss?
Chemotherapy does not focus simply on cancer cells alone. Instead, it focuses on cells that grow rapidly in the body. These are the cells that chemotherapy destroys given enough time and potency. Unfortunately, hair follicles fall under the category... More »
What are the treatments for chemotherapy hair loss?
Hair loss typically will be noticed within 14 days of starting chemotherapy. Specific chemotherapy treatments will determine the amount of hair that will fall out as well as how quickly that will occur. Hair loss will continue throughout chemotherapy... More »
How to deal with chemotherapy hair loss?
1. Visit your hairstylist. She may suggest a shorter haircut, as shorter hair has more body (although if you want a wig made from your natural hair, keep it long. See Step 2). If you get a haircut, save a lock of hair for a color reference. 2. Buy a... More »
The U. S. Department of Defense recruited pharmacologists Louis S. Goodman and Alfred Gilman to investigate mustard gas to treat cancer. The results of their research studies were successful. Sidney Faber, a Harvard pathologist, did further studies a... More »
Tags:After Effects of Chemotherapy,Cancer Chemotherapy,Chemotherapy Drugs,Damaging Side Effects of Chemotherapy,Different Types of Chemotherapy,List of Chemotherapy Drugs,Long Term Side Effects of Chemotherapy,Side Effects Cumulative for Chemotherapy,Side Effects of Chemotherapy,Types of Chemotherapy
Category:Hair | Comments:8 comments |
Pre post:How does the Duckbill Platypus Inject Its Venom
Next Post:Where can I Learn About the Respiratory System
How Many Lives has Chemotherapy Saved
How does Chemotherapy Drugs Work
Where can I Watch Korean Music Videos
How to Braid Corn Rolls
How can I Remove Hair Dye from Skin
How to Get Rid of Hair Buildup
How do I Know What Vitamins I Need
Who Makes Wigs
Imanibee Reply:
Please recommend a hair loss product that has good consumer reputation.
Rain Reply:
I thought it was because of the wax hair product i was using so i stopped but after a couple of months i notice that i'm still losing hair. I'm only 20 years old and no one in my family has hair loss problem.
No, I don't need specific info on THAT topic.
After the research paper is written we will have to create an experiment based on that criteria.
Could anyone give me any ideas based on that topic of what to do for an experiment?
I love places such as http://www.4women.com/ and http://www.headcovers.com/ but they only allow you to order online. Are there any stores in Toronto for women with hair loss from alopecia, chemotherapy, and other medical reasons, where someone could actually try these things on before buying them?
Jasper Reply:
Will something cold compressed against the scalp prevent hair loss?
I watched a documentary about a lady called that died from Cancer but she still had hair because she didn't want any treatment but Jade had chemotherapy and now her hair is all gone..
So is it the cancer or the chemo that causes the hair loss?
I have heard that there is some lotion that can be rubbed on to the hair during chemo to stop hair loss. Apparently it costs thousands of pounds. Does anyone have any idea what it is and where I can purchase it? Many thanks.
My mummy is suffering from breast cancer and due to chemotherapy she is facing hair loss so how to naturally protect hair loss
Mole rats may unravel the secret to long life - Thaindian News
Mole rats may unravel the secret to long life
February 24th, 2009 - 12:59 pm ICT by ANI Tweet
London, Feb 24 (ANI): Naked mole rats live for nearly 30 years longer than any other rodent, and scientists reckon that these animals may hold the secret to longevity.
The oxidising compounds produced in the bodies gradually wear down DNA and proteins, hence causing ageing by destroying the cells.
But, surprisingly, naked mole rats have almost equivalent levels of oxidants to mice that live to be just three and a half years.
For the study, Rochelle Buffenstein of the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio and colleagues extracted liver tissue from both species, and treated it with chemicals that "unravel" proteins to reveal damage.
It was discovered that naked mole rats had twice as many undamaged proteins as in mice.
In fact, the rats" protein recycling machinery was found to be exceptionally active, reports New Scientist magazine.
According to the researchers, naked mole rats manufacture extra quantities of molecules that are responsible for labelling damaged proteins that need to be recycled quickly to minimise their effect on cells.
And now they are hoping to identify these molecules, and test whether they could be used to treat age-related disease in humans. (ANI)
Novel approach to treat diabetes - Jul 29, 2010
Age, not decrease in estrogen, behind osteoporosis - Mar 01, 2010
Eating berries boosts brain's 'housekeeping' functions as we age - Aug 24, 2010
Tags: active reports, ageing, compounds, half years, health science center, liver tissue, london feb, longevity, mice, molecules, naked mole rats, new scientist magazine, oxidants, proteins, rodent, texas health science, texas health science center, texas health science center in san antonio, university of texas health science center, university of texas health science center in san
Since 1994, Men’s Health Week has worked to raise awareness about preventable health issues for men and boys. The week is observed in June each year, in the days leading up to and including Father’s Day. This year, Men’s Health Week runs from June 13th through the 19th. People use all sorts of ways to raise awareness and creating Men’s Health Week wristbands are just a start.
Blue is the signature color of Men’s Health Week, so many people dress in all blue during Wear BLUE day at work during the awareness week. Given that, blue wristbands can be just the thing to help raise awareness. In fact, the bands could be solid blue, color-blocked with blue and white or gray, or even blue swirled with white or gray. Any number of messages could be imprinted on the bracelets, including ones that say “Men’s health is a family issue,” “Be healthy; get screened,” or “Stay healthy; be educated.”
According to WebMD, the top concerns men face are cardiovascular disease, lung cancer, prostate cancer, depression and suicide, and diabetes. The Centers for Disease Control estimates that over 300,000 men die each year from cardiovascular issues and nearly 87,000 men die from lung cancer. That’s why, during Men’s Health Week, men are encouraged to get screened and to get educated.
Amazing Wristbands is a leading provider of customized silicone wristbands available online, including Men’s Health Week bracelets. Our wristbands are comfortable, durable, and non-allergenic, made of 100% silicone. Many of our wristbands can be created with our easy-to-use online tool. In addition to standard wristbands, AmazingWristbands.com also offers super popular slap bands that “snap” to a person’s wrist, as well as half-inch bands, thicker one-inch bands, adjustable bands, USB bands, silicone rings and silicone key chains.
