Dynamic Contexts for Generating Suggestion Questions in RAG
Based Conversational Systems

Anuja Tayal∗
University of Illinois, Chicago
Department of Computer Science
Chicago, IL, USA
atayal4@uic.edu

Aman Tyagi
The Procter and Gamble Company
Mason, Ohio, USA
tyagi.a.3@pg.com

4
2
0
2

r
a

M
8
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
3
1
4
1
1
.
3
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

ABSTRACT
When interacting with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)-
based conversational agents, the users must carefully craft their
queries to be understood correctly. Yet, understanding the system’s
capabilities can be challenging for the users, leading to ambiguous
questions that necessitate further clarification. This work aims
to bridge the gap by developing a suggestion question generator.
To generate suggestion questions, our approach involves utilizing
dynamic context, which includes both dynamic few-shot examples
and dynamically retrieved contexts. Through experiments, we show
that the dynamic contexts approach can generate better suggestion
questions as compared to other prompting approaches.

CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies → Natural language generation.

KEYWORDS
RAG, Conversational Systems, Question Generation, Prompting,
Few-Shot

ACM Reference Format:
Anuja Tayal and Aman Tyagi. 2024. Dynamic Contexts for Generating
Suggestion Questions in RAG Based Conversational Systems. In Companion
Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024 (WWW ’24 Companion), May
13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 4 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3589335.3651905

1 INTRODUCTION
Current conversational systems encounter numerous problems.
Firstly, they depend heavily on user inputs, with the agent merely
responding to queries [1, 2]. This method is fundamentally flawed
as it fails to actively prompt users to clarify ambiguous or poorly
defined questions. As a result, the systems frequently return incor-
rect responses or resort to apologetic statements when dealing with
such inquiries. Secondly, even when the system does provide a cor-
rect answer, the user must again formulate an effective follow-up

∗work done as part of internship at the Procter and Gamble Company.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
WWW ’24 Companion, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0172-6/24/05
https://doi.org/10.1145/3589335.3651905

question. This task can be challenging, as users often find it difficult
to understand the full scope of the system’s capabilities [3]. This
cycle of inadequate responses forces users to constantly refine their
queries, often resulting in more apologies than useful information.
Through this paper, we want to address this change and fill the
gap by proposing a suggestion question generator. The generator
is designed to generate suggestion questions that the agent can
answer, guided by the user’s initial query. Our framework encom-
passes several key steps. First, it involves identifying pertinent
passages (dynamically retrieved contexts) based on the user’s ini-
tial query, as the answer to the query hinges on these passages.
Secondly, we take the help of relevant triple of (questions, answer,
suggestion questions) (dynamic few-shot). Finally, we generate
suggestion questions by constituting a dynamic context prompt
consisting of the dynamically retrieved contexts, and dynamic few-
shot examples. By providing suggestion questions, users are alle-
viated from the task of question formulation, ensuring a smooth
conversational flow [3].

Conversational agents can adapt Dynamic Contexts for a variety
of tasks, eliminating the need for extensive model training. To
generate suggestion questions in the absence of a publicly available
dataset, we use in-context learning. In-context learning [4] has
been recognized for achieving promising outcomes with minimal
training samples.

Figure 1: Dynamic Context: Suggestion Questions are gen-
erated in RAG based Chatbots using the initial user query
along with dynamically few-shot examples and dynamic re-
trieved contexts

2 PROBLEM STATEMENT
Our primary goal is to develop a suggestion question generator. We
aim to tackle cases where a RAG-based system cannot interpret a
user’s query accurately, despite the presence of relevant information
in the dataset. Due to this, the system is unable to understand

 
 
 
 
 
 
WWW ’24 Companion, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore

Anuja Tayal and Aman Tyagi

the query’s intent leading to unsuccessful responses. Hence, we
generate three suggested questions that the agent is capable of
responding based on the user’s initial query.

In Summary, in this paper, we:

• Propose to develop a suggestion question generator to ad-
dress the gap in conversational systems where users fre-
quently lack awareness of the system’s limitations.

• Formulate a suggestion question generator in low-resource
settings which can be applied across various datasets without
the need of fine-tuning.

• Propose a dynamic context prompt that constitutes dynamic
few-shot examples and dynamic retrieved contexts to gener-
ate suggestion questions.

3 RELATED WORK
To the best of our knowledge, there is no existing model or literature
specifically addressing suggestion question generation. However,
this concept is closely related to question generation [5] and clarifi-
cation question generation [3, 6].

The concept of clarification questions was formally introduced
in [7], and since then, research into generating these questions has
spanned a wide range of scenarios, including open-domain systems
(AmbigQA) [8], knowledge bases (CLAQUA) [6], closed-book sys-
tems (CLAM) [9], information-seeking (ISEEQ) [10], task-oriented
dialog systems (CLARIT) [3], and conversational search [11]. Rah-
mani et al. [12] surveyed the various methodologies, datasets, and
different evaluation strategies used for clarification questions.

The distinct characteristics of RAGs [13] make them essential
for effective information retrieval and is widely used for generating
question-answering tasks [1] and clarification questions [10, 11].

Advancements in large language models (LLMs) have led re-
searchers to investigate the use of LLMs and prompting techniques
for both question generation [5] and clarification questions [14].

4 DYNAMIC CONTEXTS APPROACH
Dynamic Contexts, the Suggestion Question Generator (Figure 1),
is designed to enhance the interaction between users and conver-
sational systems by addressing the gap in users’ understanding of
these systems’ capabilities. By aiming to reduce the frequency of
apologetic responses [3], it provides more informed system sugges-
tions, thereby improving the overall user experience.

Dynamic Contexts generate suggestion questions that are an-
swerable by the agent. This is achieved through two principal com-
ponents of Dynamic Contexts: dynamic few-shot examples and
dynamically retrieved contexts. Dynamic few-shot examples begin
with the selection of contextually relevant triplets from the dataset,
each consisting of a question, its answer, and the suggestion ques-
tion (QAS). Dynamic few-shot diverges from traditional few-shot
prompting by dynamically choosing each example based on the
user’s query, rather than relying on a static set of examples. This
dynamic selection is crucial for accommodating the varied formats
and structures that different questions may necessitate.

To ensure that the questions generated by the Suggestion Ques-
tion Generator remain pertinent and answerable, dynamic contexts
consist of dynamically retrieved contexts. Dynamically retrieved
contexts consist of retrieving 4 dynamic contexts based on the

Zero-Shot
Few-Shot
Dynamic Few-Shot
Dynamic Contexts (Our approach)

ChatGPT
35
42
42
44
Table 1: Comparative Analysis of Dynamic Contexts with
Zero-Shot, Few-Shot and Dynamic Few-Shot

Claude-2
30
35
35
44

GPT-4
43
40
43
46

initial user query, similar to RAG-based systems from which sug-
gestion questions should be generated. We use OpenAI embeddings
to embed the examples and dynamic contexts and cosine similarity
to select dynamic examples and contexts. The complete prompt
structure utilized for the approach is detailed in the appendix B.

5 EVALUATION
Due to the absence of a publicly accessible dataset specifically
designed for Suggestion Question Generator tasks, we employed
228 blog posts from Pamper’s Baby Sleep Coach as a practical
demonstration of the approach. More details of the dataset are
present in Appendix A. To test the Dynamic Contexts approach,
LLMs- ChatGPT, GPT-4, and Claude2 were used. The evaluation of
the suggestion question generator involves a variety of assessment
techniques to ensure a thorough analysis of the performance.

Manual Evaluation To assess the effectiveness of the Dynamic
Contexts approach in the Suggestion Question Generator, we con-
ducted a manual evaluation using a set of 48 QAS (question, answer,
and suggestion question) pairs. During manual assessment, we pri-
marily assessed the correctness, relevance, and soundness of the
generated questions. Dynamic Contexts demonstrated its capabil-
ity by successfully generating relevant suggestion questions (as
shown in Table 1). ChatGPT, Claude-2, and GPT-4 each produced
44, 44, and 46 correct samples, respectively. ChatGPT and GPT-4
errors were related to the baby’s age, whereas Claude-2 did not
make any age-related errors. However, Claude-2’s primary short-
comings were its failure to formulate questions that aligned with
the provided contexts.

Comparative Analysis A comparative analysis was performed
to evaluate the improvement of Dynamic Contexts over different
prompting strategies, including Zero-Shot, Few-Shot, and Dynamic
Few-Shot approaches. This comparison, detailed in Table 1, high-
lights the distinctions among the methods. The Zero-Shot method
employed no examples in its prompts, while the Few-Shot method
used a consistent set of three examples for each query. The Dynamic
Few-Shot approach, in contrast, dynamically selected its examples.
Distinct from other methods, Dynamic Contexts utilizes Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) to dynamically select contexts for
generating suggestion questions. This approach marks a significant
shift from the static contexts used in the Zero-Shot, Few-Shot, and
Dynamic Few-Shot approaches.

The findings indicate that Claude-2 generated only 30 correct
questions (compared to 35 for ChatGPT and 43 for GPT-4) in the
zero-shot approach out of the 48 samples. While we supplied the
answers, the models struggled to generate questions that could
be answered from the provided context. Claude-2 notably strug-
gled, often unable to utilize the provided context effectively, and
sometimes misconstrued its role, imagining itself as a baby.

The few-shot approach, which involved providing three exam-
ple questions to the models, showed an overall improvement in

Dynamic Contexts for Generating Suggestion Questions in RAG Based Conversational Systems

WWW ’24 Companion, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore

performance. However, the questions generated tended to replicate
the structure of the examples provided too closely. The dynamic
few-shot approach, aimed at introducing a variety of question types
and structures, significantly improved the quality of the questions
generated but still lagged behind the dynamic contexts approach.
Preference Benchmarking Further analysis was conducted
through Preference Benchmarking Evaluation, where GPT-4 and
Claude-2 evaluated the suggestion questions generated by the
framework. In this blind test, the models, GPT-4 and Claude-2 acted
as judges and were prompted to assess the quality of the questions
without knowing from which model it was generated. The results
showed Claude2 having no preference at all between the models,
while GPT-4 favored Claude-2’s output 57% of the time over its own.
Human evaluation was also employed to evaluate which output
was better which showed a preference for GPT-4’s output in 43%
of cases, Claude-2 in 33% of cases, and showing no preference in
24% of cases. This evaluation suggests a close alignment between
the judgments of LLMs and human evaluators. Detailed results can
be found in Table 3 of the appendix D.

Ablation Study To determine the optimal order of the final
prompt, we conducted an ablation study, altering the arrangement
of example contexts and queries. Initially, we presumed that pre-
senting the query before the dynamic contexts would enhance
comprehension, allowing the model to suggest questions based on
the given information. However, upon changing the order, we did
not observe any discernible difference in the nature of the generated
suggestion questions as seen from the Table 2 in Appendix C.

6 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we explore suggestion questions to bridge the gap in
users’ comprehension of a conversational system’s capabilities. We
present the development of a suggestion question generator that
utilizes dynamic context prompting within a RAG-based conversa-
tional system. In the future, we plan to personalize the suggestion
questions based on the user history.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors would like to acknowledge the support of the Procter
and Gamble Company (P&G). Any opinions, findings, and conclu-
sions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of
the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of P&G.

REFERENCES
[1]

Eunsol Choi, He He, Mohit Iyyer, Mark Yatskar, Wen-tau Yih, Yejin Choi, Percy
Liang, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2018. QuAC: question answering in context. In
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium. doi:
10.18653/v1/D18-1241.
Siva Reddy, Danqi Chen, and Christopher D. Manning. 2019. CoQA: a con-
versational question answering challenge. Transactions of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 7, 249–266. doi: 10.1162/tacl_a_00266.
Yue Feng, Hossein A Rahmani, Aldo Lipani, and Emine Yilmaz. 2023. Towards
asking clarification questions for information seeking on task-oriented dia-
logues. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13690.
Tom Brown et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems. Vol. 33. Curran Associates, Inc., 1877–
1901.

[2]

[3]

[4]

[5] Hongwei Zeng, Bifan Wei, Jun Liu, and Weiping Fu. 2023. Synthesize, prompt
and transfer: zero-shot conversational question generation with pre-trained
language model. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association

for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, Toronto, Canada, (July 2023), 8989–9010. doi: 10.18653/v1
/2023.acl-long.500.
Jingjing Xu, Yuechen Wang, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Pengcheng Yang, Qi Zeng,
Ming Zhou, and Xu Sun. 2019. Asking clarification questions in knowledge-
based question answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empir-
ical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP). Association for
Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, (Nov. 2019), 1618–1629. doi:
10.18653/v1/D19-1172.
Sudha Rao and Hal Daumé III. 2018. Learning to ask good questions: ranking
clarification questions using neural expected value of perfect information. In
Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics,
Melbourne, Australia, (July 2018), 2737–2746. doi: 10.18653/v1/P18-1255.
Sewon Min, Julian Michael, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020.
AmbigQA: answering ambiguous open-domain questions. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, (Nov. 2020), 5783–5797. doi:
10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.466.
Lorenz Kuhn, Yarin Gal, and Sebastian Farquhar. 2022. CLAM: selective clarifica-
tion for ambiguous questions with large language models. CoRR, abs/2212.07769.
arXiv: 2212.07769. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2212.07769.

[6]

[7]

[8]

[9]

[10] Manas Gaur, Kalpa Gunaratna, Vijay Srinivasan, and Hongxia Jin. 2022. ISEEQ:
information seeking question generation using dynamic meta-information
retrieval and knowledge graphs. In Thirty-Sixth AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, AAAI 2022, Thirty-Fourth Conference on Innovative Applications
of Artificial Intelligence, IAAI 2022, The Twelveth Symposium on Educational
Advances in Artificial Intelligence, EAAI 2022 Virtual Event, February 22 - March
1, 2022. AAAI Press, 10672–10680. doi: 10.1609/AAAI.V36I10.21312.
Yosi Mass, Doron Cohen, Asaf Yehudai, and David Konopnicki. 2022. Con-
versational search with mixed-initiative - asking good clarification questions
backed-up by passage retrieval. In Proceedings of the Second DialDoc Workshop
on Document-grounded Dialogue and Conversational Question Answering. Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics, Dublin, Ireland, (May 2022), 65–71. doi:
10.18653/v1/2022.dialdoc-1.7.

[11]

[13]

[12] Hossein A. Rahmani, Xi Wang, Yue Feng, Qiang Zhang, Emine Yilmaz, and
Aldo Lipani. 2023. A survey on asking clarification questions datasets in con-
versational systems. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, Toronto, Canada, (July 2023), 2698–2716. doi: 10.18653/v1
/2023.acl-long.152.
Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey
Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-
domain question answering. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). Online, 6769–6781.
Yang Deng, Wenqiang Lei, Lizi Liao, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2023. Prompting
and evaluating large language models for proactive dialogues: clarification,
target-guided, and non-collaboration. (2023). arXiv: 2305.13626 [cs.CL].
[15] Mor Geva, Ankit Gupta, and Jonathan Berant. 2020. Injecting numerical rea-
soning skills into language models. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Online, 946–958. doi: 10.18653
/v1/2020.acl-main.89.

[14]

A DATASET
Due to the absence of a publicly accessible dataset specifically de-
signed for Suggestion Question Generator tasks, we employed 228
blog posts from Pamper’s Baby Sleep Coach as a practical demon-
stration of the approach. The blog post headlines were treated as
queries, while the content of the posts as the answers to those
queries. For 35 of these posts, we manually annotated suggestion
questions aiming to exemplify the types of questions users might
ask, and which could be answered by the provided context. The
post headlines from these 35 examples form the basis for identi-
fying queries similar to the initial user query. To each of these
similar queries, we then append the corresponding answer and a
suggestion question, forming a set of dynamic few-shot examples
consisting of pairs of a similar query, its answer, and a suggestion
question (as shown in Figure 1). Meanwhile, the original set of 138
answers forms the basis for our answer contexts, from which we

WWW ’24 Companion, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore

Anuja Tayal and Aman Tyagi

GPT-4
Claude2

Human Eval
21 (11 both)
16

GPT-4
21
27

Claude2
24
24

questions. Here are some examples:

{3 dynamic QAC Dynamic Examples}

Table 3: Preference BenchMarking to evaluate the models
preference

{Query}

select the top 4 contexts. The complete prompt structure utilized
for the approach is detailed in the appendix B.

The dataset presents significant challenges, particularly in show-
casing the numerical reasoning capabilities of large language mod-
els (LLMs) [15]. When handling queries related to a baby’s specific
age (For ex- 13 weeks old, 4 months old), both ChatGPT and GPT-4
displayed confusion over the baby’s age in generated suggestion
questions. Despite the prompt clearly stating that a month consists
of 4 weeks, as detailed in Appendix B, they at times illustrated the
difficulty in grasping numerical distinction ( For example- incor-
rectly interpreted 13 weeks as 13 months).

B PROMPT FORMAT
This section illustrates the prompt given to the LLMs.

You are an intelligent conversational agent for a smart sleep coach
of baby. You are given a prompt with a query with different contexts.
Each query is one question. Convert the query into question format.
You have to suggest 3 different questions that can be very easily an-
swered by only the context provided. If the questions cannot be strictly
answered by only the context provided then it should not suggest.
Remember in a month there are 4 weeks. The age of the baby should
be the same as in the query and not be changed. Only generate the

{3 Contexts from which suggestion questions be generated which

can be answered from these contexts.}

C ABLATION STUDY

Dynamic Contexts Order Changed

GPT4
Claude2

46
44

46
44

Table 2: Ablation Study of Dynamic Context approach after
changing the order of the query and the contexts

To determine the optimal order of the final prompt, we conducted
an ablation study, altering the arrangement of example contexts
and queries to assess performance. Initially, we presumed that
presenting the query before the dynamic contexts would enhance
comprehension, allowing the model to suggest questions based on
the given information. However, upon changing the order, we did
not observe any discernible difference in the nature of the generated
suggestion questions as can be seen from the table 2.

D PREFERENCE BENCHMARKING RESULTS
Refer Table 3