4
2
0
2

g
u
A
1

]

R

I
.
s
c
[

2
v
1
2
2
7
0
.
4
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Improving Retrieval for RAG based Question
Answering Models on Financial Documents

Spurthi Setty, Harsh Thakkar, Alyssa Lee, Eden Chung, Natan Vidra

Abstract

The effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) in generating ac-
curate responses relies heavily on the quality of input provided, particu-
larly when employing Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques.
RAG enhances LLMs by sourcing the most relevant text chunk(s) to base
queries upon. Despite the significant advancements in LLMs’ response
quality in recent years, users may still encounter inaccuracies or irrelevant
answers; these issues often stem from suboptimal text chunk retrieval by
RAG rather than the inherent capabilities of LLMs. To augment the effi-
cacy of LLMs, it is crucial to refine the RAG process. This paper explores
the existing constraints of RAG pipelines and introduces methodologies
for enhancing text retrieval. It delves into strategies such as sophisticated
chunking techniques, query expansion, the incorporation of metadata an-
notations, the application of re-ranking algorithms, and the fine-tuning of
embedding algorithms. Implementing these approaches can substantially
improve the retrieval quality, thereby elevating the overall performance
and reliability of LLMs in processing and responding to queries.

1

Introduction

In recent years, the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a
critical turning point in Generative AI and its ability to expedite productivity
across a variety domains. However, the capabilities of these models, while im-
pressive, are limited in a number of ways that have hindered certain industries
from being able to take full advantage of the potential of this technology. A key
disadvantage is the tendency for LLMs to hallucinate information and its lack
of knowledge in domain specific areas. The knowledge of LLMs are limited by
their training data, and without the use of additional techniques, these models
have very poor performance of very domain specific tasks.

In order to develop a large language model, the first step is the pre-training
process where a transformer is trained on a very large corpus of text data. This
data is very general and not specific to a certain domain or field, as well as un-
changing with time. This is a reason why LLMs like ChatGPT might perform
well for general queries but fail on questions on more specific and higher-level

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
topics. Additionally, a model’s performance about a certain topic is highly de-
pendent on how often that information appears in the training data, meaning
that LLMs struggle with information that does not appear frequently. 1 This is
the case for most domain-specific information, such as financial information and
expertise, which is why standard LLMs have poor performance with domain-
specific questions.

The concept of knowledge injection refers to the ability to give the model access
to information beyond its original training data, and the main way we can
improve the performance of large language models on domain-specific tasks.
The two primary techniques of knowledge injection are additional training of
the model or fine-tuning, or in-context learning, the most popular version of
which is Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG).

1.1 Fine-tuning

Fine-tuning is the process of updating model parameters for specific tasks and
domains. Through fine-tuning one can further train a LLM on a domain-specific
dataset so that it has access to additional information not present in the original
training data. Fine-tuning also enables us to train the model to get consistent
outputs via instruction fine-tuning. The three main methods of fine-tuning are
unsupervised fine-tuning, supervised fine-tuning, and reinforcement learning. In
our previous work, we examined the method of using supervised fine-tuning to
improve several different models on finance-specific questions. Supervised fine-
tuning, particularly instruction fine-tuning is ideal to tailor a model to perform a
certain way given that it has access to labelled data with input and output pairs.
However, a primary bottleneck of this method is access to high-quality data in
order to conduct effective supervised fine-tuning. For question-answering tasks,
these datasets are usually curated with human experts, often with the aid of
other LLMs to get accurate and comprehensive question-answer pairs.

In unsupervised fine-tuning, the data is unlabeled and can be viewed as an ex-
tension of the pre-training process, but with domain-specific, instead of general
documents and text. However, the model is not given any additional instruc-
tions or labels from this data. The hope is that the model will retain the
information from this additional training data and be able to access that knowl-
edge when doing very domain-specific question-answering. While this approach
of fine-tuning can be much more scalable compared to supervised fine-tuning
because of the availability of data, the results of the fine-tuned model won’t be
as robust. Moreover, while domain-specific data is used, there is no guarantee
that the LLM will be able to access it when it is needed, especially if the size
of the domain-specific data is small when compared to the text-corpus that was
used for pre-training.

1Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, Steven Schockaert. RAGAS: Automated

Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation, 2023. arXiv:2309.15217

2

1.2 Retrieval Augmented Generation

Retrieval Augmented Generation is a method of in-context learning that allows
Large Language Models to have access to new knowledge sources and answer
questions. In context learning is a method of knowledge injection where one
improves pre-trained LLMs by chaining the input query with additional knowl-
edge. 2 It does not involve updating any of the model weights like fine-tuning,
but rather changing the query to include additional information the model can
refer to it. A benefit of this is that because the knowledge is being fed directly,
the LLM can refer to it directly and there is no concern of this knowledge
getting lost in the training data like it might be via unsupervised fine-tuning.
However, due to the limited context window of large language models, there is
only so much information that can be chained to a query, and it is often much
shorter than the total amount of knowledge we want to augment the model with.

Thus comes in the retrieval aspect of retrieval augmented generation (RAG),
in order to decide which chunk of text to add to the input query for question-
answering tasks. We explore the use case of document-based question answering,
specifically for finance-specific documents and queries. Suppose one has several
reports such as 10-ks or earning transcripts and would like to chat or ask ques-
tions on them. For this use case, we need to somehow effectively inject the
knowledge of those financial documents into the large language model. In or-
der to prevent hallucinations, some sort of in-context learning approach would
be ideal where we can specify via prompts for the model to only refer to the
additional context given with the question. For example by the following as a
systems prompt: ”””You are a financial chatbot trained to answer questions
based on the information provided in 10-K documents. Your responses should
be directly sourced from the content of these documents.””” and this as a user
prompt: f”Context: context Query: query Answer:”

Due to the size and complexity of the documents we want to chat with, it is
not possible to simply add the entirety of the text as context for each question.
Instead, some sort of retrieval algorithm must be developed to select the specific
chunk of text in the documents that contains the context that is most relevant
to answer the user’s query. That particular chunk of text is given to the LLM as
additional input and the model then generates a response based on the question
and the relevant context.

Below is a diagram of how a traditional RAG pipeline works. First, the user
asks the model a question, for example for financial-based Q-A, they might
ask ”What is the FY2022 capital expenditure amount (in USD millions) for
Company X?” This question is then converted into embeddinga or numerical
In order to find the relevant context, we do a
representations of the text.
similarity search (such as cosine similarity) between the query embeddings and

2Oded Ovadia, Menachem Brief, Moshik Mishaeli, and Oren Elisha. Fine-Tuning or Re-

trieval? Comparing Knowledge Injection in LLMs, 2023. arXiv:2312.05934.

3

Figure 1: Retreival Augmented Generation Architecture

the embeddings contained in the knowledge hub. The knowledge hub is created
from the set of documents we want to chat with. In this case, the documents
might be a set of financial documents about various companies. After processing
the unstructured documents in some way, the documents are divided into chunks
and each chunk is converted to embeddings in the form of a vector. All these
embeddings are stored in some sort of database, either locally or in the cloud
and they consist of the knowledge hub. The algorithm retrieves the relevant
chunk from this hub, and the chunk that is the most similar to the user query
is chained to it and given to the LLM as context.

1.3 Limitations of Current RAG Pipelines

The traditional RAG architecture faces many limitations that impact its effec-
tiveness in knowledge-intensive and domain-specific natural language processing
tasks. Most RAG pipelines break the document into uniform chunks without
any regard for the structure and content of the document. 3 Each chunk is made
up of the same number of words or tokens and perhaps some overlap between
chunks for context. The retriever will usually return the top k most similar
chunks, and each chunk will be of roughly equal size. However, this approach
does not account for the nature of the document at all and can lead to critical
oversight and information loss in certain situations. For example, if the answer
to the question stretched across a few different sections that was not necessar-
ily the most semantically similar chunks, a traditional RAG pipeline would not
return the most ideal chunk.

Semantic search via cosine similarity, a core component of RAG, also exhibits
challenges such as retrieving irrelevant or opposing information, indicating the
model’s sensitivity to language nuances and the potential for unexpected re-
sults. The most similar chunks are not necessarily the most relevant chunks,
however many RAG pipelines make this assumption. Additionally, most times,
standard embedding algorithms do not have any domain-specific knowledge and

3Antonio Jimeno Yepes, Yao You, Jan Milczek, Sebastian Laverde, and Renyu Liu. Finan-
cial Report Chunking for Effective Retrieval Augmented Generation, 2024. arXiv:2402.05131.

4

therefore, they overlook nuances of certain words or phrases in a specific field.
4

Basic chunking strategies and similarity search may have good results when
working with a single long text as the knowledge base such as a book or article.
However, in most cases, we are interested in the ability to chat with multi-
ple different kinds of documents, which often have more complicated structures
like headings and tables. When all the chunks are treated equally and thrown
into a single vector database, critical information is lost. For example, the set
of documents might be the same type of financial reports for various different
companies or over the course of several years. Each chunk of text, depending on
where in the document, would not have contained information like what com-
pany it is about or what year with respect to certain metrics. This can lead to
potentially incorrect and outdated information provided as the similarity search
could return outdated or irrelevant chunks since it disregarded additional data
about the text and documents.

Traditional retrieval algorithms lack the nuance and reasoning that is required
for higher-level question answering on multiple different documents. Since it is
usually just a similarity search based on the original question, the algorithm
would not go through the same logical steps a human would in order to find
the relevant section. For example, if you ask a financial analyst to calculate
metric x, they would go through a multi-step reasoning process of knowing how
to calculate the metrics and knowing where in the document that information is
contained. Such complexities cannot be captured all the time with a similarity
search with the question. The query itself might not have all the information
needed to indicate to the model where the most relevant chunk is, but rather
additional information and logical steps would be required.

2 Techniques to Improve Retrieval

Given the various limitations of current and standard RAG Pipelines, there is
clearly a need to develop and implement different strategies in order to address
these concerns. Throughout this section, we will explore a variety of different
techniques that are aimed to optimize RAG performance for the use case of
answering questions and chatting with various financial documents.

2.1 Chunking Techniques

The chunking method is a critical aspect of the retrieval process at it determines
the nature of the context that will be returned by the algorithm. Ineffective
chunking strategies can lead to incomplete context in the chunks, or on the

4Sthanikam Santhosh. How to improve RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) perfor-
mance, 2024. https://medium.com/@sthanikamsanthosh1994/how-to-improve-rag-retrieval-
augmented-generation-performance-2a42303117f8

5

other extreme, too much irrelevant and unneeded information included in each
chunk. When choosing a fixed chunk size, as most RAG pipelines do, it runs the
risk of including too much or too little information for each query asked. The
ideal approach will depend on the nature of the documents in the knowledge
hub as well as the length of the queries the model expects and how much context
is required to answer them. 5

Recursive Chunking is an example of a more adaptable chunking strategy that
uses other indicators and rules like punctuation to make chunking more dynamic.
While the chunks will still be of relatively equal size, the additional parameters
will ensure that the chunks are not cut mid-sentence, for example. Through
using Python libraries like Spacy and NLTK, we can use more sophisticated
sentence-spitting techniques that use natural language processing techniques to
be more aware of the context of the document.

When it comes to financial reports, these documents are generally quite long
and contain more complicated structures like tables. Documents of the same
nature, such as 10-ks also generally follow a specific format that can be indi-
cated by the headings and subheadings of the documents. Due to the special
nature of these financial reports, a version of element-based chunking that takes
such facts into account could help to further improve retrieval. A paper by
Unstructured proposed a novel way of breaking up documents into manageable
sizes via element-based chunking. 6 - if a title element is found, a new chunk is
started and if a table element is found, a new chunk is started, preserving the
entire table. Such strategies will help ensure that each context will return just
enough context to effectively answer the user’s question.

Other chunking methods include leveraging NLP techniques to implement re-
cursive, character based chunking or semantic chunking. The nature of semantic
or recursive chunking preserves the context of the document much better than
character based or uniform chunking methods but become more complex to im-
plement. A step about this is using something called agentic chunking where
another LLM is prompted to break up the text in the best way possible. While
this methods would seem to have the best contextual understanding, it is the
most computationally expensive and often runs into the issue of exceeding the
token size limit for the embedding models.

2.2 Query Expansion

Query Expansion, or query transformation refers to the idea of changing the
question fed into the RAG pipeline to find relevant chunks based on more than
the user’s original question. The idea behind this is that oftentimes, the user’s

5Pinecone.

strategies/

Chunking Strategies, 2023.

https://www.pinecone.io/learn/chunking-

6Antonio Jimeno Yepes, Yao You, Jan Milczek, Sebastian Laverde, and Renyu Liu. Finan-
cial Report Chunking for Effective Retrieval Augmented Generation, 2024. arXiv:2402.05131.

6

question may not explicitly contain all the information to indicate the algo-
rithm where in the document it should look for the context, especially it is via
a cosine similarity search. Sometimes, the user’s question alone can mislead
the algorithm to look in an incorrect area and therefore return an irrelevant
chunk. For more complicated questions and documents, more reasoning steps
are required to know where to look and basic RAG pipelines lack this completely.

A technique to somehow emulate the logic a human analyst might do with
retrieval is to utilize Hypothetical Document Embeddings (HyDE). With HyDE,
instead of just doing a similarity search with just the user’s original query, it uses
an LLM to generate a theoretical document when responding to a query and
then does the similarity search with both the original question and hypothetical
answer. 7. This technique has been shown to outperform standard retrievers and
eliminate the need for custom embedding algorithms, but can occasionally lead
to incorrect results as it is dependent on another LLM for additional context.8

Figure 2:

illustration of HyDE 9

2.3 Metadata Annotations and Indexing

When interacting with several different documents, there might be key data
points within the metadata that standard retrieval algorithms completely miss
out on. A struggle we had faced previously when trying to chat with multi-
ple documents, is that original RAG pipelines would confuse chunks of different
documents, so to overcome this, separate vector databases were created for each
document. However, this is not practical for large-scale applications and if the
user wants to switch between documents or chat with multiple simultaneously.
Metadata annotations is a method to overcome this hurdle and enhance retrieval

7AI Planet. Advanced RAG: Improving Retrieval using Hypothetical Document Embed-
dings (HYDE), 2023. https://medium.aiplanet.com/advanced-rag-improving-retrieval-using-
hypothetical-document-embeddings-hyde-1421a8ec075a

8Luyu Gao, Xueguang Ma, Jimmy Lin, Jamie Callan. Precise Zero-Shot Dense Retrieval

without Relevance Labels, 2022. arXiv:2212.10496.

9Luyu Gao, Xueguang Ma, Jimmy Lin, Jamie Callan. Precise Zero-Shot Dense Retrieval

without Relevance Labels, 2022. arXiv:2212.10496.

7

further.

The nature of metadata annotations should be considered with the chunking
strategies used. For example, since we will chunk the documents based on
elements, details about each element can be included in the annotations. For
example, if a table is created in a separate chunk, the metadata can include what
kind of table it is (ex. income statement, cash flow statement, etc). Addition-
ally, it is common to add summaries and representative keywords to metadata
annotations for additional context.10

2.4 Re-ranking Algorithms

With standard RAG pipelines, one can specify the number of documents or
chunks the algorithm should return and therefore how many chunks should be
fed as context to the input query. Generally, the top 1 or 2 chunks are in-
cluded as context, and these are the best results given a cosine similarity or
k-nearest neighbors search. However, such algorithms will give the most simi-
lar chunks, which might not correspond to the most relevant chunks for context.

Re-ranking algorithms is a method to prioritize the relevance over the similarity
of the chunks. Essentially, a method like cosine similarity might rank the top
10 chunks, but a separate algorithm will re-rank the algorithms to be based
on relevance, and then the top one or two chunks after the re-ranking will be
augmented as context to the input query. Cohere’s re-ranking algorithm is
a popular one and it along with others uses additional machine learning and
natural language processing techniques to further evaluate relevance beyond a
similarity search. In this paper we utilized a cross-encoder model to score how
relevant each retreived chunk was to the question and re ranked the chunks
based off the scores. The nature of the architecture suggests that cross encoder
models have higher accuracy than bi-encoder models for this specific use case.
11

2.5 Fine-tuning Embedding Algorithms

Embedding algorithms are what convert text into numerical representations,
and play a crucial role in RAG pipelines. It is possible to fine-tune embedding
algorithms based on domain-specific knowledge to enhance retrieval in that spe-
cific domain. Embeddings can also be dynamic where they adapt when words
have slightly different meanings based on the context. OpenAI’s embeddings are
an example of dynamic embeddings that change based on the context. Domain-
specific fine-tuning, however, requires access to datasets that consist of queries,
the corpus of text, and relevant documents about that specific domain. In this

10Akash Mathur. Advanced RAG: Optimizing Retrieval with Additional Context Meta-
data using LlamaIndex, 2024. https://akash-mathur.medium.com/advanced-rag-optimizing-
retrieval-with-additional-context-metadata-using-llamaindex-aeaa32d7aa2f

11Cohere. Rerank, 2024. https://cohere.com/rerank

8

paper, we are focusing on zero-shot methods to improve retrieval that require
no additional training data. However future work will investigate how addi-
tional annotations/data can possible improve RAG via fine tuning embedding
algorithms. 12

3 Evaluation

When it comes to evaluating RAG systems, the two main components are eval-
uating the model’s ability to retrieve context as well as its ability to answer
questions based on the context. In the datasets, we have access to ground truth
context and answers developed by human financial analysts. Analysis of the
model’s responses with respect to these ground truth answers is referred to as
structured evaluation, while evaluation without these ground truth answers is
unstructured evaluation. Structured evaluation is more robust in indicating how
accurate the model is, however, unstructured evaluation can be useful to tell us
about the quality of the chunk and answer and is needed in scenarios when one
does have access to ground truth data as is the case most of the time.

3.1 Retrieval Quality

The primary way to test the retrieval quality with structured data is with page-
level and paragraph-level accuracy. Since in the data, we have access to the
entire document and the section a human analyst referred to, we compare that
section to the chunks returned by the retrieval algorithm. If both the reference
context and algorithm context are on the same page, it will have a high retrieval
accuracy, a similar idea for paragraph-level accuracy.

For unstructured data, we can evaluate the retrieved chunk using Context Rele-
vance, as defined by the RAGAS Framework. 13For this metric, an LLM is asked
to count the number of sentences from the context that are relevant to answering
the question. The ratio of the number of extracted sentences to the total num-
ber of sentences in the context is defined as the context relevance score. This
score penalizes redundant information and rewards chunks that have a majority
of sentences that provide useful information to answer the question.

3.2 Answer Accuracy

For structured evaluation of question-answering, we evaluate the accuracy of
the model’s answer to the ground truth answers from the dataset. We use stan-
dard metrics including BLEU and Rouge-L Score, as well as cosine similarity.
However, these scores are not ideal for comparing the semantic meaning of two

12Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei
Sun, Qianyu Guo, Meng Wang, and Haofen Wang. Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large
Language Models: A Survey, 2024. arXiv:2312.10997.

13Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, Steven Schockaert. RAGAS: Automated

Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation. 2023, arXiv:2309.15217

9

different answers, and can therefore be misleading. Therefore, we also use a
version of LLM evaluation where we use a specific prompt for a model like GPT
and ask it to evaluate the accuracy of the candidate’s response given a ground
truth answer.

We can further evaluate the quality of the generator’s answer with respect to
the retrieved context in an unstructured manner. These metrics measure the
quality of the model’s response given the context. Answer faithfulness is another
metric presented by the RAGAS framework that can be used which measures
how well the model’s answer is grounded in the given context. It is measured
by dividing the number of statements in the answer that are supported by the
context by the total number of sentences in the answer. This score can also be
seen as a way of evaluating whether a not a model is hallucinating information
without the need for ground truth answers. A high faithfulness score means that
almost all the sentences in the generated answer are supported by the context,
meaning that the model did not make up any additional information outside of
the documents.

4 Results

To assess the performance of a model with RAG, we utilized the FinanceBench
benchmark for question and answering models developed by Patronus AI. This
benchmark consists of 10,231 questions about publicly traded companies in the
USA, covering a range of financial documents such as 10Ks, 10Qs, 8Ks, and
Earnings Reports released between 2015 and 2023. However only 150 rows were
publicly avaiable, so that is what was used in this study

Each entry in the FinanceBench dataset contains a question (e.g., “What Was
AMCOR’s Adjusted Non-GAAP EBITDA for FY 2023”), answer (e.g., “AM-
COR’s Adj. EBITDA was 2,018 million USD in FY 2023”), evidence string
(containing information needed to verify the answer), and a page number from
the relevant document. This dataset provides a comprehensive evaluation of
the RAG model’s ability to retrieve and generate accurate answers to financial
questions, highlighting LLM’s potential for real-world applications in financial
analysis and decision-making.

The FinanceBench dataset was tested for the general RAG model called base
RAG. In the base case, the RAG model was not given additional context, mean-
ing the model had to retrieve context information on its own. On the contrary,
another experiment was tested, we will call this Fake RAG. Fake RAG uses the
same LLM model but is given the correct context to answer the original ques-
tion, specifically using context information from FinanceBench. We also have
results for the whole dataset for the query expansion techniques and a rerank-
ing approach using a cross encoder. There are some initial results for testing
different chunking techniques, however because of compute limitations as well

10

as it exceeding the token limit of the model, we could not get a comprehen-
sive metric of the whole dataset and therefore cannot compare it directly with
the other methods. The preliminary results for those chunking methods will
be available in the github repository for anyone interesting in seeing the initial
results and code. While we had started to experiment with some metadata tag-
ging techniques, there was not a clear way to integrate such with the existing
pipeline so results for that technique are not currently available, but the cor-
responding repository will be updated when we have run successful experiments.

As you can see from the plot and table, the ”fake rag” approach performed
the best with an average LLM evaluation score of 0.573. This was expected
to have the best results as the LLM was given the context that was required
to answer the question correctly. However, as you can see from the table, this
method had the highest standard deviation or variation in the score. When
looking through the data, it seems that when given the right context, the LLM
answered the question correctly, or got it completely wrong. So while giving the
correct context significantly improves the accuracy of the model, there are still
limitation swith the LLM itself, even when using the state of the art genera-
tor like GPT-4o, when answering highly complex and domain specific questions.

The method with the lowest accuracy was the base rag case, with an aver-
age LLM evaluation score of 0.204. The same LLM and prompt template was
used for each method, only the way the context was retrieved differed. This
means that the difference in the context fed into the model contributed to a gap
in accuracy of over 35 percent, underscoring the importance of retrieving correct
texts, especially for longer more complex documents. The zero shot methods
of query expansion and re-ranking seem to have some improvement on the ac-
curacy with LLM evaluation scores of 0.24 and 0.256 respectively. While this
is no where near the accuracy of the fake rag results when it is fed the correct
context, its improvement over the base rag case is not insignificant. From this,
we can conclude that zero shot methods to enhance retrieval might be in the
step in the right direction to improve accuracy, but not nearly enough to make
robust systems with very high accuracy. In order to to achieve that goal, other
techniques, perhaps those that require some additional training or fine tuning
of some sorts can be utilized.

5

Impact

In this experiment, we aim to address the key limitations of current RAG
pipelines, some of these concerns have specific techniques to address them, while
other are more difficult to resolve. As research in this field continues, more ideas
will emerge to make these system more accurate and robust. They key concerns
we have identified can be viewed as three difference categories. The first con-

11

Figure 3: Aggregate Results Plot

Figure 4: Aggregate Results Table

12

cern is that relevant context is often located in multiple different locations, and
current algorithms only retrieve 1 or 2 chunks. Even if these algorithms retrieve
the top 5 - 10 chunks, these are not necessarily the current location of the most
relevant sections that a human analyst, would know to look. The second key
concern is that current RAG pipelines assume that similarity equivalence to rel-
evance while this is not correct. The final concern is that current RAG pipelines
chunk things in uniform sections that disregard document structures can can
leave certain parts incomplete.

6 Conclusion and Next Steps

By improving the performance of retrieval we improve the quality of the entire
system for document based question-answering tasks. Through retrieving the
right chunk, we not only provide better citations, but from there we can also
provide better answers to questions. Such underscores the importance of robust
retrieval algorithms, as without the right context, even the best generators will
give incorrect answers. We focused on use cases for RAG systems in the financial
domain, primarily question-answering on 10-K documents. However, the same
concept are applicable across industries and applications in healthcare, and legal
tech, as it provides a systemic framework to improve RAG pipelines for domain
specific tasks. We also employ a variety of evaluation metrics to show that
these enhanced rag techniques overcame some of the limitations. While each
metric alone cannot provide a complete overview, all together they give a sense of
performance of the system, with and without the availability of structured data.

While the techniques explored in this paper address certain key limitations in
current RAG pipelines, there are for other areas in which more could be done
to improve performance. In particular, a key struggle for retrieval algorithms is
when the context is across multiple parts in the document, and the model must
find and use all these sections in order to formulate an answer. Implementing
knowledge graphs could help retrieval systems do this by giving them a specific
set of instructions of how to retrieve questions and answer questions depending
on the question asked. Another technique to explore is fine tuning embedding
algorithms based on data labeled by the user so that the model can better
understand the nuance of each word and phrase in a domain specific context.

13

7 References

1. Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, Steven Schockaert. RAGAS: Au-
tomated Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation. 2023, arXiv:2309.15217.

2. Oded Ovadia, Menachem Brief, Moshik Mishaeli, and Oren Elisha. Fine-Tuning
or Retrieval? Comparing Knowledge Injection in LLMs, 2023. arXiv:2312.05934.

3. Antonio Jimeno Yepes, Yao You, Jan Milczek, Sebastian Laverde, and Renyu
Liu. Financial Report Chunking for Effective Retrieval Augmented Generation,
2024. arXiv:2402.05131.

4. Sthanikam Santhosh. How to improve RAG (Retrieval Augmented Genera-
tion) performance, 2024. https://medium.com/@sthanikamsanthosh1994/how-
to-improve-rag-retrieval-augmented-generation-performance-2a42303117f8

5. Pinecone. Chunking Strategies, 2023. https://www.pinecone.io/learn/chunking-

strategies

6. AI Planet. Advanced RAG: Improving Retrieval using Hypothetical Docu-
ment Embeddings (HYDE), 2023. https://medium.aiplanet.com/advanced-rag-
improving-retrieval-using-hypothetical-document-embeddings-hyde-1421a8ec075a

7. Luyu Gao, Xueguang Ma, Jimmy Lin, Jamie Callan. Precise Zero-Shot Dense

Retrieval without Relevance Labels, 2022. arXiv:2212.10496.

8. Akash Mathur. Advanced RAG: Optimizing Retrieval with Additional Context

Metadata using LlamaIndex, 2024. https://akash-mathur.medium.com/advanced-
rag-optimizing-retrieval-with-additional-context-metadata-using-llamaindex-aeaa32d7aa2f

9. Cohere. Rerank, 2024. https://cohere.com/rerank

10. Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai,
Jiawei Sun, Qianyu Guo, Meng Wang, and Haofen Wang. Retrieval-Augmented
Generation for Large Language Models: A Survey, 2024. arXiv:2312.10997.

11. Spurthi Setty. Rerankertestresultstest.csv, 2024. https://github.com/n78/Anote

12. Henry Toll. Chunkingevaluationresults.csv, 2024. https://github.com/n78/Anote

13. Spurthi Setty, Henry Toll. Queryexpansionresults.csv, 2024. https://github.com/nv78/Anote

14