Telco-RAG: Navigating the Challenges of Retrieval
Augmented Language Models for Telecommunications

Andrei-Laurentiu Bornea∗, Fadhel Ayed∗, Antonio De Domenico∗, Nicola Piovesan∗, Ali Maatouk+
∗Paris Research Center, Huawei Technologies, Boulogne-Billancourt, France
+Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA

4
2
0
2

g
u
A
7

]

R

I
.
s
c
[

3
v
9
3
9
5
1
.
4
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract—The application of Large Language Models (LLMs)
and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems in the
telecommunication domain presents unique challenges, primarily
due to the complex nature of telecom standard documents and
the rapid evolution of the field. The paper introduces Telco-
RAG,1 an open-source RAG framework designed to handle
the specific needs of telecommunications standards, particularly
3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) documents. Telco-
RAG addresses the critical challenges of implementing a RAG
pipeline on highly technical content, paving the way for applying
LLMs in telecommunications and offering guidelines for RAG
implementation in other technical domains.

I. INTRODUCTION

Large language models (LLMs) are designed to understand,
generate, and process text by leveraging extensive training
data. These models, built upon architectures such as Trans-
formers, employ deep learning techniques to analyze and
predict language patterns [1]. Their capabilities are largely
they process during
attributed to the vast amount of text
training, allowing LLMs to develop a nuanced understanding
of language, context, and even idiomatic expressions. The
utility of LLMs extends across various domains, among which
telecommunications, where models can improve operational
efficiency and enhance customer satisfaction [2].

Standalone language models rely solely on their inter-
nal representations and learned parameters to generate text,
which showcases modest knowledge in technical domains such
as telecommunication standard documents [3]. Two primary
methodologies have emerged to address this challenge: fine-
tuning and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). Fine-tuning
enables language model specialization via further training of
a fraction of the parameters using a domain-specific dataset.
However, fine-tuning can incur a high computational cost
[4] and is not suited for rapidly evolving domains where
new knowledge needs to be incorporated on a regular basis.
RAG stands out as an appealing alternative due to its cost-
effectiveness, adaptability, and scalability [5]. In the RAG
paradigm, knowledge from external sources is fetched in
real-time when a query is addressed to the system. This is
particularly tailored for quickly evolving fields [6].

In the telecommunication industry, a retrieval-augmented
language model that masters complex industry-specific knowl-
edge, such as the content of technical standards, would hold
significant practical value [7]. For instance, it would allow
the development of an advanced chatbot for professionals.

1https://github.com/netop-team/telco-rag

Such a tool would increase the accuracy and speed with
which telecommunications professionals access and comply
with international standards, fostering quicker development
cycles and improved regulatory adherence.

In this work, we concentrated our efforts on telecommuni-
cation standards, and specifically 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) documents. This focus was motivated by
the aforementioned practical utility of a chatbot specialized
in 3GPP and by the observation that even state-of-the-art
language models, such as GPT-4, exhibit scarce knowledge
of this content [3].

We have identified that the conventional RAG setup, which
typically extracts three to five data segments of 512 tokens
each [8], does not adequately meet the intricate demands of
telecommunications standards. Consequently, we have devel-
oped a specialized RAG pipeline named Telco-RAG specifi-
cally optimized for 3GPP documents.

Besides, through our design and methodology, we aim to
provide generally applicable guidelines to overcome the com-
mon challenges faced when implementing an RAG pipeline
in highly technical domains. These include identifying the
most impactful hyperparameters to tune, recommending de-
fault settings [9], reducing the high random access memory
(RAM) usage, and refining the user’s query [10]. We expect
that the Telco-RAG, which we make publicly available as an
open-source chatbot for 3GPP standards, and the associated
results will contribute substantially to integrating AI in the
telecommunications field.

II. METHODOLOGY

RAGs improve the quality of the LLM-generated responses
by providing the LLM with external sources of knowledge
based on a large corpus of documents. RAG pipelines start by
splitting the document corpora into fixed-sized long (chunk
size) segments called chunks. Using an embedding model,
each chunk is transformed into a vectorial representation
capturing the semantics of the segment. When a query is pre-
sented, the system identifies the relevant chunks by computing
a similarity between the chunks’ embeddings and the query’s
embedding. Lastly, RAG presents the relevant chunks, called
the context, alongside the query to a LLM that generates the
final response.

Any implementation of a RAG system for telecommunica-
tions will face four critical challenges: sensitivity to hyperpa-
rameters [9], vague user queries [10], high RAM requirements,
and sensitivity to the quality of the prompts [11]. In particular,

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. The proposed Telco-RAG architecture.

poor prompts affect the capacity of the LLMs to comprehend
the context of the queries and correctly reply to them. More-
over, vague queries limit the precision of the retrieval stage.
Fig. 1 depicts the proposed Telco-RAG tailored for LLM
deployment in the telecommunications sector. The proposed
system aims to improve the retrieval and processing of tech-
nical documents, focusing specifically on 3GPP standards. It
features a dual-stage pipeline, including a query enhancement
stage and a retrieval stage. The query enhancement stage
includes four steps: initially, it employs a custom glossary of
technical terms to augment the query, enhancing contextual
understanding. Subsequently, a neural network (NN) router
selectively identifies relevant documents from the document
corpus. This sub-selection optimizes the accuracy and ef-
ficiency, reducing the number of documents loaded in the
preliminary retrieval (step 3), which provides the first round of
context used to further refine the queries (step 4). Following
this, the retrieval stage utilizes the NN router to select the
documents (step 1) on which the RAG realizes the second
retrieval (step 2). Note that using the improved query boosts
the accuracy of the second retrieval thanks to the more accu-
rate embedding representations. The pipeline finalizes with a
generating component, relying on a state-of-the-art language
model such as GPT-3.5, which generates responses based on
retrieved context.

A. Hyperparameters Optimization

As numerous studies have shown, hyperparameter optimiza-
tion can provide large gains for retrieval-augmented models
(see [8], [12]). Therefore, using a synthetic dataset constructed
for this purpose, we conducted a meticulous optimization
of the chunk size, context
indexing strategy, and
embedding models (see Sec. III). These hyperparameters are
explained below

length,

• Chunk Size: Determines the length of each text segment

the RAG processes at once.

• Context Length: Length of the context yielded by re-

trieval component.

• Embedding Models: Algorithms that transform text into

numerical representations.

• Indexing Strategy: The FAISS index2 [13] by which the
model assesses the relevance of each text chunk related
to the given query.

B. Query Augmentation

Numerous studies indicate significant improvements when
augmenting vague queries in RAG pipelines [10]. In telecom
documents, two major issues arise with vague queries: the
abundance of technical terms and abbreviations in questions,
and the inability of the RAG to discern user intent, leading to
the retrieval of irrelevant, albeit similar, information.

1) Lexicon-enhanced Queries: In this section, we address
the challenge posed by the prevalence of technical terms and
abbreviations in questions, which are often difficult to capture
accurately in the embedding space. To tackle this issue, we
utilized the “Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications” [14] to
construct two dictionaries: one for abbreviations and another
for terms with their definitions. Integrating these dictionaries
into our query enhancement block of the pipeline- see Fig. 1-
allowed us to refine the embedding process. For each question,
we enriched the embedding with the definitions of relevant
terms from the dictionaries. This process refines the similarity
evaluation between the question and potential answers by
incorporating domain-specific knowledge. We also integrated
relevant terms from the dictionaries in our final prompt, built
using the retrieved context, user query, and the defined terms
and definitions. This ensures that the LLM was prompted with
the necessary technical vocabulary and definitions to process

2FAISS is a library by Facebook AI Research optimized for efficient
similarity search and clustering of dense vectors in large datasets on modern
CPUs and GPUs.

1. Glossary Enhancement2. NN Router3. Retrieval 14. Refine Query1. NN Router2. Retrieval 2LLMe.g. GPT 3.5EmbeddingsDatabaseContextVocabualaryfor 3GPPspecificationsUser QueryLLMe.g. GPT 3.5FaissIndexFaissIndexEnhanced QueryPrompt EngineeringFinal PromptOutputthe question effectively. This method was employed in the
Glossary Enhancement block of our pipeline, see Fig. 1.

2) Generating Candidate Answers: We use a language
model to generate all plausible answers based on the prelimi-
nary context selected in Retrieval 1. Then, we add these gener-
ated candidate answers to enhance the user’s query, clarifying
its intent and preventing the retrieval of irrelevant information.
The embedded enhanced query improves the identification of
the relevant information in the corpora, yielding a superior
final answer quality.

C. Enhancing the RAM Usage of the Telco-RAG

For large document corpora, the dataset of the embedded
chunks becomes so voluminous that it exceeds the limitations
of RAM capacities. Besides, we show in this work that for
highly technical documents, smaller chunks yield better per-
formance (see Sec. III-A2). However, the smaller the chunks,
the more the text segments to be processed by the RAG, which
increases the required RAM resources. To deal with this issue,
we recall that the 3GPP standards categorize specifications
into 18 distinct series [15]. Each series provides the technical
details of a specific aspect of mobile telecommunications
technologies (radio access, core network components, security,
etc). To improve the RAG usage efficiency, we developed an
NN router tailored to predict relevant 3GPP series based on
queries. This model enables selective loading of embeddings,
thus drastically reducing the RAM usage.

The architecture of the NN router incorporates two distinct
input channels. The first channel processes input 1, a 1024-
sized vector embedding the initial user query, while the second
channel processes input 2, an 18-sized vector. Each entry of
this vector is defined as the inner product between query
embeddings and the embedding of each 3GPP series summary
description, generated through a dedicated LLM.

Central to our model are two adjustable trainable parame-
ters, α and β, which modulate the influence exerted by each
input stream on the resultant output. The overall architecture
is illustrated in Fig. 2.

For the processing of the embedded query, our model
implements a series of linear transformations that reduce its
dimensionality from 1024 to 256. This reduction incorporates
dropout layers to mitigate overfitting and a batch normalization
layer to enhance training stability. Concurrently, the second
input stream begins with a dimensionality of 18, preprocessed
through a softmax layer, which is then expanded to 256
dimensions, to process jointly the contributions from both
input streams in the decision-making process. The outputs
from these pathways are weighted by 2 trainable parameters,
α and β. These weighted outputs are summed up into a unified
representation, which our neural network model utilizes to
ascertain the target 3GPP series with heightened accuracy.

Integrating this NN model

into Telco-RAG framework
significantly elevates the ability to discern and categorize
standards-related queries, paving the way for more targeted
and efficient information retrieval.

Fig. 2. The proposed NN router architecture.

To train the NN router, we created a synthetic dataset
comprising 30,000 questions from 500 documents from 3GPP
Release 18, and their originating series that served as target
labels. The adoption of synthetic data for training and testing
our NN router reduces the risk of overfitting the dataset on
which we test Telco-RAG pipeline [16].

D. Prompt Engineering

Prompt engineering plays a crucial role in RAG systems,
particularly in ensuring that the RAG maintains focus on the
user’s question while comprehending the broader context [11].
In our study, we designed a structured, dialogue-oriented
prompt, as prompt engineering literature has shown better
LLM performance with this format [17]. More specifically,
the final prompt of Telco-RAG starts with the query followed
by the definitions of the terms and abbreviations. After that,
the prompt includes the generated context. Importantly, the
includes the query repetition, before the
proposed prompt
related options and query instruction helping the model to
effectively generate a relevant response. The designed format
of the LLM prompt is as follows:

*Please provide the answers to the following multiple-
choice question: <Question>
*Terms and Definitions: <Defined Terms>
*Abbreviations: <Abbreviations>
*Considering the following context: <Retrieved Context>
*Please provide the answers to the following multiple-
choice question: <Question>
*Options: <Options>
*Write only the option number corresponding to the
correct answer.

III. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS

In this section, we present the performance of Telco-RAG
framework in enhancing the capabilities of LLMs applied to

 3GPP 21 series- embedding 3GPP 22 series- embedding 3GPP 23 series- embedding 3GPP 38 series- embeddingFeed ForwordInnerproductInnerproductInnerproductInnerproductQuery EmbeddingFeed ForwordClassifierInput 2Input 1OutputPreprocessingTABLE I
ARCHITECTURES OF THE COMPARED RAGS.

Name

Embedding
Model

Chunk
Size

Context
Length

Benchmark RAG
Telco-RAG

-3-large[1024 size] 500
-3-large[1024 size] 125

1500-2500
1500-2500

Candidate
Answers

IndexFlatIP
IndexFlatIP

Glossary
Enhancement

NN
Router

Enhanced
Final Prompt

No
Yes

No
Yes

No
Yes

the telecom domain. To achieve this task, we have used two
sets of multiple choice questions (MCQs), one optimization
set and one evaluation set, specifically created to assess the
knowledge of LLMs in telecommunications. The optimization
set
is composed of 2000 MCQs generated following the
methodology presented in [3] and based on documents from
3GPP Rel.18. The second set consists of the 1840 TeleQnA
MCQs related to 3GPP documentations [3]. The purpose of
Telco-RAG is to effectively help professionals with complex
queries from telecom domain. The MCQ format,
though
very convenient for evaluation purposes, does not realistically
correspond to the type of queries that will be submitted to
the system. i.e., the user will likely do not provide any option
to the LLM. Hence, we decided not to include the options
in the retrieval process and use them solely to assess Telco-
RAG accuracy. In the following results, accuracy measures the
fraction of correct answers of Telco-RAG to the queries in the
datasets.

Table I presents the main parameters of Telco-RAG and
the RAG benchmark architecture compared throughout the
following experiments.

A. Hyperparameters Optimization

1) Selecting the Embedding Model: In this experiment, we
compare the performance of two OpenAI embedding models
for the Telco-RAG framework: 1) Text-embedding-3-large and
text-embedding-ada-002 [18]. Text-embedding-3-large extends
the capabilities of its predecessor text-embedding-ada-002.
Text-embedding-3-large is trained using Matryoshka Repre-
sentation Learning [19], a technique that allows the shortening
of the embedding vectors, which reduces computational and
RAM requirements, while preserving a stronger performance.
Our results show that, on average,
the text-embedding-3-
large model, with a fixed embedding dimension of 1024,
improves the accuracy of Telco-RAG by 2.29%, over the text-
embedding-ada-002 model.

2) Chunk Size Optimization: We have assessed the influ-
ence of varying chunk sizes— 125, 250, and 500 tokens—on
the accuracy of RAG systems. Importantly, there is an inverse
relationship between chunk size and Telco-RAGaccuracy.
These results highlight the critical importance of optimizing
chunk size, which has led to an average improvement of 2.9%
in accuracy when selecting as chunk size 125 tokens instead
of 500 tokens, for equal context length.

3) Context Length Optimization: Fig. 3 shows the linear
regression fitted on the RAG accuracy computed for a diverse
set of context lengths, with different configurations. The results

Fig. 3. RAG’s accuracy vs context length.

show an ascending trend of the accuracy as a function of
context length. As a side note, we have noticed a drop in
performance when the context length gets larger than 1500
tokens. However, this is alleviated by presenting the query
twice, before and after the context, as discussed in Sec. II-D.
4) Indexing Strategy Selection: In our research, we have
evaluated the impact of different indexing strategies in the
accuracy of Telco-RAG: 1) IndexFlatL2, 2) IndexFlatIP, and 3)
IndexHNSW. IndexFlatL2 is based on the Euclidean distance
while IndexFlatIP uses Euclidean dot product. In constrast,
IndexHNSW is an approximate method for efficient searching
in high-dimensional data spaces using Euclidean distance.
IndexHSNW has shown considerably inferior performance
compared to IndexFlatIP and IndexFlatL2. Importantly, despite
marginal differences in terms of accuracy, IndexFlatIP has
outperformed IndexFlatL2 in 80% of our experiments.

B. Query Augmentation

In this section we evaluate the gain in accuracy brought by
enhancing the user queries through the methodology described
in Sec. II-B.

1) Lexicon-enhanced Queries: To validate the effectiveness
of this approach, we applied it to a subset of lexicon-focused
questions from TeleQnA [3], which were designed to evaluate
the understanding of abbreviations and technical terms within
the telecommunications sector. Our results presented in Table
II have shown that the designed RAG framework enhances the
baseline LLM accuracy on lexicon questions, i.e., from 80.2 %
to 84.8%. However, Lexicon-enhanced queries have achieved
an accuracy rate exceeding 90% on these questions, gaining

200400600Context Length (Tokens)0.660.670.680.690.70AccuracyLinear Regression6% compared to the same RAG pipeline without the lexicon
enhancement.

TABLE II
IMPACT OF LEXICON-ENHANCED QUERIES.

Baseline (No Context)

Benchmark RAG Telco-RAG

80.2%

84.8%

90.8%

2) Enhancing User’s Query With Candidate Answers: To
retrieve a better context, we enhance the user’s query with
candidate answers generated by an LLM (step 4 of the query’s
enhancement stage). Table III presents the accuracy of Telco-
RAG with and without the usage of these candidate answers.
Specifically, we can observe that for the text-embed-ada-002
embedding model, the addition of candidate answers consider-
ably improves the query embedding representations, bringing
a 3.56% average accuracy gain. The accuracy of the RAG with
text-embed-ada-002 including refined queries is larger than the
one achieved using text-embed-3-large without refined queries.
Furthermore, with text-embed-3-large, we observe a gain of
2.06% on average accuracy when using candidate answers in
the retrieval process.

TABLE III
RAG’S ACCURACY WITH AND WITHOUT REFINED QUERY.

Embedding
Model

Chunk Context

Initial

Size

Length Accuracy

Refined
Accuracy

Text-embed-ada-002
Text-embed-ada-002
Text-embed-ada-002
Text-embed-3-large
Text-embed-3-large
Text-embed-3-large

125
250
500
125
250
500

750
2000
2000
750
2000
2000

0.729
0.770
0.740
0.744
0.784
0.774

0.777 (+4.8%)
0.795 (+2.5%)
0.774 (+3.4%)
0.780 (+3.6%)
0.796 (+1.2%)
0.788 (+1.4%)

C. RAM Usage Analysis in the Telco-RAG

Selecting a 125-token chunk size increases the RAM re-
quirements of the Telco-RAG (see Sec. II-C). However, the
integration of the designed NN router can tackle this issue.
Fig. 5 presents the histogram of RAM usage for the 2000
MCQs in the optimization set. NN router dynamically se-
lects the number of documents processed by the Telco-RAG
pipeline based on their relevance to the query, as opposed to
a fixed number of documents processed by the Benchmark
RAG architecture. This method introduces variability in RAM
usage among different queries, which results in the probability
density function (PDF) in Fig. 5. Our results show that the NN-
enhanced RAG model leads in average to a RAM consumption
of 1.25 GB, thus reducing of 45% the requirement of 2.3 GB
-obtained by the Benchmark RAG solution.

As presented in Sec. II-C, the proposed NN router reduces
the RAM usage of the designed RAG by selecting a limited
number of retrieved documents, whose content relates with
the query. To assess the capability of the NN router, we have

compared it to GPT 3.5 and GPT 4 and provided to each model
the questions of our optimization dataset including with each
of their prompt the related 3GPP series description, Therefore,
we have asked the three model to indicate the top k most
related 3GPP series. Table IV shows the accuracy determined
by subsequently verifying if the correct 3GPP series was
among the top k retrieved ones.

The results in Table IV highlight that the proposed NN
model outperforms both GPT 3.5 and GPT 4 in identifying
relevant 3GPP Series for a query,
leading to an average
accuracy gain of 37.8% and 11.1%, respectively.

TABLE IV
ACCURACY COMPARISON OF THE NN ROUTER WITH GPT 3.5 AND THE
GPT 4 AT FINDING THE MOST RELEVANT 3GPP SERIES FOR A GIVEN
QUESTION.

Top k

NN Router GPT 3.5 GPT 4

k=1
k=3
k=5

51.3%
80.6%
88.3%

19.9%
36.6%
50.3%

30.4%
70.8%
85.6%

The ability of the designed NN router to accurately deduce
the applicable 3GPP series for a given query reduces the
consideration of irrelevant content. This reduction not only
lowers the computational complexity of the retrieval steps but
also the overall resources needed for processing the retrieved
content.

D. Enhanced Prompt Formatting

In this section, we highlight the accuracy gain brought by
the prompt presented in Sec. II-D, which we have designed for
LLM answering MCQs related to telecom domain. Our anal-
ysis of the results revealed a 4.6% average gain in accuracy,
compared to the original JSON format of TeleQnA questions
This result suggests that human-like query structures can
significantly elevate the contextual understanding and accuracy
of LLM models.

E. Overall Performance

In this section, we present the accuracy of the Telco-RAG
on the evaluation MCQs, i.e., 1840 3GPP-related questions
from TeleQnA [3]. Specifically, we consider three groups of
MCQs, Rel. 17 MCQs, Rel. 18 MCQs, and the overall set of
TeleQnA MCQs related to 3GPP documentations. For each of
these sets of MCQs, we compare the performance of GPT 3.5
with Telco-RAG, GPT 3.5 with the Benchmark RAG, and GPT
3.5 without RAG. Fig. 4 highlights that Telco-RAG leads to
notable gains in all the experiments. Importantly, Telco-RAG
results an average improvement of 6.6% and 14.45% compared
to GPT 3.5 with and without the Benchmark RAG.

IV. CONCLUSIONS

This paper presented Telco-RAG, a novel RAG framework
for processing 3GPP telecommunications standards and sup-
porting LLM in telecom use cases. We have demonstrated
that refinements in chunk sizes, embedding models, index-
ing strategies, and query structuring significantly boost RAG

Fig. 4. Comparison the accuracy of Telco-RAG system with a baseline GPT 3.5 with/without the Benchmark RAG on the TeleQnA questions related to
3GPP documents.

[6] A. Balaguer, V. Benara, R. Cunha, R. Estev˜ao, T. Hendry, D. Holstein,
J. Marsman, N. Mecklenburg, S. Malvar, L. O. Nunes et al., “RAG
vs Fine-tuning: Pipelines, Tradeoffs, and a Case Study on Agriculture,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.08406, 2024.

[7] N. Piovesan, A. De Domenico, and F. Ayed, “Telecom language models:
Must they be large?” IEEE 35th Annual International Symposium on
Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications (PIMRC), 2024.

[8] LlamaIndex,

“Evaluating
Using

RAG
2024.
evaluating-the-ideal-chunk-size-for-a-rag-system-using-llamaindex-6207e5d3fec5

System
[Online].

Size
a
Blog,
LlamaIndex
https://www.llamaindex.ai/blog/

the
LlamaIndex,”

Available:

Chunk

Ideal

for

[9] P. Finardi, L. Avila, R. Castaldoni, P. Gengo, C. Larcher, M. Piau,
P. Costa, and V. Carid´a, “The Chronicles of RAG: The Retriever, the
Chunk and the Generator,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.07883, 2024.
[10] C.-M. Chan, C. Xu, R. Yuan, H. Luo, W. Xue, Y. Guo, and J. Fu, “RQ-
RAG: Learning to Refine Queries for Retrieval Augmented Generation,”
in arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00610, 2024.

[11] Banghao Chen, Zhaofeng Zhang, Nicolas Langren, Shengxin Zhu,
“Unleashing the potential of prompt engineering in Large Language
Models: a comprehensive review,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.14735,
2023.

[12] S. Siriwardhana, R. Weerasekera, E. Wen, T. Kaluarachchi, R. Rana,
and S. Nanayakkara, “Improving the Domain Adaptation of Retrieval
Augmented Generation (RAG) Models for Open Domain Question An-
swering,” Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
vol. 11, pp. 1–17, 01 2023.

[13] J. Johnson, M. Douze, and H. J´egou, “Faiss: Facebook ai similarity

search,” https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss, 2017.

[14] 3GPP TSG SA, “TR 21.905, Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications,”

V17.2.0, March 2024.

[15] 3GPP, “Specifications by series.” [Online]. Available: https://www.

3gpp.org/specifications-technologies/specifications-by-series

[16] F. Gilardi, M. Alizadeh, and M. Kubli, “ChatGPT Outperforms Crowd-
the National

Workers for Text-Annotation Tasks,” Proceedings of
Academy of Sciences, vol. 120, no. 30, 2023.

[17] J. Gao, M. Galley, and L. Li, “Neural Approaches to Conversational
AI,” in Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(ACL): Tutorial Abstracts, 2019.

[18] OpenAI, “New embedding models and api updates,” https://openai.com/
blog/new-embedding-models-and-api-updates, 2023, accessed: 2024-
04-18.

[19] A. Kusupati, G. Bhatt, A. Rege, M. Wallingford, A. Sinha, V. Ramanu-
jan, W. Howard-Snyder, K. Chen, S. Kakade, P. Jain, and A. Farhadi,
“Matryoshka Representation Learning,” in Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2022.

Fig. 5. PDF of the RAM usage of Telco-RAG vs Benchmark RAG.

system performance and accuracy. The provided solutions are
general and can deal with frequent challenges encountered
in building RAG pipelines for highly technical domains. We
expect that the Telco-RAG, which we make publicly available,
and the associated results will contribute substantially to the
integration of AI in the telecommunications field.

REFERENCES

[1] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez,
L. u. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,” in Advances
in neural information processing systems (NIPS), 2017, pp. 5998–6008.
[2] A. Maatouk, N. Piovesan, F. Ayed, A. D. Domenico, and M. Debbah,
“Large Language Models for Telecom: Forthcoming Impact on the
Industry,” IEEE Communications Magazine, pp. 1–7, 2024.

[3] A. Maatouk, F. Ayed, N. Piovesan, A. De Domenico, M. Debbah,
and Z.-Q. Luo, “TeleQnA: A Benchmark Dataset
to Assess Large
Language Models Telecommunications Knowledge,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.15051, 2023.

[4] N. C. Thompson, K. Greenewald, K. Lee, and G. F. Manso, “The com-
putational limits of deep learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.05558,
2020.

[5] O. Ovadia, M. Brief, M. Mishaeli, and O. Elisha, “Fine-Tuning or
Retrieval? Comparing Knowledge Injection in LLMs,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.05934, 2024.

020406080Accuracy (%)1500 - Release 182500 - Release 181500 - Release 172500 - Release 171500 - Overall2500 - Overall60.8+9.3+5.860.8+11.2+6.459.6+2.5+8.459.6+3.3+9.660.1+7.0+6.360.1+8.7+6.9GPT 3.5GPT 3.5 + Benchmark RAGGPT 3.5 + Telco-RAG0.51.01.52.0Memory (GB)0.00.51.01.52.0PDFBenchmark RAG: 2.3 GB