4
2
0
2

p
e
S
5
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
4
8
0
3
1
.
5
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

THE 2ND FUTUREDIAL CHALLENGE: DIALOG SYSTEMS WITH RETRIEVAL
AUGMENTED GENERATION (FUTUREDIAL-RAG)

Yucheng Cai1, Si Chen2, Yuxuan Wu1, Yi Huang2, Junlan Feng∗,2, Zhijian Ou∗,1

1Speech Processing and Machine Intelligence (SPMI) Lab, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
2China Mobile Research Institute, Beijing, China
fengjunlan@chinamobile.com, ozj@tsinghua.edu.cn

ABSTRACT

Recently, increasing research interests have focused on
retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to mitigate hallucina-
tion for large language models (LLMs). Following this trend,
we launch the FutureDial-RAG challenge at SLT 2024, which
aims at promoting the study of RAG for dialog systems. The
challenge builds upon the MobileCS2 dataset, a real-life cus-
tomer service datasets with nearly 3000 high-quality dialogs
containing annotations for knowledge base query and corre-
sponding results. Over the dataset, we define two tasks, track
1 for knowledge retrieval and track 2 for response genera-
tion, which are core research questions in dialog systems with
RAG. We build baseline systems for the two tracks and design
metrics to measure whether the systems can perform accu-
rate retrieval and generate informative and coherent response.
The baseline results show that it is very challenging to per-
form well on the two tasks, which encourages the participat-
ing teams and the community to study how to make better use
of RAG for real-life dialog systems.

Index Terms— Dialog systems, Retrieval augmented

generation

1. INTRODUCTION

Developing intelligent dialog systems has been one of the
longest running goals in AI. In recent years, significant
progress has been made in building dialog systems with the
breakthrough of deep learning methods and the large amount
of conversational data being made available for system devel-
opment [1, 2, 3, 4].

There are still many challenges toward building future
dialog systems. The first FutureDial challenge focused on
building semi-supervised and reinforced task-oriented dialog
systems (FutureDial-SereTOD) [2, 5], which was success-
fully held at EMNLP 2022 SereTOD workshop1. ChatGPT
[3], a newly emerged generative dialog system in the end of
2022, has marked another amazing progress in engaging users

∗ Corresponding author.

The code is released at https://
github.com/futuredialchallenge/2024-RAG/. This work is
partly supported by the National Science and Technology Major Project
(2023ZD0121401)

1http://seretod.org/

in open-domain dialogs. However, problems like hallucina-
tion and fabrication [6] still hinder the usage of such systems
in real-life applications like customer service systems, which
requires pin-point accuracy. Retrieval augmented generation
(RAG) [7, 8] has been introduced to enhance dialog systems
with retrieved information from external knowledge bases and
has attracted increasing interests. RAG has been shown to be
able to help the question-answering and dialog systems to re-
ply with higher accuracy and factuality, providing more infor-
mative and grounded responses [9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16].
However, there remain challenges for dialog systems with
RAG such as designing retrievers that can retrieve knowledge
from multiple knowledge sources, building dialog systems
with RAG that can effectively utilize available tools and API-
calls for retrieval [17, 18], and etc. These problems remain
under-studied, mainly due to the lack of appropriate dialog
datasets to study them.

To further promote the study of how to empower dia-
log systems with RAG, we release a new dataset, called Mo-
bileCS2 (Mobile Customer Service) that aims to benchmark
and stimulate related researches in this area. The dataset is
annotated from the real-life customer-service logs instead of
the Wizard-of-Oz methods [1]. Relevant knowledge bases
and ground truth retrieved results are annotated so that dialog
systems with RAG can be trained over such data. Note that
successful fulfilling of customer-service usually needs to call
specialized domain knowledge and/or APIs to retrieve rele-
vant information. This dataset is very suited to benchmark
dialog systems with RAG. In MobileCS2, there are multiple
types of knowledge bases, like user profile, product informa-
tion and FAQ manual, which bring challenge to the retrieval
task in RAG. Moreover, the dataset contains around 3,000 ses-
sions of unlabeled dialogs along with the same amount of ses-
sions of labeled dialogs, which facilitates the study for semi-
supervised dialog systems with RAG [19, 20, 21, 22, 16]. We
also translate the dataset to make it available in both Chinese
and English.

Upon the MobileCS2 dataset, we build a baseline dialog
system with RAG. The baseline system consists of a retriever
to retrieve relevant knowledge pieces and a generator to gen-

 
 
 
 
 
 
erate responses. To comprehensively evaluate the whole sys-
tem, we design several metrics. For the retriever, we use the
recall metrics to evaluate whether the retriever can accurately
retrieve the relevant knowledge. For the generator, we assess
both the coherency and informativeness of the system and cal-
culate a combined score.

Following the success of the 1st FutureDial challenge,
the 2nd FutureDial challenge2, co-located with SLT 2024,
aims to benchmark and stimulate research in building dialog
systems with RAG. With the newly released dialog dataset,
MobileCS2, the features of the 2nd FutureDial challenge are
demonstrated in Figure 1. We aim to create a forum to discuss
key challenges in the field and share findings from real-world
applications.

In summary, the main contributions of this work are three

folds:

• We propose the 2nd FutureDial Challenge (FutureDial-
RAG) to promote the study of retrieval augmented gen-
eration for dialog systems.

• To support the challenge, we carefully selected and
annotated dialogs from real-life customer-service logs
and release the MobileCS2 dataset. The dataset is the
first dialog dataset for RAG challenge, containing both
Chinese and English version.

• We release a dialog system with RAG as the baseline
for the challenge, as well as metrics and evaluation
scripts that can comprehensively evaluate the system.
The evaluation results show that the dataset is challeng-
ing, which can stimulate research in building dialog
systems with RAG.

2. RELATED WORK

2.1. Dialog Datasets with Knowledge Bases
Building dialog datasets with knowledge bases is challeng-
ing, especially those which require annotations for the en-
tities from the knowledge bases for each dialog utterance.
The noisy utterances make it hard for the annotators to link
the entity mentioned in a dialog to the existing one in the
knowledge bases. To mitigate the difficulty of annotating di-
alog with knowledge bases (especially those with noisy utter-
ances), most previous datasets were built by using Wizard-of-
Oz simulated games [23, 1, 24] to generate annotated dialogs.
Instead of annotating real-life dialogs with knowledge bases,
the annotators are asked to reconstruct dialogs based on sam-
pled knowledge bases results. Though those datasets have the
advantage of high-quality entity annotations with few mis-
takes, they suffer from the serious problems that the dialogs
in the datasets are different from real-life dialog logs, which
contain noisy utterances. Dialog systems trained on those
datasets are sensitive to noises [25], which hinder the usage
of those systems for real-life applications.

2http://futuredial.org/

To relieve this issue, the previous work [25] has proposed
to annotate entities from real-life dialogs instead of recon-
structing them from the sampled entities. Following the suc-
cess of [25], we also annotate dialogs from real-life customer-
service logs. However, in the previous work [25], the dialog
only contain local knowledge bases aggregated from the an-
notations of a certain dialog, which is still not so realistic for
real-life scenarios. To address this problem, we propose to
aggregate the knowledge bases from the annotations of the
whole datasets according to different search intents, which
will be detailed in Section 4. This setting also support the
study of dialog systems with RAG with multiple sources of
knowledge bases, which is important for real-life applications
of such dialog systems.

2.2. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)

Recent researches such as RAG [7] and REALM [8] have
introduced knowledge retrieval models into conditional gen-
eration, which greatly improves the quality of generated re-
sponses in knowledge-intensive tasks such as open-domain
question answering and knowledge-grounded dialog systems.
Those works use BM25 or neural network based retrievers
such as DPR [26] to retrieve relevant knowledge given context
and generate the answer using the retrieved knowledge pieces.
There are several recent studies that improve over the origi-
nal retrieval-augmented generation systems. Poly-encoder [9]
proposes to use a poly encoder instead of the original dual
encoder to improve the retrieval accuracy. Fusion-in-Decoder
[10] proposes to process retrieved passages independently in
the encoder, but jointly fused them in the decoder, which im-
proves the generation quality. RetroMAE [27] proposed to
pretrain the retriever with mask auto-encoding objective func-
tion to better capture the information of the whole sentence.

However, there still remain several problems that pre-
vious works do not comprehensively study due to lack of
appropriate datasets. First, to our knowledge, there are no
previous works that study how to retrieve from multiple types
of knowledge bases, including, for example, user profile (lo-
cally to one dialog), product information and FAQ manual
(globally in a task). Second, most RAG-related datasets do
not contain annotations of multiple relevant knowledge for
a single turn of dialog. These two problems are, however,
commonly encountered in real-life scenarios.
In this chal-
lenge, the dataset, which is directly annotated from real-life
customer-service logs, has the characteristic that helps to
study the two problems mentioned above. The challenge pro-
vides new challenging settings for researchers to study dialog
systems with RAG.

3. CHALLENGE OVERVIEW

The 1st FutureDial challenge at EMNLP 2022 [2, 5, 25, 28]
focused on building semi-supervised and reinforced task-
oriented dialog systems (FutureDial-SereTOD), and released

Table 1. Statistics of the MobileCS2 dataset. Knowledge-
retrieval-needed denotes those turns that api query̸=NULL.

Train

Dev

Test

Total

Dialogs
Turns
Knowledge-retrieval-needed

1926
16120
4314

412
3246
808

413
3240
817

2751
22606
5939

• Track 2: Dialog systems with retrieval augmented gen-

eration

Given the context in a dialog, the most relevant knowledge
snippet in the multi-source databases should be retrieved by a
retrieval model. So Track 1 aims to build the retrieval model
for the dialog system. Based on retrieved knowledge, Track
2 aims to build a retrieval-augmented dialog system in the
customer service scenario. The system should generate infor-
mative responses leveraging the retrieved results.

4. THE MOBILECS2 DATASET

To support the 2nd FutureDial challenge and the study of
dialog systems with RAG, we release the MobileCS2 dataset.
The MobileCS2 dataset is derived from the real-world mo-
bile conversational scenarios and comprises around 6,000
processed dialog logs (nearly 3,000 carefully annotated) be-
tween customers and customer service staffs. The statistics
of the MobileCS2 dataset is shown in Table 1. It can serve
for research aims such as the development of conversational
models, colloquial human-to-human dialog systems, and
data-driven systematic dialog analysis.

4.1. Annotation Details
In the customer service scenario, there are some knowledge
or information that the customer service agent needs to get
from knowledge bases (KBs) in order to correctly respond
to the user. Therefore, to annotate the necessary knowledge
or information, the annotators should imagine themselves as
customer service agents. When presented with a dialog, an-
notators are required to identify the agent’s intent (labeled by
api query) at each turn. If the intent is to query the KBs to
seek external information and the response contains specific
details, the annotator should perform a retrospective analysis
based on the information provided in the response and an-
notate the corresponding query result. For those turns that
knowledge retrieval is not needed by the agent in order to
respond to the user, api query is labeled to be NULL. Specif-
ically, Table 2 contains the set of intents and the explanations
of each intent, which are provided to annotators for their ref-
erence during the annotation process. For example, given the
dialog “Help me check my package”, the annotator needs to
identify the intent “Search for user information” and then an-
notate the package that appears in the customer service’s re-
sponse into the query result.

We recruited 6 customer service staffs for the annotation,
which are divided into 2 teams. The annotation is conducted

Fig. 1. Overview of the FutureDial-RAG Challenge: Dialog
Systems with Retrieval Augmented Generation.

a large-scale human-human dialog dataset MobileCS1 (Mo-
bile Customer Service). Following its success, the 2nd Fu-
tureDial challenge focuses on building dialog systems with
RAG, with the following features:

• We release a new dataset from the mobile customer-
service logs (MobileCS2) that contains both labeled
and unlabeled data, which encourages the study of
semi-supervised dialog systems with RAG.

• The dataset enables the study of building dialog sys-

tems with knowledge base queries and API calls.

• The dataset is available in both Chinese and English
versions to the public, so that researchers around the
world can experiment with this dataset.

To enable a dialog system with RAG to provide appro-
priate answers and services to users, it is essential for the
system to utilize knowledge relevant to the conversation
context. Therefore the 2nd challenge examines how dia-
log systems can retrieve the most appropriate knowledge
pieces from the knowledge base and generate grounded and
faithful response to user requests, with the newly released
knowledge-grounded dialog dataset, MobileCS2. The in-
formation needed should be retrieved from a given database
or API call, which returns specific feedback closely related
to real customer service scenarios, such as bill inquiry and
package change. Accordingly, the following two tracks are
proposed, which are related to the information retrieval of
dialog data and the construction of dialog systems with RAG
in the customer service scenario respectively:

• Track 1:

Information retrieval based on knowledge

bases and dialog context

Main class

api query

Description

Table 2. Detailed description for api query annotation.

QA

[QA]

NULL

-

API-Inquiry

Search for products information

Search for user information

Search for other information

Consult the FAQ manual, which includes a collection of commonly
asked questions such as recent promotional packages and general
business regulations.

Based on the contextual information, customer service personnel can
successfully complete the conversation without the need for addi-
tional inquiries.

Inquire about the current business information of the mobile com-
pany, such as specific packages, data plans, etc.
Inquire about the services that the user currently possesses, including
the current package, current monthly fee, and current data usage.
Inquire about other key information used to complete the dialog. For
example, inquiring about text messages regarding excessive data us-
age alerts sent by the mobile company in the historical trajectory,
querying the address of the business hall, etc.

API-Cancel

Cancel business

Revoke a certain service currently possessed by the user.

API-Handle

Handle business

Process a new service for the user.

API-Verification Verify identity

Send verification codes, passwords, or other related customer service
verification operations to the user.

dialog by dialog, and the labeling task for one dialog is as-
signed to an arbitrary annotator, and the annotation process
takes about a week. To ensure the quality of the dataset, cross-
validation is conducted between the 2 teams, and 100 anno-
tated dialogs are checked by the other team everyday. The
cross-validation agreement rate is 97 percent, which shows
the dataset is of high quality. After annotation, the dataset
is desensitized to remove sensitvie personal information like
individual names, ids, and phone numbers.

In the final dataset, each sample in the dataset represents a
dialog. At each turn of the dialog, there are two types of infor-
mation to be annotated: customer service intent (api query)
and customer service query results (api result). An example
of the annotated data dialog data is shown in Figure 2.

4.2. Post-processing
Based on the annotation data, it is possible to aggregate the
information in the dataset and simulate the information that
the agents can access in real-world services. For turns an-
notated with the inquiry [QA], the information can be ag-
gregated into an FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) hand-
book across the entire dataset (KBF AQ). Turns labeled as
“Search for user information” can be consolidated into a user
database (KBuser) within a single dialog. Meanwhile, turns
labeled as “search for products information” can be aggre-
gated into a product database (KBproduct) across the entire
dataset. These three databases largely emulate the channels
through which the agents acquire knowledge in real-world
settings. In MobileCS2, the size of KBF AQ ∪ KBproduct
is 4108, and the average size of KBuser is 0.535.

To make the dataset more widely accessible, we translate
the original Chinese dataset into English using the ChatGPT
API. It is important to ensure that the annotated knowledge
entities are consistent in the translated dialogs and the knowl-
edge annotations. We first translate the knowledge annota-
tions, and substitute the translated knowledge annotations into
the dialog corpus. The English-Chinese hybrid dialogs are
then sent to ChatGPT and translated into English. We find
that ChatGPT can translate such hybrid data well, meanwhile
maintaining the annotated knowledge entities consistent with
the translated annotations.

5. THE BASELINE SYSTEM

We use RAG-based [7, 16] methods to build our baseline
system. Dialog systems with RAG aim to retrieve relevant
knowledge pieces given the dialog context and generate sys-
tem response using the retrieved knowledge. We take into
consideration multiple important characteristics of the Mo-
bileCS2 dataset to design the baseline system, such as adding
the unique user profile for each user to the knowledge base
and considering multiple relevant knowledge pieces given
context. This makes the baseline system over the Mobil-
leCS2 dataset more suitable for real-life scenarios, which
is different from prior work in knowledge grounded dialog
systems [7, 16].

To introduce the baseline dialog system with RAG on Mo-
bileCS2, we make the following definitions. Assume we have
a dialog X with T turns of user utterances and system re-
sponses, denoted by u1, r1, · · · , uT , rT respectively. For each
dialog, we assume that there is a knowledge base that is nec-

Fig. 2. An example of annotated dialogs.

essary for the system to respond correctly. In MobileCS2, the
knowledge base is made up of the user information, which
is unique for each dialog, the product information list, and
the FAQ list for commonly asked questions. Therefore, for
the dialog X, the knowledge base KBX can be denoted as:
KBX ≜ KBuser ∪ KBF AQ ∪ KBproduct.

At turn t of a dialog X, based on dialog context ct ≜
u1 ⊕ r1 ⊕ · · · ⊕ ut−1 ⊕ rt−1 ⊕ ut (⊕ means sequence con-
catenation) and the knowledge base KBX , the system uses
a retriever, which is shown in Figure 3(a), to get the relevant
knowledge ht from the knowledge base and generates appro-
priate responses with the generator pθ(rt | ct, ht), which is
shown in Figure 3(b).

The retrieval model is implemented with the dual-encoder
architecture, as shown in Figure 3(a). To train the re-
trieval model, we consider each knowledge piece zi (i =
1, 2, · · · , K) in KBX and model the retrieval distribution of
pη(zi | ct) as in [7]:

pη(zi | ct) ∝ exp (cid:0)Encoderp(zi)⊤ Encoderc(ct)(cid:1)

(1)

Encoderp and Encoderc are both initialized with a BERT-
based pretrained model [29]. The probability is optimized
with the standard cross entropy loss, with the positive pieces

Fig. 3. Overview of our baseline systems: (a) the retrieval
model, (b) the generation model.

Table 3. Baseline results for the retrieval task (Track1).

recall@1

recall@5

recall@20

Score

0.225

0.387

0.573

1.185

Table 4. Baseline results for the response generation task
(Track2).

BLEU-4

BERTScore

Inform

Score

14.54

0.639

0.092

0.484

z ∈ Z+ labeled in the dataset:

pη(z | ct)

Lret = −

1
| Z+ |

(cid:88)

log

pη(z | ct) + (cid:80)K

z∈Z+

i=1,zi̸=z pη(zi | ct)
(2)
The knowledge piece encoder Encoderp is fixed during
the training, and the context encoder Encoderc is trained with
the loss in Eq. 2, following the setting in [26].

To train the dialog system pθ(rt | ct, ht), we use the stan-
dard auto-regressive loss to optimize the generation probabil-
ity :

pθ(rt | ct, ht) =

|rt|
(cid:89)

l=1

pθ(yl | ct, ht, y1, . . . , yl−1)

(3)

where | ·| denotes the length in tokens, and yl the l-th token of
rt and pθ is initialized with a GPT-based pretrained lanugae
model [30].

6. EVALUATION

Given a dialog X and its knowledge base KBX , the retrieval
system needs to rank the relevance score for each knowledge
piece in the KBX . We use the commonly used recall met-
rics to assess the retrieval system. To get the recall@k met-
rics, we calculate whether the ground-truth knowledge piece
is in the top-k retrieved knowledge pieces. To comprehen-
sively evaluate the retrieval quality of the system, we calcu-
late the sum of the recall for k = 1, 5, 20 as the final score:
scoreretriever = recall@1 + recall@5 + recall@20. The
evaluation results for the baseline system on the Dev set are
shown in Table 3 3. The results show that it is challenging for
the retriever to achieve high recall even with top-20 retrieved
documents.

To generate the suitable system response, relevant knowl-
edge pieces are first retrieved using the retrieval system.
the generator can
Given the retrieved knowledge pieces,
generate response based on the retrieved knowledge. The
generated response is evaluated by measuring the similarity
score with the ground-truth response (BLEU and BERTScore)
and whether the system correctly provides the requested in-
formation by the user (Inform Rate). BLEU is used to mea-
sure the fluency of the generated responses by analyzing the
amount of n-gram overlap between the real responses and
the generated responses. BERTScore [32] is used to measure
the semantic similarity of the generated responses with the

In-
oracle responses by using a pretrained BERT model.
form Rate refers to how often the system response is able
to cover the requested information by the user. The final
score of the generator is computed as scoregenerator =
0.5 ∗ (BLEU/100 + BERT Score) + Inf orm. The eval-
uation results for the baseline system are shown in Table 4 4.
The Inf orm of the results is relatively low, presumably due
to the low recall@1 score of the retriever and the cascaded
error of the whole system. This shows the difficulty to build a
RAG system that can accurately provide required knowledge
in real-world scenarios.

7. CHALLENGE RULES
Each team should submit the results for the challenge via the
official email before the Entry Submission Deadline. The sub-
mission to the challenge is required to contain a system exe-
cutable with all the dependencies or an encapsulated web ser-
vice to be called, with a clear README documentation for
running the system over the evaluation data. In either man-
ners, the system’s processing speed should be no less than 10
tokens per second. The submission should also provide a Sys-
tem Description Document (SDD), introducing the submitted
system. The organizers of the challenge either run the sys-
tems over a server with Nvidia A100*4 hardware, or call the
web service to evaluate the submitted systems and obtain the
final scores.

8. CONCLUSION

We present the FutureDial-RAG challenge at SLT 2024,
which aims at promoting the study of RAG for dialog sys-
tems. To support the challenge, we build the MobileCS2
dataset, a real-life customer service datasets with over 3000
high-quality dialogs, containing annotations for knowledge
base query and corresponding results. Upon the dataset, we
define two tasks, track 1 for knowledge retrieval and track 2
for response generation, which are core research questions in
dialog systems with RAG. We build baseline systems for the
two tracks and design metrics to measure whether the system
can perform accurate retrieval and generate informative and
coherent response. The baseline results show that it is very
challenging to perform well on the two tasks. We hope that
the dataset and the baseline systems will be helpful to foster
the community to study how to make better use of RAG for
dialog systems.

3We use the BGE [31] model as our backbone. The resulting model is

4We use the Chinese GPT-2 [30] model as our backbone. The resulting

selected based on the Score on the Dev set.

model is selected based on the Score on the Dev set.

9. REFERENCES

[1] Paweł Budzianowski, Tsung-Hsien Wen, Bo-Hsiang
Tseng, Inigo Casanueva, Stefan Ultes, Osman Ramadan,
and Milica Gaˇsi´c,
“Multiwoz–a large-scale multi-
domain wizard-of-oz dataset for task-oriented dialogue
modelling,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.00278, 2018.

[2] Zhijian Ou, Junlan Feng, and Juanzi Li,

“Proceed-
ings of the towards semi-supervised and reinforced task-
in Proceedings
oriented dialog systems (seretod),”
of the Towards Semi-Supervised and Reinforced Task-
Oriented Dialog Systems (SereTOD), 2022.

[3] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al.,
“Training language models to follow instructions with
human feedback,” Advances in neural information pro-
cessing systems, vol. 35, pp. 27730–27744, 2022.

[4] Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo
Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal
Anadkat, et al., “GPT-4 technical report,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.

[5] Zhijian Ou, Junlan Feng, Juanzi Li, Yakun Li, Hong Liu,
Hao Peng, Yi Huang, and Jiangjiang Zhao, “A challenge
on semi-supervised and reinforced task-oriented dialog
systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.02657, 2022.

[6] Hussam Alkaissi and Samy I McFarlane, “Artificial hal-
lucinations in ChatGPT: Implications in scientific writ-
ing,” 2023.

[7] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich
K¨uttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rockt¨aschel,
et al., “Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
intensive nlp tasks,” Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, vol. 33, pp. 9459–9474, 2020.

[8] Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu-
pat, and Ming-Wei Chang, “Realm: retrieval-augmented
in Proceedings of the
language model pre-training,”
37th International Conference on Machine Learning,
2020, pp. 3929–3938.

[9] Samuel Humeau, Kurt Shuster, Marie-Anne Lachaux,
and Jason Weston,
“Poly-encoders: Architectures
and pre-training strategies for fast and accurate multi-
in International Conference on
sentence scoring,”
Learning Representations, 2020.

[10] Gautier Izacard and ´Edouard Grave, “Leveraging pas-
sage retrieval with generative models for open domain

question answering,” in Proceedings of the 16th Con-
ference of the European Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Main Volume, 2021, pp.
874–880.

[11] Kurt Shuster, Jing Xu, Mojtaba Komeili, Da Ju,
Eric Michael Smith, Stephen Roller, Megan Ung, Moya
Chen, Kushal Arora, Joshua Lane, et al.,
“Blender-
bot 3: a deployed conversational agent that contin-
arXiv preprint
ually learns to responsibly engage,”
arXiv:2208.03188, 2022.

[12] Michael Glass, Gaetano Rossiello, Md Faisal Mah-
bub Chowdhury, Ankita Naik, Pengshan Cai, and Alfio
Gliozzo, “Re2g: Retrieve, rerank, generate,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: Human Language Technologies, 2022, pp. 2701–
2715.

[13] Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Se-
bastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin, and
Edouard Grave, “Unsupervised dense information re-
trieval with contrastive learning,” Transactions on Ma-
chine Learning Research, 2022.

[14] Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lucas
Hosseini, Fabio Petroni, Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-
Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard
Grave, “Few-shot learning with retrieval augmented lan-
guage models,” arXiv e-prints, pp. arXiv–2208, 2022.

[15] Kurt Shuster, Mojtaba Komeili, Leonard Adolphs,
Stephen Roller, Arthur Szlam, and Jason Weston, “Lan-
guage models that seek for knowledge: Modular search
& generation for dialogue and prompt completion,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.13224, 2022.

[16] Yucheng Cai, Hong Liu, Zhijian Ou, Yi Huang, and
Junlan Feng, “Knowledge-retrieval task-oriented dia-
log systems with semi-supervision,” in INTERSPEECH,
2023.

[17] Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessi, Roberta
Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke Zettle-
moyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom, “Tool-
former: Language models can teach themselves to use
tools,” in Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, 2023.

[18] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak
Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao, “React:
Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models,”
in International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions (ICLR), 2023.

[28] Yi Huang, Xiaoting Wu, Si Chen, Wei Hu, Qing Zhu,
Junlan Feng, Chao Deng, Zhijian Ou, and Jiangjiang
Zhao, “Cmcc: a comprehensive and large-scale human-
human dataset for dialogue systems,” in Proceedings
of the Towards Semi-Supervised and Reinforced Task-
Oriented Dialog Systems (SereTOD), 2022, pp. 48–61.

[29] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova, “Bert: Pre-training of deep bidi-
rectional transformers for language understanding,” in
Proc. of the Conference of the North American Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-
man Language Technologies, 2019.

[30] Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan,
Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever, “Language models
are unsupervised multitask learners,” OpenAI Blog, vol.
1, no. 8, pp. 9, 2019.

[31] Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu
Lian, and Zheng Liu,
“Bge m3-embedding: Multi-
lingual, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text em-
arXiv
beddings through self-knowledge distillation,”
preprint arXiv:2402.03216, 2024.

[32] Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q
Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi, “Bertscore: Evaluating text
generation with bert,” in International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2019.

[19] Yichi Zhang, Zhijian Ou, Min Hu, and Junlan Feng, “A
probabilistic end-to-end task-oriented dialog model with
latent belief states towards semi-supervised learning,”
in Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP), 2020.

[20] Hong Liu, Yucheng Cai, Zhijian Ou, Yi Huang, and Jun-
lan Feng, “Building Markovian generative architectures
over pretrained LM backbones for efficient task-oriented
dialog systems,” in IEEE Spoken Language Technology
Workshop, 2022.

[21] Yucheng Cai, Hong Liu, Zhijian Ou, Yi Huang, and Jun-
lan Feng, “Advancing semi-supervised task oriented di-
alog systems by JSA learning of discrete latent variable
models,” in Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Meeting of
the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue,
2022, pp. 456–467.

[22] Hong Liu, Yucheng Cai, Zhenru Lin, Zhijian Ou,
Yi Huang, and Junlan Feng, “Variational latent-state
GPT for semi-supervised task-oriented dialog systems,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lan-
guage Processing, 2023.

[23] Tsung-Hsien Wen, David Vandyke, Nikola Mrkˇsi´c, Mil-
ica Gasic, Lina M Rojas Barahona, Pei-Hao Su, Stefan
Ultes, and Steve Young, “A network-based end-to-end
trainable task-oriented dialogue system,” in Proceed-
ings of the 15th Conference of the European Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2017.

[24] Qi Zhu, Kaili Huang, Zheng Zhang, Xiaoyan Zhu, and
Minlie Huang, “Crosswoz: A large-scale chinese cross-
domain task-oriented dialogue dataset,” Transactions of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, vol. 8,
pp. 281–295, 2020.

[25] Hong Liu, Hao Peng, Zhijian Ou, Juanzi Li, Yi Huang,
and Junlan Feng, “Information extraction and human-
robot dialogue towards real-life tasks: A baseline study
with the mobilecs dataset,” in EMNLP 2022 SereTOD
Workshop, 2022.

[26] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen-tau Yih, “Dense passage retrieval for open-domain
question answering,” in Proceedings of the 2020 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing (EMNLP), 2020, pp. 6769–6781.

[27] Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Yingxia Shao, and Zhao
“Retromae: Pre-training retrieval-oriented lan-
Cao,
guage models via masked auto-encoder,” in Proceed-
ings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, 2022, pp. 538–548.