FS-RAG: A Frame Semantics Based Approach for Improved Factual
Accuracy in Large Language Models

Harish Tayyar Madabushi
The University of Bath, Bath, UK
htm43@bath.ac.uk

Abstract

We present a novel extension to Retrieval Aug-
mented Generation with the goal of mitigating
factual inaccuracies in the output of large lan-
guage models. Specifically, our method draws
on the cognitive linguistic theory of frame se-
mantics for the indexing and retrieval of factual
information relevant to helping large language
models answer queries. We conduct experi-
ments to demonstrate the effectiveness of this
method both in terms of retrieval effectiveness
and in terms of the relevance of the frames
and frame relations automatically generated.
Our results show that this novel mechanism
of Frame Semantic-based retrieval, designed
to improve Retrieval Augmented Generation
(FS-RAG), is effective and offers potential for
providing data-driven insights into frame se-
mantics theory. We provide open access to our
program code and prompts1.

1

Introduction, Motivation and Context

Large language models (LLMs), despite their sig-
nificant capabilities and widespread adoption have
the inherent tendency to generate plausible sound-
ing, yet inaccurate, output. This phenomenon, re-
ferred to as “hallucinations,” has been a significant
stumbling block in the widespread deployment of
these solutions (Ji et al., 2023). Hallucinations
themselves are not limited to factual inaccuracies,
and include other modes of failure, including the
incorrect interpretation of input prompts and errors
in logical inference. However, factual hallucina-
tions are particularly important to address as the
retrieval of incorrect facts is particularly hard to re-
cover from and can neutralise and make irrelevant
all other improvements.

The capabilities of LLMs typically improve with
an increase in their “size,” which is a combination

1https://github.com/H-TayyarMadabushi/A-Frame-
Semantics-based-approach-for-Improved-Factual-Accuracy-
in-Large-Language-Models

of a model’s parameters and the size of the pre-
training corpus. Until recently, this was seen by
some as being evidence that further scaling would
eventually address the shortcomings of LLMs, in-
cluding hallucinations. For example, LLMs were
claimed to develop “emergent abilities”: specifi-
cally, it was believed that LLMs, when scaled to
several billion parameters developed capabilities in-
cluding those required to solve tasks requiring rea-
soning in humans, thus indicative that they were de-
veloping reasoning skills (Wei et al., 2022b). More
recent work, however, has shown that this is not the
case and that LLMs instead develop a single capa-
bility, which they leverage to solve tasks (Lu et al.,
2023). This capability, called “in-context learning,”
is, roughly put, the ability of models to solve a par-
ticular task based on a few examples provided in
the prompt (Brown et al., 2020; Chowdhery et al.,
2023). (Lu et al., 2023) further suggest that the
process of instructional fine-tuning LLMs to un-
derstand instructions (Wei et al., 2022a), enables
models to leverage the same “in-context” abilities
even in the absence of examples. This finding indi-
cates that further scaling, while providing improved
instruction following abilities, will not grant modes
the broader capacity to for general reasoning.

The fact that LLMs are not likely to develop the
ability to reason has profound implications to work
on improving them, including to mitigating halluci-
nations. It implies that we must explore alternative
approaches. This is especially the case when it
comes to factual hallucinations as the ‘parametric
memory’ in LLMs is orders of magnitude smaller
than the pre-training data (Ji et al., 2023). As such,
they must necessarily use some method of com-
pressing their pre-training data. Without the ability
to distinguish between the information that is rele-
vant and what is not relevant in their pre-training
data, their method of compression defaults to be
the memorisation of frequent information and the
learning of statistical patterns and trends to repre-

4
2
0
2

n
u
J

3
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
7
6
1
6
1
.
6
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

 
 
 
 
 
 
sent the less frequent information.

1.1 Retrieval Augmented Generation

Given this context, it isn’t surprising that Retrieval
Augmented Generation, or RAG, which involves
the inclusion of relevant information to the prompt
has been so successful (Lewis et al., 2020). It pro-
vides a viable mechanism of offloading information
retrieval (IR) demands and instead focuses on using
the LLM as a mechanism of analysing and process-
ing data based on explicit instructions. It should be
noted that analysing and processing data through
explicit instructions is precisely what models ex-
cel at through in-context learning.
Importantly,
RAG also provides a solution to another of LLMs’
problems, which is the outdating of knowledge.
By incorporating the latest information, RAG pre-
vents the need for further training for even minor
knowledge updates to the LLM which is clearly
infeasible (Shuster et al., 2021).

However, RAG comes with its own shortcom-
ings. RAG transfers the problem of mitigating fac-
tual hallucinations to one of retrieving information
relevant to answering a query (Gao et al., 2024).
While LLMs can handle some noise in the retrieved
context provided, a dramatic increase in noise un-
surprisingly leads to deteriorating performance of
models. The retrieval of information relevant to
answering a query is non-trivial as such informa-
tion is not always likely to be semantically related
to the query. This problem becomes even more
important when the query requires reasoning over
multiple facts each of which are progressively se-
mantically further from the query. Overall, the fact
that logically connected information is not always
semantically similar makes existing keyword and
semantic similarity based search and IR systems
poorly suited for the specific IR requirements of
LLMs.

Existing mechanisms of dealing with this prob-
lem in information retrieval typically involve using
LLMs themselves to solve this problem. Broadly,
there are two ways of doing this: the first involves
the use of LLMs to decompose the query into
sub-queries each of which require less complex
reasoning (Patel et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2023),
and the second involves the use of LLMs to gen-
erate intermediary reasoning steps, called chain of
thought (Wei et al., 2022c), to answer the query.
These intermediary steps are then used to generate
IR search queries and the resultant facts are fed

back to an LLM to generate a response (Shao et al.,
2023). While these methods show some promise,
the problem with them is clear: they are yet an-
other opaque mechanism the failure of which will
be hard to fix. In fact, we might be able to improve
these systems be fine-tuning models to perform
this task. However, such a solution is only going to
further obfuscate the process.

1.2 Contributions

To address these concerns we propose a novel,
transparent, and mutable storage and retrieval sys-
tem for the mitigation of factual hallucinations in
LLMs. This solution is based on theoretical insights
from cognitive linguistics, specifically frame seman-
tics. Specifically, this work makes the following
contributions:

1. We propose a novel, transparent, and mutable
storage and retrieval system for the mitiga-
tion of factual hallucinations in LLMs which
is based on theoretical insights from frame
semantics. We call this system FS-RAG.

2. We show the effectiveness of our method by
experimenting on a closed domain question
answering. Specifically, our method of stor-
age and retrieval provides a significant boost
over both treditional search systems and, sig-
nificantly, also outperforms an LLM based
search system wherein we generate search
terms using a Language Model.

3. We show that our method has the significant
additional advantage of being interpretable,
and thus having the potential to provide data-
driven insights to the theory of frame seman-
tics.

2 Frame Semantics

Given the context provided earlier, it is evident
that only the most frequently occurring factual in-
formation from pre-training is explicitly retained
in LLMs. Less frequently occurring facts are not
explicitly stored and instead the model has access
to only statistical approximations. Given that the
exact information stored is not explicit and also
different for models of different scale and training
regimes, the only way to get around hallucination
is to explicitly provide LLMs with all but the most
common information The effectiveness of RAG
provides an easy mechanism for including such

information. However, as mentioned previously,
the effectiveness of this method hinges on the non-
trivial task of retrieving relevant information.

We propose that this mechanism can be found
in the concept of Frame Semantics in cognitive lin-
guistics, which purportedly facilitate human under-
standing of words by allowing us to recall pertinent
information.

Frame semantics (Fillmore et al., 2006) is a
theory of linguistic meaning that emphasises that
the meanings of words are best understood by the
semantic and conceptual “frames” or “schemas”
within which they function. A frame is a cogni-
tive structure that helps individuals understand and
perceive the world around them, enabling them
to organise knowledge based on typical situations,
actions, or common experiences. In linguistics, a
frame influences how the meanings of words are
interpreted in different contexts. For example, the
word “sell” invokes a commercial transaction frame
involving a seller, a buyer, an item being sold, and
an agreed price and helps to predict and explain
the use of other related words and the roles they
play within the same context. FrameNet (Baker
et al., 1998) is an online database based on frame
semantics, with the goal to catalogue English words
and their associated semantic frames, defining the
various roles and relations in a frame and illustrat-
ing these with example sentences. Each “frame” in
FrameNet captures a specific type of event, relation,
or entity and the roles associated with it. For ex-
ample, the COMMERCE_SELL frame in FrameNet
includes roles for the seller, the buyer, the goods
being sold, and is annotated to be inherited by the
frame RENTING_OUT and as a “perspective on” the
frame COMMERCE_GOODS-TRANSFER.

3 Frame Semantic RAG

This section provides an overview of Frame Se-
mantic RAG (FS-RAG), the proposed mechanism
of storing and indexing factual information to aid
effective retrieval for the mutation of hallucina-
tions in LLMs. In evaluating our mechanism of
retrieval we make use of Entailment Bank, (Dalvi
et al., 2021), which comprises science questions
from school years 4 to 6, along with relevant facts
and “entailment trees”.

Consider Table 1, which presents an example
from the Entailment-Bank dataset. The original
task involves building an entailment tree to answer
questions and consists of three tasks at different lev-

Question

How might eruptions affect
plants?

Associated
Facts

Inference
Steps

eruptions produce ash

F1: eruptions emit lava;
F2:
clouds;
F3: plants have green leaves;
F4: plant producers die without
sunlight;
F5: ash clouds block sunlight.

F2 + F5 implies I1: eruptions
block sunlight;
F4 + I1 implies I2: eruptions can
cause plants to die.

Answer

eruptions can cause plants to die.

Table 1: An example question from Entailment Bank
and associated factoids. Language models find it signifi-
cantly easier to generate the required entailment trees
when presented with all relevant facts. However, the fact
that the retrieval of relevant facts is non-trivial motivates
a frame semantics based mechanism for indexing and
search facts relevant to answering questions.

els of difficulty: a) Task 1 presents the model with
all relevant facts and requires only the construction
of the entailment tree; b) Task 2 requires the model
to perform the same task, but with 15 to 25 distrac-
tors included; c) Task 3 involves first extracting the
relevant facts from the entire corpus before con-
structing the entailment tree. The authors find that
even a relatively small model, T5-11B (Raffel et al.,
2020), can perform relatively well on Tasks 1 and 2,
when fine-tuned. Task 3, they find, is much harder
highlighting the importance of efficient retrieval.
We direct the reader to the results section of (Dalvi
et al., 2021) for details.

Overall, these results reinforce our earlier points:
Retrieval is non-trivial and improving retrieval has
the potential to significantly boost model perfor-
mance.
In the example presented above, using
search terms derived just from the question (e.g.
"eruption") including more complex combinations
(e.g. “eruption and plants”) may not effectively
retrieve relevant information. Additionally, if the
search terms are too broad, it can cause the retrieval
of a significant number of irrelevant facts. Both the
lack of relevant facts and a large number of unre-
lated facts can hinder the model’s performance.

This work is motivated by the hypothesis that

we can significantly narrow the search space if we
index facts–stored as plain text–according to the
frames they invoke and use the frames associated
with the question along with the relations between
frames to retrieve relevant facts. To test our hy-
pothesis, we focus our experiments on the retrieval
of relevant facts.

In the above example, the FrameNet frames asso-
ciated with the question could include: a) SURVIV-
ING, which captures situations requiring endurance
in a dangerous situation and includes annotations of
the frame element “Dangerous_situation”; and b)
CAUSE_HARM, which describes a situation where
an ‘agent’ injures a ‘victim’. Our frame-based
mechanism additionally allows the exploitation of
the relations between frames to traverse the hier-
archical interconnections between frames. This
method approximates reasoning steps, enabling the
retrieval of facts that are logically connected, even
if they are not semantically similar. Within the
limited scope of a single task, this work shows a
significant improvement in retrieval (recall) using
frames when compared to traditional search based
baseline, and when compared to retrieval using
search terms generated by LLMs, thus verifying
the feasibility of this approach. Finally, we use the
adaptability of state of the art LLMs to develop
helper-LLMs that generate sets of frames, which
we then evaluate and compare for their effective-
ness in retrieving relevant information. Expanding
these methods has the potential to provide, for the
first time, data-driven insights that can be used to
refine the theory of frame semantics.

4 Experimental Settings

In this section, we describe the experiments we
conduct to test the hypothesis that frame based
indexing and search is a more effective mechanism
than keyword based indexing.

4.1 Task

Our choice of the specific task is motivated by
the observation that LLMs can perform reasonably
well when provided with relevant facts alongside
some distractors. However, as described in the pre-
vious section, the retrieval of these relevant facts
poses a significant challenge. Therefore, we focus
on the task of retrieving relevant factoids for an-
swering questions in Entailment Bank. Specifically,
we focus on the information extraction subtask re-
quired in Task 3 described in Section 3. Notice that

the effective retrieval of facts would simplify Task
3 to Task 2, the task of building entailment trees
given the relevant facts and some distractors. Given
how effective T5-11B, which, by current standards
consists of relatively few parameters, is on Task 2,
simplifying Task 3 to Task 2 provides a template for
solving tasks based exclusively on retrieved facts,
which would in turn help with the mitigation of
factual hallucinations in LLMs. We slightly mod-
ify Task 3 by constructing the corpus of facts that
we extract from using all the facts required by any
question across the relevant data split, instead of
the complete text book corpus which is harder to
process. Regardless, we evaluate frame semantic
retrieval and the baselines on exactly the same set
of questions and facts to ensure a fair comparison.

4.2 Empirical Evaluation Metrics

Given the nature of our task, we select Retrieval@k
as our evaluation metric. The average length of
entailment trees in the Entailment Bank dataset 7.6
with very few having more than 10. Given that
Task 2 (described previously in Section 3) includes
between 15 and 25 distractors, we test our methods
using Retrieval@k for k ∈ 35, 40, 45. Success
in this setting will demonstrate that our retrieval
mechanism can effectively simplify Task 3, which
requires retrieval from the entire corpus, into Task
2, which involves building entailment trees based
on relevant facts and a few distractors. Recall that
models perform significantly better on Task 2 than
on Task 3.

4.3 Baselines

We use two different baselines to compare the effec-
tiveness of frame semantic indexing and retrieval
against. The first, is a simple keyword match base-
line and is chosen due to our emphasis on inter-
pretability and ease of correction. Being able to
understand why a system retrieves certain facts
enables refinement of the system by reassigning
facts to different clusters or index buckets. This
level of transparency is not possible with more
opaque methods, such as dense vector-based re-
trieval. Since frame semantic retrieval implic-
itly provides interpretable we choose a baseline
that is similarly transparent. We first generate
search terms by feeding the relevant question to
RAKE (Rose et al., 2010), a tool for extracting
search terms, which is known to be effective. We
then perform a simple string match to extract all
factoids that contain the keywords.

The second baseline we use is not directly com-
parable as it is not interpretable. This consists of
using an LLM to generate relevant search terms and
is included so we might compare frame semantic
retrieval to a rough analogue of question decompo-
sition, a standard mechanism used in RAG as de-
scribed above. Both baselines can be boosted using
several techniques. For example, we do not gener-
ate chain of thoughts before generating the search
terms using GPT-4, which is likely to improve the
effectiveness of the resultant search terms. This
is because the purpose of this work is not create a
mechanism that outperforms existing methods, but
to establish the feasibility of the frame semantic
indexing and retrieval process which has the ad-
vantage of being interpretable and being based on
cognitive linguistic theory.

5 Frame Semantic Retrieval: Methods

and Qualitative Analysis

In this section we detail the methods used for frame
semantic indexing and retrieval. Given that one
of objectives is to maintain interpretability and to
to potentially provide data-driven insights to the
theory of frame semantics, we perform a qualitative
analysis of the outputs of each of the stages. An
empirical evaluation of the effectiveness of these
methods is presented next, in Section 6.

The mechanism of retrieving information based
on frame semantics consists of three distinct stages:
The first is a pre-processing step, which involves
indexing all relevant factoids based on between
two and four of the most prominent frames that
they invoke. The second and third steps are per-
formed when answering a question at inference
time and involve identifying the single most im-
portant frame associated with the question (the
question frame), and frames associated with the
question frame, which are likely to be associated
with factoids relevant to answering the original
question but separated by one or more logical steps.
The most important parts of the prompts associated
with each of these steps along with example outputs
are presented in Table 2. The complete prompts,
including prior versions we experimented with, are
included in the supplementary data uploaded with
this paper. In all cases, we prompt GPT-4 (Ope-
nAI et al., 2024) using a temperature of 0 to ensure
reproducible results.

5.1 Frame Identification

There are two difficulties in identifying the frames
associated with facts or questions. The first is the
necessity to define a complete set of frames, and
the second is the linking of these frames to the
relevant fact or question. Our exploratory experi-
ments of using FrameNet as a definitive source of
all frames which we use to compare against facts
and questions from Entailment Bank, showed that
FrameNet is inadequate for this purpose. Specifi-
cally, the approximately 1,200 frames indexed on
FrameNet have two significant shortcomings. The
first is FrameNet’s focus on ‘trigger’ words to iden-
tify frames is problematic. This emphasis on indi-
vidual trigger words, likely influenced by the tools
available at the time of FrameNet’s inception, over-
looks the fact that a sentence, as a whole, might
invoke a frame that is difficult to identify through
trigger words alone, which themselves can be chal-
lenging to extract within sentences. The second is
the fact that the frames available within FrameNet
cover a limited set of domains, which overlap min-
imally with the frames that are appropriate for the
Entailment Bank dataset.

To address these issues, we bootstrap the cre-
ation of frames using an LLM, specifically GPT-4.
We prompt GPT-4 to generate frames relevant to
the input fact or question, allowing us to organi-
cally expand our set of frames. We use in-context
examples, selected from the training set, to enable
the model to better output relevant frames. The
complete prompts, including prior versions we ex-
perimented with, are included in the supplementary
data uploaded with this paper. We start with an
empty ‘frame set’ and iteratively generate frames
associated with facts and questions. For each fact or
question, the frames output by GPT-4 are compared
with the existing frames previously generated (or
none in the initial instances). This comparison is
also done with the help of GPT-4. We first extract
5 frames, whose frame names are most semanti-
cally similar to that of the newly generated frame.
This is done using sentence BERT (Reimers and
Gurevych, 2019), an effective semantic similarity
metric that originally relied on BERT (Devlin et al.,
2019), but now makes use of custom contextual
embeddings. We then prompt GPT-4 to determine
if the newly generated frame must be added to the
frame set.

As an example, GPT-4, when prompted to gener-
ate frames related to the factoid “the gravitational

Task

Prompt

Output Example

Frame Identification

are

Facts
indexed
by the the frames they
invoke
During
Inference,
relevant facts are ex-
tracted based on frames
invoked by the question
and additional frames
that are related.

Check if the new frame
must be added to the
frame set

Used
ence

during

infer-

What is the single/two most important frame,
based on the theory of frame semantics, rel-
evant for answering the question/fact below.
Do not include frames about answering ques-
tions or reasoning, that is implied. Do not in-
clude frames which are metaphorical. Ensure
the the name of the frame is as descriptive
as possible. Output a single frame and join
words in the frame by underscores. Output
nothing but the name of the frame.
Question 1: How does the appearance of a
constellation change during the night?
Answer 1: celestial_motion
. . .
Problem:
Question Problem: <QUESTION>
Answer Problem:

The following question has been tagged with
the single frame listed. Is this frame signif-
icantly different from existing frames listed
and should it be added as a new frame? Re-
spond with True if it is significantly differ-
ent otherwise False. Respond with True and
False only.
Example Question: From Earth, the Sun ap-
pears brighter than any other star because the
Sun is the
Example Tagged Frame:proximity
Example Existing Frames 2:
TIAL_MOTION
Example Answer: True
. . .
Question Problem: <INPUT QUESTION>
Tagged Frame Problem: <INPUT NEW
FRAME>
Existing Frames Problem: <INPUT EXIST-
ING FRAME>
Answer Problem:

CELES-

Identifying
Relations

Frame

Used
ence

during

infer-

Listed below is a single frame relevant to a
question. List those frames which are most
likely to be associated with the facts required
for answer this question. These frames are
based on the theory of frame semantics.
include frames about answering
Do not
questions or reasoning, that is implied. Do
not include frames which are metaphorical.
[. . . ]
Example Question 1: Stars are organized
into patterns called constellations. One
constellation is named Leo. Which statement
best explains why Leo appears in different
areas of the sky throughout the year?
Example Question
TIAL_MOTION
Example
Output
STELLATION_CLASSIFICATION,
STAR_CLASSIFICATION,
TIAL_MOTION
Problem Question : <QUESTION>
Problem Question Frame : <FRAME>
Problem Output Frames:

Frames:

CELES-

CELES-

Frame:

CON-

Input Question: Tides, such as those along
the coast of Massachusetts, are caused by
gravitational attractions acting on Earth.
Why is the gravitational attraction of the
Moon a greater factor in determining tides
than the gravitational attraction of the much
larger Sun?
Output
Frame:
TIONAL_INFLUENCE

GRAVITA-

SEA-

Frame

Assigned:

Input Question:Melinda learned that days
in some seasons have more daylight hours
than in other seasons. Which season receives
the most hours of sunlight in the Northern
Hemisphere?
Input
SONAL_VARIATION_IN_DAYLIGHT
Frames:
Input
of
List
SEA-
DAYLIGHT_VARIATION,
SEA-
SONAL_ADAPTATION,
SONAL_BEHAVIOR, SEASONAL_CHANGE,
SEASONAL_VARIATION
Output
SONAL_VARIATION_IN_DAYLIGHT
Frame Set?): False
Action Taken: Question tagged with DAY-
LIGHT_VARIATION

SEA-
to

Existing

(Add

Question

Input Question: Which measurement is best
expressed in light-years?
Input
TANCE_IN_ASTRONOMY
Output set of Frames Related to Question
Frame: CELESTIAL_DISTANCE, ASTRO-
NOMICAL_UNIT, SPATIAL_MEASUREMENT

Frame:

DIS-

Table 2: Prompts and associated outputs for each step in frame based indexing and retrieval.

pull of the sun on earth’s oceans causes the tides,”
might generate GRAVITATIONAL INFLUENCE and
TIDAL MOVEMENT. These frames are compared
against the existing frames and the frame GRAVI-
TATIONAL INFLUENCE might be replaced by the
similar frame GRAVITATIONAL ATTRACTION al-
ready in our frame set. If a similar frame is not
found, the original frame is added to the frame set.
This same process is then used to generate frames
associated with questions. We find that this method
is sub-optimal and that GPT-4 is a poor judge of
identifying frames which are truly different form
those already in the frame set. As such, we always
augment the original set of frames with five frames
whose names are most semantically similar to the
original. See also Table 2 for more examples.

5.2 Frame Relations

We call the overlap between the frames invoked by
a question and those invoked by the facts neces-
sary for answering that question a first-order frame
overlap. This first-order overlap is not sufficient to
extracting all facts that are relevant to answering a
question. As such, we require a means of identify-
ing relations between frames, so we can expand the
set of relevant frames to include those which are
related to the original, as a proxy for the reasoning
process. This is in addition to the expansion using
semantic similarity described previously.

Instead of importing definitions of frame re-
lations, for example from FrameNet, we gener-
ate these relations using a data-driven approach.
Specifically, we extract questions and associated
facts from the training data. We then assign frames
to both the questions and the facts using the meth-
ods described previously. The frames associated
with the questions and the corresponding facts are
assumed to hold a latent relation, which we use
to generate similar frame relations at the time of
answering questions. This is done by prompting
GPT-4 with the relevant question and the frame
associated with the frame and requiring GPT-4 to
generate frames relevant to answering the question.
Row three of Table 2 presents the prompt and an
example output of this step.

5.3 Qualitative Analysis

A qualitative analysis of resultant frames and frame
relations demonstrate the surprising effectiveness
of this method. Table 2 presents some of the frames
and frame relations automatically generated using
the methods described above. The results are far

from perfect, but are interesting from the perspec-
tives of the diversity and adaptability they present.
It is important to note that these results are achieved
though prompting alone. Given that LLMs, such
as GPT-4, are unlikely to be designed to solve
tasks such as this, it is not surprising that there is
much room for improvement, although the results
demonstrate the feasibility of this method. Overall,
we believe that bootstrapping these methods–by
first manually refining a dataset generated through
prompting, then iteratively training models specif-
ically for this task, and subsequently using that
model to generate more data–is an effective way to
scale these methods.

6 Empirical Evaluation

In addition to the qualitative analysis we present
an empirical evaluation of the frame semantic re-
trieval methods described above. We compare the
performance of frame semantic retrieval to the two
search based baselines described in Section 4.3. We
present the results in Table 3. Overall, we find that
frame semantic retrieval outperforms both the sim-
ple search based baseline and the baseline where
search terms are generated using GPT-4 by a signif-
icant margin. Recall that we test our methods using
Retrieval@k for k ∈ 35, 40, 45 to take into account
the fact that this allows us to demonstrate that our
retrieval mechanism can effectively simplify Task
3, which requires retrieval from the entire corpus,
into Task 2, which involves building entailment
trees based on relevant facts and a few distractors.
While our results are not perfect, frame semantic
indexing and retrieval has one significant advan-
tage. It is the fact that each stage of the process can
be improved by fine-tuning LLMs for the specific
purpose. In addition, the transparent nature of this
process, which outputs frames at each stage, allows
for the analysis and ‘debugging’ of each stage.

7 Conclusions and Future Work

This work presents a novel mechanism for the in-
dexing and retrieval of facts relevant for answer-
ing specific questions with the purpose of miti-
gating factual hallucinations in LLMs. This work
demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness of
this method in both retrieval and the automatic gen-
eration of frames which, when scaled to multiple
tasks, has the potential to provide data-driven in-
sights to the theory of Frame Semantics.

We believe that this work provides a template

Recall@

@35
@40
@45

RAKE Search
(Baseline 1)
0.330
0.333
0.338

GPT-4 Search
(Baseline 2)
0.385
0.390
0.396

Frame Semantic Retrieval
(our method)
0.439
0.464
0.473

Table 3: Recall at k between 35 and 45 comparing frame semantic retrieval to search based retrieval where the
search terms are generated using a traditional keyword based method (RAKE) and using GPT-4. It is notable that
frame semantic retrieval performs significantly better than both baselines across all selected values of k.

for effectively integrating cognitive linguistics and
LLM research, benefiting both fields. In future
work, we intend to first create models that are
specifically fine-tuned to perform each of the tasks
described above, specifically frame generation,
frame identification and frame relation identifica-
tion. In addition, we indent to extend this work to
multiple tasks so as to establish its effectiveness.

Limitations

This work presents a novel method of indexing
and retrieval of facts specifically for the purpose
of ensuring that LLMs reason over retrieved, and
therefore correct facts, thereby mitigating factual
hallucinations in LLMs. Our experiments are based
on a single task in a specific domain. As a proof
of concept of a novel method that is based on cog-
nitive linguistic theory, these experiments are ef-
fective in showcasing the feasibility of this method.
However, demonstrating the effectiveness of this
method on multiple tasks is required for a more
rigorous test, which we leave to future work. Addi-
tionally, our experiments, however, do not extend
to testing LLMs for reduced hallucinations – prior
work implies that improved retrieval will indeed
lead to reduced hallucinations, but it is left to future
work to rigorously test this.

References

Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B. Lowe.
1998. The Berkeley FrameNet project. In 36th An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and 17th International Conference on
Computational Linguistics, Volume 1, pages 86–90,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.

Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss,
Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child,
Aditya Ramesh, Daniel Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens

Winter, Chris Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Ma-
teusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack
Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec
Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020.
In Ad-
Language models are few-shot learners.
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 33, pages 1877–1901. Curran Associates,
Inc.

Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin,
Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts,
Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton,
Sebastian Gehrmann, Parker Schuh, Kensen Shi,
Sasha Tsvyashchenko, Joshua Maynez, Abhishek
Rao, Parker Barnes, Yi Tay, Noam Shazeer, Vin-
odkumar Prabhakaran, Emily Reif, Nan Du, Ben
Hutchinson, Reiner Pope, James Bradbury, Jacob
Austin, Michael Isard, Guy Gur-Ari, Pengcheng Yin,
Toju Duke, Anselm Levskaya, Sanjay Ghemawat,
Sunipa Dev, Henryk Michalewski, Xavier Garcia,
Vedant Misra, Kevin Robinson, Liam Fedus, Denny
Zhou, Daphne Ippolito, David Luan, Hyeontaek Lim,
Barret Zoph, Alexander Spiridonov, Ryan Sepassi,
David Dohan, Shivani Agrawal, Mark Omernick, An-
drew M. Dai, Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pil-
lai, Marie Pellat, Aitor Lewkowycz, Erica Moreira,
Rewon Child, Oleksandr Polozov, Katherine Lee,
Zongwei Zhou, Xuezhi Wang, Brennan Saeta, Mark
Diaz, Orhan Firat, Michele Catasta, Jason Wei, Kathy
Meier-Hellstern, Douglas Eck, Jeff Dean, Slav Petrov,
and Noah Fiedel. 2023. Palm: Scaling language mod-
eling with pathways. Journal of Machine Learning
Research, 24(240):1–113.

Bhavana Dalvi, Peter Jansen, Oyvind Tafjord, Zhengnan
Xie, Hannah Smith, Leighanna Pipatanangkura, and
Peter Clark. 2021. Explaining answers with entail-
ment trees. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, pages 7358–7370, Online and Punta Cana, Do-
minican Republic. Association for Computational
Linguistics.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language under-
standing. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages
4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

Charles J Fillmore et al. 2006. Frame semantics. Cog-

nitive linguistics: Basic readings, 34:373–400.

Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia,
Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, Meng Wang,
and Haofen Wang. 2024. Retrieval-augmented gen-
eration for large language models: A survey.

Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan
Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii, Ye Jin Bang, Andrea
Madotto, and Pascale Fung. 2023. Survey of halluci-
nation in natural language generation. ACM Comput.
Surv., 55(12).

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020.
Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
In Advances in Neural Infor-
intensive nlp tasks.
mation Processing Systems, volume 33, pages 9459–
9474. Curran Associates, Inc.

Sheng Lu, Irina Bigoulaeva, Rachneet Sachdeva, Har-
ish Tayyar Madabushi, and Iryna Gurevych. 2023.
Are emergent abilities in large language models just
in-context learning?

OpenAI, Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal,
Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Ale-
man, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Alt-
man, Shyamal Anadkat, Red Avila, Igor Babuschkin,
Suchir Balaji, Valerie Balcom, Paul Baltescu, Haim-
ing Bao, Mohammad Bavarian, Jeff Belgum, Ir-
wan Bello, Jake Berdine, Gabriel Bernadett-Shapiro,
Christopher Berner, Lenny Bogdonoff, Oleg Boiko,
Madelaine Boyd, Anna-Luisa Brakman, Greg Brock-
man, Tim Brooks, Miles Brundage, Kevin Button,
Trevor Cai, Rosie Campbell, Andrew Cann, Brittany
Carey, Chelsea Carlson, Rory Carmichael, Brooke
Chan, Che Chang, Fotis Chantzis, Derek Chen, Sully
Chen, Ruby Chen, Jason Chen, Mark Chen, Ben
Chess, Chester Cho, Casey Chu, Hyung Won Chung,
Dave Cummings, Jeremiah Currier, Yunxing Dai,
Cory Decareaux, Thomas Degry, Noah Deutsch,
Damien Deville, Arka Dhar, David Dohan, Steve
Dowling, Sheila Dunning, Adrien Ecoffet, Atty Eleti,
Tyna Eloundou, David Farhi, Liam Fedus, Niko Felix,
Simón Posada Fishman, Juston Forte, Isabella Ful-
ford, Leo Gao, Elie Georges, Christian Gibson, Vik
Goel, Tarun Gogineni, Gabriel Goh, Rapha Gontijo-
Lopes, Jonathan Gordon, Morgan Grafstein, Scott
Gray, Ryan Greene, Joshua Gross, Shixiang Shane
Gu, Yufei Guo, Chris Hallacy, Jesse Han, Jeff Harris,
Yuchen He, Mike Heaton, Johannes Heidecke, Chris
Hesse, Alan Hickey, Wade Hickey, Peter Hoeschele,
Brandon Houghton, Kenny Hsu, Shengli Hu, Xin
Hu, Joost Huizinga, Shantanu Jain, Shawn Jain,
Joanne Jang, Angela Jiang, Roger Jiang, Haozhun
Jin, Denny Jin, Shino Jomoto, Billie Jonn, Hee-
woo Jun, Tomer Kaftan, Łukasz Kaiser, Ali Ka-
mali, Ingmar Kanitscheider, Nitish Shirish Keskar,
Tabarak Khan, Logan Kilpatrick, Jong Wook Kim,
Christina Kim, Yongjik Kim, Jan Hendrik Kirch-
ner, Jamie Kiros, Matt Knight, Daniel Kokotajlo,

Łukasz Kondraciuk, Andrew Kondrich, Aris Kon-
stantinidis, Kyle Kosic, Gretchen Krueger, Vishal
Kuo, Michael Lampe, Ikai Lan, Teddy Lee, Jan
Leike, Jade Leung, Daniel Levy, Chak Ming Li,
Rachel Lim, Molly Lin, Stephanie Lin, Mateusz
Litwin, Theresa Lopez, Ryan Lowe, Patricia Lue,
Anna Makanju, Kim Malfacini, Sam Manning, Todor
Markov, Yaniv Markovski, Bianca Martin, Katie
Mayer, Andrew Mayne, Bob McGrew, Scott Mayer
McKinney, Christine McLeavey, Paul McMillan,
Jake McNeil, David Medina, Aalok Mehta, Jacob
Menick, Luke Metz, Andrey Mishchenko, Pamela
Mishkin, Vinnie Monaco, Evan Morikawa, Daniel
Mossing, Tong Mu, Mira Murati, Oleg Murk, David
Mély, Ashvin Nair, Reiichiro Nakano, Rajeev Nayak,
Arvind Neelakantan, Richard Ngo, Hyeonwoo Noh,
Long Ouyang, Cullen O’Keefe, Jakub Pachocki, Alex
Paino, Joe Palermo, Ashley Pantuliano, Giambat-
tista Parascandolo, Joel Parish, Emy Parparita, Alex
Passos, Mikhail Pavlov, Andrew Peng, Adam Perel-
man, Filipe de Avila Belbute Peres, Michael Petrov,
Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Michael, Poko-
rny, Michelle Pokrass, Vitchyr H. Pong, Tolly Pow-
ell, Alethea Power, Boris Power, Elizabeth Proehl,
Raul Puri, Alec Radford, Jack Rae, Aditya Ramesh,
Cameron Raymond, Francis Real, Kendra Rimbach,
Carl Ross, Bob Rotsted, Henri Roussez, Nick Ry-
der, Mario Saltarelli, Ted Sanders, Shibani Santurkar,
Girish Sastry, Heather Schmidt, David Schnurr, John
Schulman, Daniel Selsam, Kyla Sheppard, Toki
Sherbakov, Jessica Shieh, Sarah Shoker, Pranav
Shyam, Szymon Sidor, Eric Sigler, Maddie Simens,
Jordan Sitkin, Katarina Slama, Ian Sohl, Benjamin
Sokolowsky, Yang Song, Natalie Staudacher, Fe-
lipe Petroski Such, Natalie Summers, Ilya Sutskever,
Jie Tang, Nikolas Tezak, Madeleine B. Thompson,
Phil Tillet, Amin Tootoonchian, Elizabeth Tseng,
Preston Tuggle, Nick Turley, Jerry Tworek, Juan Fe-
lipe Cerón Uribe, Andrea Vallone, Arun Vijayvergiya,
Chelsea Voss, Carroll Wainwright, Justin Jay Wang,
Alvin Wang, Ben Wang, Jonathan Ward, Jason Wei,
CJ Weinmann, Akila Welihinda, Peter Welinder, Ji-
ayi Weng, Lilian Weng, Matt Wiethoff, Dave Willner,
Clemens Winter, Samuel Wolrich, Hannah Wong,
Lauren Workman, Sherwin Wu, Jeff Wu, Michael
Wu, Kai Xiao, Tao Xu, Sarah Yoo, Kevin Yu, Qim-
ing Yuan, Wojciech Zaremba, Rowan Zellers, Chong
Zhang, Marvin Zhang, Shengjia Zhao, Tianhao
Zheng, Juntang Zhuang, William Zhuk, and Barret
Zoph. 2024. Gpt-4 technical report.

Pruthvi Patel, Swaroop Mishra, Mihir Parmar, and
Chitta Baral. 2022. Is a question decomposition unit
all we need? In Proceedings of the 2022 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 4553–4569, Abu Dhabi, United
Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.

Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2020. Exploring the limits
of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text trans-
former. J. Mach. Learn. Res., 21(1).

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-
BERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERT-
networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natu-
ral Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
3982–3992, Hong Kong, China. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.

Stuart Rose, Dave Engel, Nick Cramer, and Wendy
Cowley. 2010. Automatic keyword extraction from
individual documents. Text mining: applications and
theory, pages 1–20.

Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Minlie
Huang, Nan Duan, and Weizhu Chen. 2023. En-
hancing retrieval-augmented large language models
with iterative retrieval-generation synergy. In Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: EMNLP 2023, pages 9248–9274, Singapore.
Association for Computational Linguistics.

Kurt Shuster, Spencer Poff, Moya Chen, Douwe Kiela,
and Jason Weston. 2021. Retrieval augmentation
reduces hallucination in conversation. In Findings
of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2021, pages 3784–3803, Punta Cana, Do-
minican Republic. Association for Computational
Linguistics.

Jason Wei, Maarten Bosma, Vincent Zhao, Kelvin Guu,
Adams Wei Yu, Brian Lester, Nan Du, Andrew M.
Dai, and Quoc V Le. 2022a. Finetuned language
models are zero-shot learners. In International Con-
ference on Learning Representations.

Jason Wei, Yi Tay, Rishi Bommasani, Colin Raffel,
Barret Zoph, Sebastian Borgeaud, Dani Yogatama,
Maarten Bosma, Denny Zhou, Donald Metzler, Ed H.
Chi, Tatsunori Hashimoto, Oriol Vinyals, Percy
Liang, Jeff Dean, and William Fedus. 2022b. Emer-
gent abilities of large language models. Transactions
on Machine Learning Research. Survey Certifica-
tion.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, brian ichter, Fei Xia, Ed H. Chi, Quoc V Le,
and Denny Zhou. 2022c. Chain of thought prompt-
ing elicits reasoning in large language models. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.

Denny Zhou, Nathanael Schärli, Le Hou, Jason Wei,
Nathan Scales, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans,
Claire Cui, Olivier Bousquet, Quoc V Le, and Ed H.
Chi. 2023. Least-to-most prompting enables com-
In The
plex reasoning in large language models.
Eleventh International Conference on Learning Rep-
resentations.