Enhancing Retrieval and Managing Retrieval:
A Four-Module Synergy for Improved Quality and
Efficiency in RAG Systems
Yunxiao Shia, Xing Zia, Zijing Shia, Haimin Zhanga, Qiang Wua and Min Xua,*

aUniversity of Technology Sydney, Broadway, Sydney, 2007, NSW, Australia.

4
2
0
2

l
u
J

5
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
0
7
6
0
1
.
7
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) techniques lever-
age the in-context learning capabilities of large language models
(LLMs) to produce more accurate and relevant responses. Originat-
ing from the simple ’retrieve-then-read’ approach, the RAG frame-
work has evolved into a highly flexible and modular paradigm. A
critical component, the Query Rewriter module, enhances knowl-
edge retrieval by generating a search-friendly query. This method
aligns input questions more closely with the knowledge base. Our
research identifies opportunities to enhance the Query Rewriter mod-
ule to Query Rewriter+ by generating multiple queries to over-
come the Information Plateaus associated with a single query and
by rewriting questions to eliminate Ambiguity, thereby clarifying
the underlying intent. We also find that current RAG systems ex-
hibit issues with Irrelevant Knowledge; to overcome this, we pro-
pose the Knowledge Filter. These two modules are both based on
the instructional-tuned Gemma-2B model, which together enhance
response quality. The final identified issue is Redundant Retrieval;
we introduce the Memory Knowledge Reservoir and the Retriever
Trigger to solve this. The former supports the dynamic expansion
of the RAG system’s knowledge base in a parameter-free manner,
while the latter optimizes the cost for accessing external knowl-
edge, thereby improving resource utilization and response efficiency.
These four RAG modules synergistically improve the response qual-
ity and efficiency of the RAG system. The effectiveness of these
modules has been validated through experiments and ablation studies
across six common QA datasets. The source code can be accessed at
https://github.com/Ancientshi/ERM4.

1

Introduction

Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a significant leap in ar-
tificial intelligence, with breakthroughs in generalization and adapt-
ability across diverse tasks [4, 6]. However, challenges such as hal-
lucinations [32], temporal misalignments [27], context processing
issues [1], and fine-tuning inefficiencies [8] have raised significant
concerns about their reliability. In response, recent research has fo-
cused on enhancing LLMs’ capabilities by integrating them with ex-
ternal knowledge sources through Retrieval-Augmented Generation
(RAG) [2, 20, 13, 15]. This approach significantly improves LLMs’
ability to answer questions more accurately and contextually.

The basic RAG system comprises a knowledge retrieval mod-
ule and a read module, forming the retrieve-then-read pipeline

[20, 15, 13]. However, this vanilla pipeline has low retrieval qual-
ity and produces unreliable answers. To transcend this, more ad-
vanced RAG modules have been developed and integrated into the
basic pipeline. For example, the Query Rewriter module acts as a
bridge between the input question and the retrieval module. Instead
of directly using the original question as the query text, it gener-
ates a new query that better facilitates the retrieval of relevant infor-
mation. This enhancement forms the Rewrite-Retrieve-Read pipeline
[23, 22]. Furthermore, models like RETA-LLM [22] and RARR [10]
integrate a post-reading and fact-checking component to further so-
lidify the reliability of responses. Additional auxiliary modules such
as the query router [21] and the resource ranker 1 [14] have also been
proposed to be integrated into the RAG’s framework to improve the
practicality in complex application scenario. This integration of var-
ious modules into the RAG pipeline leading to the emergence of a
modular RAG paradigm [11], transforming the RAG framework into
a highly flexible system.

Despite significant advancements, several unresolved deficiencies
persist in practical applications. In the Query Rewriter module, the
reliance on generating a single query for retrieval leads to (1) Infor-
mation Plateau, as this unidirectional search method limits the scope
of retrievable information. Besides, the frequent misalignment be-
tween the input question and the underlying inquiry intent often exac-
erbated by (2) ambiguous phrasing, significantly impedes the LLM’s
accurately interpreting users’ demand. Furthermore, while the Query
Rewriter can facilitate the retrieval of relevant information, it cannot
guarantee the accuracy of the retrieved information. The extensive re-
trieval process may also acquire (3) irrelevant knowledge, which de-
tracts from the response quality by introducing noise into the context.
At last, we have identified a phenomenon of (4) redundant retrieval,
where users pose questions similar to previous inquiries, causing the
RAG system to fetch the same external information repeatedly. This
redundancy severely compromises the efficiency of the RAG system.
These deficiencies underscore the potential for enhancing the ac-
curacy and efficiency of existing RAG framework, thereby guiding
our investigative efforts to address these issues. We decompose the
Query Rewriter module’s functionality into two subtasks, resulting in
the upgraded module Query Rewriter+. The first subtask involves

∗ Corresponding author with email: Min.Xu@uts.edu.au.

1 https://txt.cohere.com/rerank/

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Flowchart depicting the integration of four modules into the basic Retrieve-then-Read (green) pipeline to enhance quality (orange)
and efficiency (purple). Blue text represents cached knowledge retrieved from the Memory Knowledge Reservoir, while orange text indicates
externally retrieved knowledge.

crafting nuanced, multi-faceted queries for improving the compre-
hensive search of relevant information. The second subtask is rewrit-
ing the input text into a more intention-clear question. Given that
both subtasks can be conceptualized as text-to-text task, we have de-
signed them to be executed concurrently for high efficiency. This is
achieved through parameter-efficient fine-tuning of the Gemma-2B
model, serving as the backbone of the Query Rewriter+. The model
is trained on a meticulously constructed supervised dataset, enabling
it to efficiently generate both appropriate queries and rewritten ques-
tion from an original input text. To address the issue of retrieving
irrelevant knowledge, we introduce the Knowledge Filter module,
which performs the Natural Language Inference (NLI) task to sift
through retrieved information and assess its relevance. This NLI
model is also based on Gemma-2B and fine-tuned on a carefully de-
signed dataset. The synergistic use of these two modules demonstra-
bly enhances the accuracy of RAG responses across various datasets.
To address the issue of redundant retrieval, we introduce the
Memory Knowledge Reservoir, a non-parametric module that en-
hances the RAG system’s knowledge base through a caching mecha-
nism. This module facilitates rapid information retrieval for recurring
queries, thereby eliminating redundant external knowledge search.
To avoid the situation that the retrieved cached information is insuffi-
cient, we design the Retrieval Trigger, which employs a simple and
effective calibration-based approach, to determine whether to engage
external knowledge retrieval.

These four modular advancements work synergistically to enhance
the RAG framework, significantly improving the accuracy and effi-

ciency of responses. The integration and functionality of our pro-
posed modules within the RAG system are illustrated in Figure 1. In
summary, our main contributions are as follows:

• We highlight the significance of clarifying input text and gen-
erating various queries, which informs the propose of Query
Rewriter+. Furthermore, Knowledge Filter module is introduced
to mitigate irrelevant knowledge issue. The synergistic operation
of these two modules consistently enhances the response accuracy
of RAG systems.

• We pinpoint the problem of redundant retrieval within the current
RAG system. To address this efficiency concern, we introduce the
Memory Knowledge Reservoir and the Retrieval Trigger module.
• Empirical evaluations and ablation studies across six QA datasets
demonstrate the superior response accuracy and enhanced effi-
ciency of our methods. Overall, our approach yields a 5%-10%
increase in correctly hitting the target answers compared to direct
inquiry. For historically similar questions, our method reduces the
response time by 46% without compromising the response quality.

2 Motivation

In this section, we empirically investigate several preliminary studies
to highlight the limitations of current RAG systems in Open-Domain
QA tasks.

• PS 1: We investigate the maximum amount of relevant informa-
tion that can be retrieved by converting input text into a single

Rewritten Question: Which artist provides backing vocals and plays the piano on the track 'One of These Nights’?Queries Need Retrieval: q3. One of These Nights.Original Question: Who sings backing vocals with piano on one of these nights, the song?Response: On the song "One of These Nights" by the Eagles, the piano is played by Glen Frey.Question Rewriter+Queries: q1. Backing vocals performer on 'One of These Nights' song. q2. Pianist accompanying 'One of These Nights' song. q3. One of These Nights.Retrieval TriggerKnowledge RetrieverExternal Knowledge: k7. One of These Nights - Wikipedia: One of These Nights is the fourth studio album … k8. Who wrote one of these nights?: Was written by Don Henley and Glenn Frey…LLM ReaderResponse [“Glenn Frey”]Memory Knowledge ReservoirMemory Knowledge Base {Title}: {Content}Filtered Knowledge: k1, k3, k7 …Knowledge FilterQueries Within Knowledge Boundary: q1: k1, k2, k3 … q2: k4, k5, k6 …VSUpdateEntailContradictNeuralsearch-friendly query.

• PS 2: We examine whether using multiple queries that focus on
different detailed semantic aspects can retrieve more relevant in-
formation than a single query.

• PS 3: We analyze how the proportion of irrelevant information

changes as the volume of retrieved data increases.

• PS 4: We assess whether clarifying the input question is unneces-
sary for LLMs with strong semantic understanding capabilities.

Experimental Settings. The experiment is conducted using a ran-
domly selected subset of 50 questions from each of the following
datasets: PopQA [24], 2WikiMQA [30], HotpotQA [31], and CAm-
bigNQ [19]. We employ the Rewrite-Retrieve-Read RAG pipeline,
and the rewriter follows the LLM-based method, specifically uti-
lizes GPT-3.5-turbo-0613, more details are described in previous
study [23]. The rewriter module is designed to generate one to three
variable-length queries for each question, depending on the ques-
tion’s complexity. For retrieval, we use Bing Search V7 to identify
the top 10 most relevant webpage snippets for each query. These
snippets encapsulate the most query-related content from each web-
page. For each question, a collection of retrieved snippets serves as
the external knowledge to facilitate the LLM’s in-context learning
for generating response. We create two ways to present the snippets:
Sequential Order, with snippets for each query following one an-
other, and Mix Order, with top snippets evenly sampled from dif-
ferent queries. We increase the number of snippets to see how re-
trieval performance changes in two different snippet arrangements.
The evaluation metrics are Answer Recall, which is the ratio of an-
swer items found in the external knowledge to the total number of an-
swer items, and Snippet Precision, which is the ratio of snippets con-
taining any answer item to the total number of snippets used. These
metrics provide a quantitative measure of retrieval performance. The
experimental results are illustrated in Figure 2.

We conduct another experiment using 50 questions from the CAm-
bigNQ dataset. We obtain responses by directly inputting the origi-
nal questions into the LLM, labeled as org. Another set of responses,
labeled as rewrt, is generated by inputting rewritten questions into
the LLM. The accuracy of these two sets of responses is quanti-
fied using the metrics: EM (Exact Match), Precision, Recall, and F1
Score. Additionally, we also use retrieval-enhanced method to gener-
ate answers again. These responses are labeled as org_rag for orig-
inal questions and rewrt_rag for rewritten questions. A comparative
analysis of the answer accuracy is conducted in the same manner.
These results are illustrated in Figure 3.

PS1: The Information Plateaus of Single Query. From the analysis
of Answer Recall in sequential order, it is observed that as the num-
ber of snippets increases, the Answer Recall metric improves, but
they commonly plateauing before reaching 10 and 20 snippets (red
dashed line). This phenomenon indicates there exist an upper limit
to the retrievable useful information of a single query. This suggests
there is a threshold beyond which additional information retrieved
by the same query does not contribute too much to better retrieval
quality.
PS2: The Effect of Using Multiple Queries. The analysis of An-

Figure 2: PS1 & PS2. Analysis of Information Plateaus in Retrieving
Knowledge and Overcoming the Bottlenecks with New Queries.

Figure 3: PS3. Evaluating the Impact of Rewriting Question for
Q&A.

swer Recall in Sequence Order indicates that introducing fresh snip-
pets from new queries effectively mitigates plateauing in Answer
Recall (light purple solid line). Additionally, the Answer Recall in
Mixed Order consistently outperforms that in Sequence Order at the
same snippet number (purple solid line), particularly when the num-
ber has not yet reached the maximum retrievable information limit
(30 snippets). This underscores the significance of multiple queries
in enhancing retrieval quality.
PS3: The Low Relevance of Retrieved Information. As shown
in Figure 2, Snippet Precision notably decreases as the number of
snippets increases, eventually stabilizing. This suggests a significant
presence of retrieved external knowledge snippets that do not contain
relevant answer information.
PS4: The Effect of Rewriting Questions. Figure 3 presents a bar
graph comparing various metrics for original and rewritten ques-
tions in the CAmbigNQ dataset. Rewriting questions improves Ex-
act Match (EM), Precision, and F1 Score—whether or not retrieval
augmentation technique is used. However, the recall decreases with
rewritten questions. This occurs because the CAmbigNQ dataset la-
bels include all possible answers, and LLMs tend to provide all pos-
sible responses to vague questions. The Rewritten questions are more
well-intended, prompting LLMs to generate specific answers.
Summary. Based on above results from a series of experiments on

various datasets, our findings reveal that: (1) single query have an in-
herent upper limit of retrievable relevant information; (2) employing
multiple queries that focus on different semantic aspects can surpass
the information plateau, enhancing both the precision and recall of
information retrieval; (3) The phenomenon of irrelevant knowledge
is pervasive in RAG and becomes more pronounced with larger vol-
umes of retrieved external information; and (4) rewriting ambiguous
questions into intent-specific questions improves the precision of re-
sponses.

out irrelevant knowledge. Rather than directly querying an LLM to
identify noise, we incorporate a Natural Language Inference (NLI)
framework [3] for this purpose. Specifically, for a rewritten ques-
tion s and retrieved knowledge k, the NLI task evaluates whether
the knowledge (as the premise) contains reliable answers, or useful
information aiding the response to the question (as the hypothesis).
This results in a judgment j categorized as entailment, contradiction,
or neutral. The operation of the Knowledge Filter can be mathemati-
cally represented as:

3 Methodology
3.1 Question Rewriter+

The design of the Question Rewriter+ module encompasses two pri-
mary functions: (1) enhancing the original question semantically
into a rewritten question, and (2) generating multiple search-friendly
queries. Formally, the Question Rewriter+ is denoted as Gθ(·), which
takes an original question p as input:

Gθ(p) → (s, Q)

the

where s represents

rewritten question and Q =
{q1, q2, · · · , q|Q|} is the set of generated queries. A basic im-
plementation of Gθ(·) can adopt a prompt-based strategy, utilizing
task descriptions, the original question, and exemplars to prompt
black-box large language models. This approach capitalizes on the
model’s in-context learning capabilities, often yields effectiveness
of question rewriting and query generation. Nevertheless, the effec-
tiveness of this methodology is highly dependent on the meticulous
construction of prompts tailored to specific domain datasets, which
limits its general utility. Besides, the generated s and Q may be of
low quality, failing to enhance RAG performance.

To address these limitations, we propose a more general and task-
specific approach. This involves parameter-efficient LoRA [12] fine-
tuning of the Gemma-2B model for Gθ(·), utilizing a high-quality
dataset that is semi-automatically constructed through LLMs’ gen-
eration and human’s quality validation. This dataset comprises in-
stances (p, s, Q), each rigorously validated to ensure that responses
derived from s are more accurate in hitting the labeled answer com-
pared to those obtained by directly asking the LLM with p. Addi-
tionally, we manually verify the quality of generated queries Q to
ensure the reliability. The prompt template for generating (s, Q) is
as follows:
[Instruction]: Your task is to transform a potentially colloquial
or jargon-heavy [Original Question] into a semantically enhanced
Rewritten Question with a clear intention. Additionally, generating
several search-friendly Queries that can help find relevant infor-
mation for answering the question. You can consider the provided
[Examples] and response following the [Format].
[Original Question]: {User’s original question is here.}
[Examples]: {The examples should be specially tailored for differ-
ent datasets.}
[Format]:
here}**{query1}**{query2}**{query3}...

generated

Rewritten

Question

{The

is

Fθ(s, k) → j ∈ {entailment, contradiction, neutral}

Knowledge is retained if the NLI result is classified as entailment.
We can adjust the strength of the hypothesis based on the specific
dataset. For single-hop questions, a stronger hypothesis can be set,
requiring the knowledge to contain direct and explicit answer in-
formation. Conversely, for more complex multi-hop questions, we
can set a weaker hypothesis, only requiring the knowledge to in-
clude information that possibly aids in answering the question. When
valid knowledge is unavailable, a back-off strategy is invoked, where
LLMs generate responses without the aid of external knowledge aug-
mentation. The Knowledge Filter also employs the LoRA fine-tuning
method [12] on the Gemma-2B model, offering enhanced applicabil-
ity and adaptability compared to prompt-based approaches.

The NLI training dataset is constructed semi-automatically using
the similar method we described in Section 3.1. We provide task in-
struction, rewritten question s, along with knowledge context k as
prompt to GPT-4, which then generated a brief explanation e and
a classification result j, resulting in the data instance ((s, k, (e, j)).
The prompt template is as follows:
[Instruction]: Your task is to solve the NLI problem: given the
premise in [Knowledge] and the hypothesis that "The [Knowledge]
contains reliable answers aiding the response to [Question]". You
should classify the response as entailment, contradiction, or neu-
tral.
[Question]: {Question is here.}
[Knowledge]: {The judging knowledge is here.}
[Format]: {The explanation.}**{The NLI result.}

Considering that LLMs are primarily designed for text regression
rather than classification, using only j as a label for instructional
tuning for Gemma-2B would prevent the LLM from accurately per-
forming classification tasks in a generative manner. Therefore, we
also incorporate the concise explanation e as part of the label, in ad-
dition to the NLI classification result j.

3.3 Memory Knowledge Reservoir

We present a Memory Knowledge Reservoir module designed to
cache the retrieved knowledge. The knowledge is structured as title-
content pairs, where the title serves as a brief summary and the
content offers detailed context. The Memory Knowledge Reser-
voir updates by adding new title-content pairs and replacing older
entries with newer ones for the same titles. Mathematically, the
Memory Knowledge Reservoir can be represented as a set K =
{k1, k2, . . . , k|K|}, where each ki is a title-content pair.

3.2 Knowledge Filter

3.4 Retrieval Trigger

The accuracy of responses generated by LLMs can be significantly
compromised by noisy retrieved contexts [34]. To mitigate this, we
introduce the Knowledge Filter module, designed to enhance re-
sponse accuracy and robustness. This module utilizes LLMs to filter

This module assesses when to engage external knowledge retrieval.
A calibration-based method is utilized, wherein the popularity serves
as a metric to estimate a RAG system’s proficiency with the related
knowledge.

K = {k1, k2, . . . , k|K|} is the set of knowledge in the Memory
Knowledge Reservoir, and qi ∈ Q is a generated query. The cosine
similarity between query qi and a knowledge instance kj ∈ K is
denoted by S(qi, title(kj)). The popularity of query qi, denoted by
Pop(qi), is defined as:

Pop(qi) = |{kj ∈ K | S(qi, title(kj)) ≥ τ }|

where τ is a similarity threshold, | · | indicates the cardinality of
the set. The boundary conditions for a query being within or outside
the knowledge of the RAG system are established using a popularity
threshold θ. A query qi is considered to be within the knowledge
boundary if:

Pop(qi) ≥ θ

Conversely, a query qi is outside the knowledge boundary if:

Pop(qi) < θ

4 Experiments

4.1 Modular Setting

Fine-tuning Gemma-2B We follow the Alpaca’s training method2,
employing the LoRa[12] method to instruction-tune the pre-trained
Gemma-2B model3 for the Question Rewriter+ and Knowledge Filter
modules. We set the learning rate to 1e-4, batch size to 8, and epochs
to 6. We set the rank of the LoRa low-rank matrix to 8, and the scal-
ing factor, alpha to 16. Additionally, we utilize the 4-bit quantization
method with NF4 quantization type [7]. The training and inference
process are all conducted on a single Nvidia Quadro RTX 6000.
Knowledge Retriever We utilize the Bing Search Engine v7 as the
information retrieval method. For each query q, we select the top-n
items from the search results, and each item is regarded as a knowl-
edge instance. We utilize the snippet of a search item as the content
of a knowledge instance. The hyperparameter n is predetermined at
10.
LLM Reader We primarily used GPT-3.5-turbo-0613 as the black-
box LLM model for generating answers. The prompt structure in-
cludes task instruction, question, external knowledge, examples, and
response format. The external knowledge section comprises up to 30
knowledge instances arranged in mixed order, as discussed in Sec-
tion 2.

4.2 Task Setting

We evaluate the efficacy of our proposed methodologies under open-
domain QA task. This evaluation leverages three distinct open-
domain QA datasets that do not require logical reasoning. These
include: (i) The Natural Questions (NQ) dataset [18], which is a
real-world queries compiled from search engines. (ii) PopQA [24],
a dataset with a long-tail distribution, emphasizing less popular top-
ics within Wikidata. (iii) AmbigNQ [25], an enhanced version of
NQ that transforms ambiguous questions into a set of discrete, yet
closely related queries. Additionally, we incorporate two benchmark
datasets that require logical reasoning: (iv) 2WIKIMQA [30] and (v)
HotPotQA [31]. Due to the costs associated with API calls for LLMs
and Bing Search, and following common practices[16, 34, 23, 33],
we test on a stratified sample of 300 questions from each dataset
rather than the entire test dataset.

2 https://github.com/tloen/alpaca-lora
3 https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-2b

Table 1: Open-Domain Question Answering Performance.

Dataset

CAmbigNQ

NQ

PopQA

AmbigNQ

HotPot

2WikiMQA

Method
Direct
Rewriter-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader
Direct
Rewriter-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader
Direct
Rewriter-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader
Direct
Rewriter-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader
Direct
Rewriter-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader
Direct
Rewriter-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader
Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader

F1
37.38
39.65
41.58
43.39
41.50
48.70
51.43
52.68
35.24
37.84
38.51
41.77
45.21
49.85
51.84
53.47
46.33
48.24
53.67
57.59
41.85
43.24
45.71
46.83

Hit Rate
55.67
57.67
59.00
64.33
42.00
46.00
50.33
51.33
42.33
44.00
46.67
51.33
46.67
50.00
52.33
55.67
41.33
44.00
45.33
50.00
42.33
45.00
47.67
49.33

We assess performance using the F1 Score and Hit Rate metrics.
Due to the discrepancy between the verbose outputs of LLMs and
the concise format of the dataset answers, we chose not to utilize
the Exact Match (EM) metric. Instead, we considered a response as
correct if the text hit any item of the labeled answers.

4.3 Baselines

Rewrite-Retrieve-Read [23] represents the current state-of-the-art
improvement on the basic Retrieve-then-Read RAG pipeline. Our ap-
proach enhances the existing RAG pipeline by augmenting the Query
Rewriter to Query Rewriter+ and introducing a new Knowledge Fil-
ter module. To highlight the effectiveness of our method, we imple-
mented the following configurations:

(i) Direct: Ask the LLM directly with the original question.
(ii) Rewriter-Retriever-Reader: Prior to retrieval, a Query Rewriter
module is employed to generate a query that fetches external knowl-
edge. The external knowledge, along with the original question, is
used to prompt the response generation.

(iii) Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader: Prior to retrieval, the Enhanced
Query Rewriter module is utilized, generating multiple queries to
acquire external knowledge and clarify the original question. Re-
sponses are generated using both the rewritten question and all re-
trieved external knowledge.

(iv) Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader: Applied before retrieval,
the Enhanced Query Rewriter module generates multiple queries and
clarifies the original question. A Knowledge Filter is used to discard
external knowledge unrelated to the rewritten question. The final re-
sponse is then generated using the filtered external knowledge and
the rewritten question.

Comparing the Rewriter+-Retriever-Reader

setup with the
Rewriter-Retriever-Reader setup validates the superiority of the
proposed Question Rewriter+ module. Additionally, comparing
the Rewriter+-Retriever-Filter-Reader setup with the Rewriter+-
Retriever-Reader setup demonstrates the effectiveness of the 4-step
RAG pipeline incorporating the Knowledge Filter.

4.4 Results

Experimental results are reported in Table 1. The scores indicate
that the Query Rewriter+ module outperforms the Query Rewriter
module across all datasets, substantiating that multiple queries and
clarified question are more effective for a RAG system correctly re-
sponse to user’s questions than single query and unrefined questions.
Specifically, adding the Knowledge Filter module to the traditional
3-step RAG pipeline significantly improves performance. This indi-
cates that merely adding external knowledge to the RAG system can
be detrimental, especially for multi-hop questions. The Knowledge
Filter module effectively eliminates noise and irrelevant content, en-
hancing the accuracy and robustness of the RAG system’s responses.

5 Ablation Studies

In this section, we analyze the individual and combined effects of
question rewriting and knowledge filtering. The results presented
in Table 3 indicate that the question rewriting process consistently
improves answer accuracy across the setups of direct generation,
retrieval-augmented generation using all knowledge, and retrieval-
augmented generation using filtered knowledge.

The results also shows that using all (unfiltered) external knowl-
edge for retrieval-augmented generation can sometimes lead to
marginal improvements or even decreased performance. For in-
stance, on the CAmbigNQ dataset, when LLMs are asked with
rewritten questions, introducing all external knowledge only raise the
hit rate from 57.67% to 58%. Besides, when LLM are queried with
the original questions, introducing all external knowledge makes the
hit rate decreased from 55.67% to 54.00%. On the other hand, we
observe that filtering knowledge can significantly boost the response
accuracy of the RAG system, whether asking with the original ques-
tion or rewritten question.

Assessing the synergistic effect of two modules, we find that while
each module individually improves response accuracy, the effect is
sometimes modest. However, their combined yields a significant en-
hancement. For instance, on the CAmbigNQ dataset, the individual
application of each module resulted in a maximum of 2% more cor-
rectly answered questions, whereas their combined application led
to a 7% increase in correctly answered questions. A similar phe-
nomenon can also been observed on the PopQA dataset.

6 Efficiency Improvement Investigation

In this section, we explore how efficiently our proposed method re-
duces redundant retrieval when answering recurring questions with
historically similar semantics. We also examine the hyperparameter
τ to balance efficiency and response accuracy. The experimental pro-
cedure is as follows:

Initially, we randomly selected 100 questions from the AmbigNQ
dataset to generate responses using our proposed method. Unlike pre-
vious sections, we set the parameter n in the Knowledge Retriever
module to 5. Instead of utilizing webpage snippets as the content of
knowledge instances, we visited the searched URLs and read the en-
tire webpage text, filtering out irrelevant information using the BM25
algorithm. After the response finished, the webpage content was then
cached in the Memory Knowledge Reservoir. Subsequently, we se-
lected an additional 200 questions from AmbigNQ that are seman-
tically similar to the previously solved questions. These questions
were answered with the support of the Memory Knowledge Reser-
voir and the Retrieval Trigger module, with the popularity threshold
θ set as 3.

We design several metrics to evaluate the resource cost of per-
question, include the average time spent in the RAG pipeline (Time
Cost), the average number of external knowledge instances (External
Knowledge), the average number of memory knowledge instances
(Memory Knowledge), the average number of knowledge instances
filtered out (Irrelevant Knowledge), and the performance metric Hit
Rate. These metrics are recorded during the question-answering pro-
cess.

The analysis of the trade-off between response quality and effi-
ciency for answering historically similar questions across different τ
settings is presented in Table 2. A significant finding is that the Time
Cost metric reaches minimum when setting the similarity threshold
τ = 0.6. This is accompanied by the External Knowledge metric
being very small, approximately 4.39, which is roughly equivalent
to one query search. This suggests that this configuration predom-
inantly leverages memory knowledge rather than external sources
for generating responses, thereby enhancing response efficiency. Re-
markably, at the τ = 0.6 setup, the quality of the responses is not
heavily affected and remains very close to that achieved by relying
entirely on external knowledge at τ = 1.0. This suggests that de-
ploying the Memory Knowledge module can achieve a significant
reduction in response time—by approximately 46%—without sub-
stantially compromising the quality of the answers. Furthermore, ad-
justing the threshold to 0.8 enhances the response quality beyond that
at τ = 1.0, underscoring that leveraging highly relevant historical
experience can generate responses with superior quality.

7 Case Study

To intuitively demonstrate how the Query Rewriter+ Module en-
hances the original question and generates multiple queries, as com-
pared to traditional Query Rewriter Modules, we present a question
examples from 2WikiMQA dataset in Figure 4. It can be observed
that the Query Rewriter+ Module semantically enhances the original
question and, unlike the Query Rewriter which generates only one
query, it produces three distinct queries, each focusing on different
semantic aspects. The Query Rewriter+ module can retrieve external
knowledge sources 1, 2, and 3, whereas the Query Rewriter module
only retrieves sources 1 and 2, showcasing its advantage in improv-
ing knowledge recall. The Knowledge Filter module subsequently
ensures the precision of the external knowledge by filtering out ir-
relevant knowledge instances (neutral, contradict) and retaining only
those that provide valuable information for answering the question
(entailment).

8 Related Work

8.1 Retrieval Augmented Generation

Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) [20] leverages a retriever
that provides substantial external information to enhance the output
of Large Language Models (LLMs). This strategy utilizes knowledge
in a parameter-free manner and circumvents the high training costs
associated with LLMs’ parameterized knowledge. Furthermore, it al-
leviates hallucination issues, significantly enhancing the factual ac-
curacy and relevance of the generated content. The concept of RAG
is rooted in the DrQA framework [5], which marked the initial phase
of integrating retrieval mechanisms with Language Models through

Table 2: The Impact of the Similarity Threshold τ of the Retriever Trigger module in Response Efficiency and Quality.

τ
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0

Time Cost (s)
5.68
5.89
3.97
7.17
7.45

External Knowledge Memory Knowledge
0.00
0.00
4.39
14.33
15.00

30.30
19.58
11.57
1.72
0.00

Irrelevant Knowledge
11.62
3.52
1.53
0.86
0.79

Hit Rate (%)
48.5
50.5
53.0
55.0
53.5

Table 3: Investigation of the Individual and Combined Effects of
Question Rewriting and Knowledge Filtering on CAMbigNQ and
PopQA

Dataset

CAmbigNQ

PopQA

Setting
Question
Original
Rewritten
Original
Rewritten
Original
Rewritten
Original
Rewritten
Original
Rewritten
Original
Rewritten

Knowledge
\
\
All
All
Filtered
Filtered
\
\
All
All
Filtered
Filtered

F1

Hit Rate

37.38
38.45
38.24
41.58
39.62
43.39
35.24
36.73
38.14
38.51
39.79
41.77

55.67
57.67
54.00
58.00
59.67
64.33
42.33
42.67
44.33
46.67
47.33
51.33

Figure 4: Examples for answering question "Which film was re-
leased earlier, The Girl From Monterrey or Jhuthi Sharm?" in the
2WIKIMQA dataset.

heuristic retrievers like TF-IDF for sourcing evidence. Subsequently,
RAG evolved with the introduction of Dense Passage Retrieval [15]
and REALM [26]. These methods utilize pre-trained transformers
and are characterized by the joint optimization of retrieval and gen-
eration process. Recent advancements have extended RAG’s capabil-
ities by integrating Large Language Models (LLMs), with develop-
ments such as REPLUG [29] and IC-RALM [26] demonstrating the
potent generalization abilities of LLMs in zero-shot or few-shot sce-
narios. These models can follow complex instructions, understand
retrieved information, and utilize limited demonstrations for gener-
ating high-quality responses.

8.2 Modular RAG

The core of RAG framework consists of retriever and reader mod-
ules. This retrieve-read pipeline has been enhanced, leading to the
Modular RAG paradigm with various integrated modules. This sec-
tion describes related modules in our work.

Rewriter: The introduction of a Question Rewriter module [23] led
to the development of a Rewrite-Retrieve-Read RAG pipeline. This
module generates a query that bridges the gap between the input text
and the knowledge base, facilitating the retrieval of relevant knowl-
edge and enhancing response accuracy. Our empirical studies indi-
cate that while a single query retrieves limited useful information,
multiple queries significantly enhance the retrieval of answer key-
words. This discovery has reinforced and motivated our efforts to im-
prove the existing functionality and design of the Question Rewriter.
Clarification: Represented by [17], this module generates clari-
fication questions to ascertain user intent, thus refining vague ques-
tions to uncover the underlying inquiry intent. We have integrated the
functionalities of the Rewriter and Clarification modules into a single
unit, Query Rewriter+, employing a fine-tuned Gemma-2B model to
perform both tasks generatively in one step, improving efficiency.

Post-Retrieval Process: After information retrieval, presenting all
data to a Large Language Model simultaneously may exceed the con-
text window limit. The Re-Ranking module strategically relocates
content based on relevance. Our preliminary study reveals that Large
Language Models (LLMs) have evolved to handle extended con-
texts, accommodating all retrievable information until a bottleneck
is reached. Consequently, we consider this post-retrieval process pri-
marily as a de-noising task, rather than focusing on ranking.

Memory: Modules in this category leverage historically similar
question-answer records to enhance current problem-solving capa-
bilities, reflecting an evolutionary learning process within the agent
[35]. Drawing on this concept, we employ a parameter-free caching
mechanism to expand the knowledge boundaries of RAG-based
question-answering, effectively improving response efficiency.

Retrieve Trigger: Understanding the parameterized knowledge
boundaries of LLMs is crucial for optimizing the timing of knowl-
edge retrieval. Calibration-based judgment methods have proven
both efficient and practical. However, our study explores a non-
parametric knowledge domain within a continuously expanding
RAG system. This is the first attempt to design a Retrieve Trigger
specifically for such scenarios. Our exploration focuses on identify-
ing appropriate thresholds that balance accuracy and efficiency.

Additional modules include Knowledge Retriever, LLM Reader,
Fact Checking, Revising [22, 10], and iterative RAG pipeline [28]
with further details available in [11, 9].

9 Conclusion

In this paper, we present a four-module strategy to enhance RAG
systems. The Query Rewriter+ module generates clearer questions
for better intent understanding by LLMs and produces multiple, se-
mantically distinct queries to find more relevant information. The

ModuleDetailsResultsQuery RewriterOriginal QuestionQueryRetrieve KnowledgeResponseWhich film was released earlier, The Girl From Monterrey or Jhuthi Sharm?Release dates of The Girl From Monterrey and Jhuthi Sharm 1, 2The Girl from MonterreyQuery Rewriter+ Rewritten QuestionQueriesRetrieve KnowledgeResponseWhat are the release dates of the films ‘The Girl From Monterrey’ and ‘Jhuthi Sharm‘ and which film was released first?Comparison between The Girl From Monterrey and Jhuthi Sharm release dates.1, 2Jhuthi SharmWhen did film ‘The Girl From Monterrey’ release?1, 2When did film ‘Jhuthi Sharm’ release?3Knowledge FilterTitleSnippetNLI ExplanationNLI Result1. The Girl from Monterrey - IMDbYes, her acting is THAT silly. However, despite being a second-rate Lupe Valez wannabee…The premise does not specify the release dates of the films or which one was released firstNeutral2. The Girl from Monterrey - WikipediaRelease date. October 4, 1943. Running time. 58 minutes: Country: United States: Language: English: The Girl from Monterrey is a 1943 American film directed by Wallace Fox…The premise contains information about “The Girl From Monterrey”, but information about “Jhuthi Sharm” is unavailable. It does contain useful information.Entailment3. Jhuthi Sharm - WikipediaJhuthi Sharm is a 1940 Bollywood film directed by Mohan Dayaram Bhavnani. It stars…The premise provides the release date of “Jhuthi Sharm” but does not mention “The Girl From Monterrey”.EntailmentKnowledge Filter refines retrieved information by eliminating irrel-
evant and noisy context, enhancing the precision and robustness of
LLM-generated responses. The Memory Knowledge Reservoir and
the Retrieval Trigger module optimize the use of historical data and
dynamically manage external information retrieval needs, increasing
system efficiency. Collectively, these advancements improve the ac-
curacy and efficiency of the RAG system.

Acknowledgements

This work was sponsored by the Australian Research
Council under the Linkage Projects Grant
LP210100129, and by the program of China Scholarships
Council (No. 202308200014).

References

[1] C. An, S. Gong, M. Zhong, X. Zhao, M. Li, J. Zhang, L. Kong, and
X. Qiu. L-eval: Instituting standardized evaluation for long context lan-
guage models, 2023.

[2] S. Borgeaud, A. Mensch, J. Hoffmann, T. Cai, E. Rutherford, K. Milli-
can, G. B. Van Den Driessche, J.-B. Lespiau, B. Damoc, A. Clark, et al.
Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In In-
ternational conference on machine learning, pages 2206–2240. PMLR,
2022.

[3] S. R. Bowman, G. Angeli, C. Potts, and C. D. Manning. A large an-
notated corpus for learning natural language inference. In L. Màrquez,
C. Callison-Burch, and J. Su, editors, Proceedings of the 2015 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
632–642, Lisbon, Portugal, Sept. 2015. Association for Computational
Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D15-1075. URL https://aclanthology.
org/D15-1075.

[4] T. B. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. Kaplan, P. Dhariwal,
A. Neelakantan, P. Shyam, G. Sastry, A. Askell, S. Agarwal, A. Herbert-
Voss, G. Krueger, T. Henighan, R. Child, A. Ramesh, D. M. Ziegler,
J. Wu, C. Winter, C. Hesse, M. Chen, E. Sigler, M. Litwin, S. Gray,
B. Chess, J. Clark, C. Berner, S. McCandlish, A. Radford, I. Sutskever,
and D. Amodei. Language models are few-shot learners, 2020.

[5] D. Chen, A. Fisch, J. Weston, and A. Bordes. Reading wikipedia to an-
swer open-domain questions. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.00051, 2017.
[6] A. Chowdhery, S. Narang, J. Devlin, M. Bosma, G. Mishra, A. Roberts,
P. Barham, H. W. Chung, C. Sutton, S. Gehrmann, P. Schuh, K. Shi,
S. Tsvyashchenko, J. Maynez, A. Rao, P. Barnes, Y. Tay, N. Shazeer,
V. Prabhakaran, E. Reif, N. Du, B. Hutchinson, R. Pope, J. Bradbury,
J. Austin, M. Isard, G. Gur-Ari, P. Yin, T. Duke, A. Levskaya, S. Ghe-
mawat, S. Dev, H. Michalewski, X. Garcia, V. Misra, K. Robinson,
L. Fedus, D. Zhou, D. Ippolito, D. Luan, H. Lim, B. Zoph, A. Spiri-
donov, R. Sepassi, D. Dohan, S. Agrawal, M. Omernick, A. M. Dai,
T. S. Pillai, M. Pellat, A. Lewkowycz, E. Moreira, R. Child, O. Polo-
zov, K. Lee, Z. Zhou, X. Wang, B. Saeta, M. Diaz, O. Firat, M. Catasta,
J. Wei, K. Meier-Hellstern, D. Eck, J. Dean, S. Petrov, and N. Fiedel.
Palm: Scaling language modeling with pathways, 2022.

[7] T. Dettmers, A. Pagnoni, A. Holtzman, and L. Zettlemoyer. Qlora: Ef-
ficient finetuning of quantized llms. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 36, 2024.

[8] M. Du, F. He, N. Zou, D. Tao, and X. Hu. Shortcut learning of large

language models in natural language understanding, 2023.

[9] Z. Feng, W. Ma, W. Yu, L. Huang, H. Wang, Q. Chen, W. Peng, X. Feng,
B. Qin, and T. liu. Trends in integration of knowledge and large lan-
guage models: A survey and taxonomy of methods, benchmarks, and
applications, 2023.

[10] L. Gao, Z. Dai, P. Pasupat, A. Chen, A. T. Chaganty, Y. Fan, V. Zhao,
N. Lao, H. Lee, D.-C. Juan, and K. Guu. RARR: Researching and revis-
ing what language models say, using language models. In A. Rogers,
J. Boyd-Graber, and N. Okazaki, editors, Proceedings of the 61st An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Vol-
ume 1: Long Papers), pages 16477–16508, Toronto, Canada, July 2023.
doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
acl-long.910. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.910.
[11] Y. Gao, Y. Xiong, X. Gao, K. Jia, J. Pan, Y. Bi, Y. Dai, J. Sun, Q. Guo,
M. Wang, and H. Wang. Retrieval-augmented generation for large lan-
guage models: A survey, 2024.

[12] E. J. Hu, Y. Shen, P. Wallis, Z. Allen-Zhu, Y. Li, S. Wang, L. Wang, and

W. Chen. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models, 2021.

[13] G. Izacard, P. Lewis, M. Lomeli, L. Hosseini, F. Petroni, T. Schick,
Few-shot
J. Dwivedi-Yu, A. Joulin, S. Riedel, and E. Grave.
learning with retrieval augmented language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2208.03299, 2022.

[14] H. Jiang, Q. Wu, C.-Y. Lin, Y. Yang, and L. Qiu. Llmlingua: Compress-
ing prompts for accelerated inference of large language models, 2023.
[15] V. Karpukhin, B. O˘guz, S. Min, P. Lewis, L. Wu, S. Edunov, D. Chen,
and W. tau Yih. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question an-
swering, 2020.

[16] O. Khattab, K. Santhanam, X. L. Li, D. Hall, P. Liang, C. Potts,
and M. Zaharia. Demonstrate-search-predict: Composing retrieval
arXiv preprint
and language models for knowledge-intensive nlp.
arXiv:2212.14024, 2022.

[17] G. Kim, S. Kim, B. Jeon, J. Park, and J. Kang. Tree of clarifications: An-
swering ambiguous questions with retrieval-augmented large language
models. In H. Bouamor, J. Pino, and K. Bali, editors, Proceedings of
the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-
cessing, pages 996–1009, Singapore, Dec. 2023. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.63. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2023.emnlp-main.63.

[18] T. Kwiatkowski, J. Palomaki, O. Redfield, M. Collins, A. Parikh, C. Al-
berti, D. Epstein, I. Polosukhin, J. Devlin, K. Lee, K. Toutanova,
L. Jones, M. Kelcey, M.-W. Chang, A. M. Dai, J. Uszkoreit, Q. Le,
and S. Petrov. Natural questions: A benchmark for question answer-
ing research. Transactions of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics, 7:452–466, 2019. doi: 10.1162/tacl_a_00276. URL https:
//aclanthology.org/Q19-1026.

[19] D. Lee, S. Kim, M. Lee, H. Lee, J. Park, S.-W. Lee, and K. Jung. Ask-
ing clarification questions to handle ambiguity in open-domain QA. In
H. Bouamor, J. Pino, and K. Bali, editors, Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pages 11526–11544, Sin-
gapore, Dec. 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:
10.18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.772. URL https://aclanthology.org/
2023.findings-emnlp.772.

[20] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V. Karpukhin, N. Goyal,
H. Küttler, M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih, T. Rocktäschel, et al. Retrieval-
augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:9459–9474, 2020.

[21] X. Li, E. Nie, and S. Liang. From classification to generation: Insights

into crosslingual retrieval augmented icl, 2023.

[22] J. Liu, J. Jin, Z. Wang, J. Cheng, Z. Dou, and J.-R. Wen. Reta-llm:
A retrieval-augmented large language model toolkit. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.05212, 2023.

[23] X. Ma, Y. Gong, P. He, H. Zhao, and N. Duan. Query rewriting for

retrieval-augmented large language models, 2023.

[24] A. Mallen, A. Asai, V. Zhong, R. Das, D. Khashabi, and H. Hajishirzi.
When not to trust language models: Investigating effectiveness of para-
metric and non-parametric memories. In Proceedings of the 61st An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers), pages 9802–9822, 2023.

[25] S. Min, J. Michael, H. Hajishirzi, and L. Zettlemoyer. AmbigQA: An-
In B. Webber, T. Cohn,
swering ambiguous open-domain questions.
Y. He, and Y. Liu, editors, Proceedings of
the 2020 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 5783–5797, Online, Nov. 2020. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.466. URL https://
aclanthology.org/2020.emnlp-main.466.

[26] O. Ram, Y. Levine, I. Dalmedigos, D. Muhlgay, A. Shashua, K. Leyton-
Brown, and Y. Shoham. In-context retrieval-augmented language mod-
els, 2023.

[27] P. Röttger and J. Pierrehumbert. Temporal adaptation of BERT and
performance on downstream document classification: Insights from
social media.
In M.-F. Moens, X. Huang, L. Specia, and S. W.-t.
Yih, editors, Findings of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: EMNLP 2021, pages 2400–2412, Punta Cana, Dominican Re-
public, Nov. 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:
10.18653/v1/2021.findings-emnlp.206. URL https://aclanthology.org/
2021.findings-emnlp.206.

[28] Z. Shao, Y. Gong, Y. Shen, M. Huang, N. Duan, and W. Chen. Enhanc-
ing retrieval-augmented large language models with iterative retrieval-
generation synergy. In H. Bouamor, J. Pino, and K. Bali, editors, Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023,
pages 9248–9274, Singapore, Dec. 2023. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.620. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-emnlp.620.

[29] W. Shi, S. Min, M. Yasunaga, M. Seo, R. James, M. Lewis, L. Zettle-
moyer, and W. tau Yih. Replug: Retrieval-augmented black-box lan-
guage models, 2023.

[30] J. Welbl, P. Stenetorp, and S. Riedel. Constructing datasets for multi-
hop reading comprehension across documents. Transactions of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics, 6:287–302, 2018.

[31] Z. Yang, P. Qi, S. Zhang, Y. Bengio, W. Cohen, R. Salakhutdinov, and
C. D. Manning. HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-
hop question answering. In E. Riloff, D. Chiang, J. Hockenmaier, and
J. Tsujii, editors, Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2369–2380, Brussels,
Belgium, Oct.-Nov. 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
doi: 10.18653/v1/D18-1259. URL https://aclanthology.org/D18-1259.
[32] S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. Narasimhan, and Y. Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models, 2023.
[33] O. Yoran, T. Wolfson, B. Bogin, U. Katz, D. Deutch, and J. Be-
rant. Answering questions by meta-reasoning over multiple chains of
thought. In H. Bouamor, J. Pino, and K. Bali, editors, Proceedings of
the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-
cessing, pages 5942–5966, Singapore, Dec. 2023. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.364. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2023.emnlp-main.364.

[34] O. Yoran, T. Wolfson, O. Ram, and J. Berant. Making retrieval-

augmented language models robust to irrelevant context, 2023.

[35] A. Zhao, D. Huang, Q. Xu, M. Lin, Y.-J. Liu, and G. Huang. Expel: Llm
agents are experiential learners. In Proceedings of THE 37th Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Conference., 2023.