A Study on the Implementation Method 
of an Agent-Based Advanced RAG 
System Using Graph 

Cheonsu Jeong1 

1 Dr. Jeong is Principal Consultant & the Technical Leader for AI Automation at SAMSUNG SDS; 

Abstract 
This study aims to improve knowledge-based question-answering (QA) systems by overcoming the limitations of 

existing Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) models and implementing an advanced RAG system based on 
Graph technology to develop high-quality generative AI services. While existing RAG models demonstrate high ac-

curacy and fluency by utilizing retrieved information, they may suffer from accuracy degradation as they generate 
responses using pre-loaded knowledge without reprocessing. Additionally, they cannot incorporate real-time data 

after the RAG configuration stage, leading to issues with contextual understanding and biased information. 
To address these limitations, this study implemented an enhanced RAG system utilizing Graph technology. This system 

is designed to efficiently search and utilize information. Specifically, it employs LangGraph to evaluate the reliability 

of retrieved information and synthesizes diverse data to generate more accurate and enhanced responses. Furthermore, 
the study provides a detailed explanation of the system's operation, key implementation steps, and examples through 

implementation code and validation results, thereby enhancing the understanding of advanced RAG technology. This 
approach offers practical guidelines for implementing advanced RAG systems in corporate services, making it a valu-

able resource for practical application. 

Keywords 
Advance RAG; Agent RAG; LLM; Generative AI; LangGraph 

I. Introduction 

Recent advancements in AI technology have brought sig-
nificant attention to Generative AI. Generative AI, a form 
of artificial intelligence that can create new content such 
as text, images, audio, and video based on vast amounts 
of trained data models (Jeong, 2023d), is being applied in 
various fields, including daily conversations, finance, 
healthcare, education, and entertainment (Ahn & Park, 
2023). As generative AI services become more accessible 

to the general public, the role of generative AI-based chat-
bots is becoming increasingly important (Adam et al., 
2021; Przegalinska et al., 2019; Park, 2024). A chatbot is 
an intelligent agent that allows users to have conversa-
tions typically through text or voice (Sánchez-Díaz et al., 
2018; Jeong & Jeong, 2020). Recently, generative AI 
chatbots have advanced to the level of analyzing human 
emotions and intentions to provide responses (Jeong, 
2023a). With the advent of large language models 
(LLMs), these chatbots can now be utilized for automatic 

* Corresponding Author: Cheonsu Jeong; paripal@korea.ac.kr 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
composition flow of advanced RAG, the configuration of 
Agent RAG, and other enhanced features. The implemen-
tation of the advanced RAG system details the overview 
and application of LangGraph, the system implementa-
tion process, and the results. The testing section presents 
the improved results of the implemented code. Finally, 
the conclusion summarizes the research findings, dis-
cusses the limitations, and outlines directions for future 
research. 

II. Related Work 

For this study, recent key research papers, journals, 
and articles related to the RAG model were re-
viewed. This section provides an overview of the 
RAG model and describes the advancements leading 
to the development of the Advanced RAG. 

2.1. Overview of the RAG Model 
The RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) model 
combines retrieval and generation to produce answers by 
integrating document retrieval and generation models 
(Lewis et al., 2020). To generate an answer to a question, 
the model first retrieves relevant documents and then uses 
them to produce the response. This process helps in gen-
erating accurate answers to questions. The RAG model 
can handle various types of questions effectively, even 
when there is a lack of specific domain knowledge. Con-
sequently, it enhances the accuracy and consistency of in-
formation compared to traditional generative models. 

The RAG model consists of two main stages: 

• Retrieval Stage: Information relevant to the 
given question is retrieved through a search en-
gine. 

• Generation Stage: Answers are generated 

based on the retrieved information. 

2.1.1. RAG Model Implementation Flow 
The RAG model performs text generation tasks by re-
trieving information from a given source data and using 
that information to generate the desired text. The data pro-
cessing for using RAG involves dividing the original data 
into smaller chunks, embedding the text data by convert-
ing it into numerical vectors, and storing these vectors in 
a vector store (Microsoft, 2023). The implementation 
flow of a generative AI service based on the RAG model 
2023e). 
is 

depicted 

(Jeong, 

Figure 

in 

1 

dialogue generation and translation (Jeong, 2023b). How-
ever, they may generate responses that conflict with the 
latest information and have a low understanding of new 
problems or domains as they rely on previously trained 
data (Jeong, 2023c). While 2023 was marked by the re-
lease of foundational large language models (LLMs) like 
ChatGPT and Llama-2, experts predict that 2024 will be 
the year of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) and 
AI Agents (Skelter Labs, 2024). 
However, there are several considerations for companies 
looking to adopt generative AI services. Companies must 
address concerns such as whether the AI can provide ac-
curate responses based on internal data, the potential risk 
of internal data leakage, and how to integrate generative 
AI with corporate systems. Solutions include using do-
main-specific fine-tuned LLMs and enhancing reliability 
with RAG that utilizes internal information (Jung, 2024). 
When domain-specific information is fine-tuned on GPT-
4 LLM, accuracy improves from 75% to 81%, and adding 
RAG can further increase accuracy to 86% (Angels et al., 
2024). RAG models are known for effectively combining 
internal knowledge retrieval and generation to produce 
more accurate responses. They offer the advantages of 
source-based fact provision and addressing data freshness 
issues through the integration of internal and external 
knowledge bases. However, the effectiveness of RAG 
models heavily depends on the quality of the database, 
directly impacting model performance (Kim, 2024). Tra-
ditional RAG models load knowledge once and generate 
responses without reprocessing, leading to accuracy deg-
radation and an inability to reflect real-time data after the 
RAG configuration. This process can result in inaccurate 
responses, particularly when generating answers to com-
plex questions, as the initial vectorized knowledge is used 
without updating with new information. Furthermore, tra-
ditional RAG models struggle to handle various types of 
questions and may suffer from unrelated documents being 
used in response due to poor retrieval strategies, along 
with the hallucination issues observed in LLMs. 
The purpose of this study is to improve the traditional 
RAG model-based knowledge-based QA system (Jeon et 
al., 2024) and overcome its limitations by accessing real-
time data and verifying whether the retrieved documents 
are genuinely relevant to the questions. By implementing 
an enhanced RAG system capable of addressing ques-
tions about recent events and real-time data, and being 
less susceptible to hallucinations, this study aims to im-
prove the quality and performance of generative AI ser-
vices. 
The introduction of this paper explains the research back-
ground and objectives, the limitations of existing RAG 
models, the importance and contributions of the study, 
and the structure of the paper. The theoretical background 
reviews the overview of RAG models, advanced RAG ap-
proaches, and case studies of existing research improve-
ments. The design of the advanced RAG model covers the 

Cheonsu Jeong 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
processing from external repositories. Recently, various 
Advanced RAG (Advanced Retrieval-Augmented Gener-
ation) methods have been proposed to address the limita-
tions of conventional RAG. Advanced RAG represents an 
evolved form of the traditional RAG technique, incorpo-
rating various optimization methods to overcome its lim-
itations. Recent research by Yunfan G. et al. introduces 
an optimization strategy that divides the retrieval process 
into Pre-Retrieval, Retrieval, and Post-Retrieval stages, 
significantly enhancing information accuracy and pro-
cessing efficiency through optimization at each stage 
(Yunfan G. et al., 2024). Additionally, various improve-
ment methods, such as re-ranking based on relevance to 
enhance accuracy, have been proposed as strategies for 
improving the quality of RAG systems (Jang Dong-jin, 
2024), as outlined in Table 1 (Matt A., 2023). Frame-
works like LangChain or LlamaIndex provide libraries 
for implementing these strategies, making the implemen-
tation process more straightforward. 

Table 1: Methods to Enhance RAG Performance 

Method 

Descriptions 

Clean your 
data 

Explore dif-
ferent index 
types 

Experiment 
with your 
chunking 
approach 

Play around 
with your 
base prompt 

When dealing with conflicting or redundant in-
formation, it becomes challenging to find the 
correct context during retrieval. To ensure accu-
rate responses to queries, it is essential to 
properly structure the documents themselves. 
One approach is to create summaries for all doc-
uments and use these summaries as context. 

While embedding-based similarity search meth-
ods generally perform well, they are not always 
the best solution. For example, in e-commerce, 
keyword-based search methods may be more 
suitable for finding specific items such as prod-
ucts. Many systems employ hybrid approaches, 
where keyword-based searches are used for spe-
cific products, and embedding-based searches 
are applied for general customer information 
and support. 

Chunk size is critically important, with smaller 
chunks typically yielding better performance; 
however, they may also lead to issues related to 
insufficient surrounding context. Generally, 
smaller chunk sizes aid search systems in iden-
tifying relevant contextual information more ef-
fectively. 

To reduce hallucinations, prompting should be 
designed to ensure that responses are based 
solely on the given contextual information. For 
example: "You are a customer support repre-
sentative, designed to provide assistance based 
on factual information only. Please answer que-
ries based on the given context information, not 
on pre-trained knowledge." 

Try meta- After adding relevant metadata tags to the 

Figure 1: Implementation Flow of a RAG-based Gener-
ative AI Service 

2.1.2. RAG-Based Vector Store Types 
To establish a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) 
system, a vector database is utilized to store knowledge. 
A typical vector pipeline for vector databases involves 
three stages: Indexing, Querying, and Post Processing 
(Devtorium, 2023). Specifically, RAG-based vector store 
configurations can be categorized into two types as illus-
trated in Figure 2: one where all source data is pre-stored 
in the vector store and another where data is dynamically 
inserted at query time. 

Figure 2: Configuration Types and Processing Proce-
dures of RAG-Based Vector Stores 

When a company offers internal knowledge through an 
Open LLM (Large Language Model), ensuring security is 
a critical issue, making the use of Local LLMs essential. 
In this scenario, it is effective to employ multiple Local 
LLMs, each optimized for different tasks. For instance, 
one LLM might be specialized in generating database 
queries to retrieve relevant data from multiple source da-
tabases, while another LLM could be developed to pro-
vide answers based on specific domain knowledge (Jeong, 
2023e). 

2.2. Prior Research on Advanced RAG 

2.2.1. Methods to Enhance RAG Performance 

The performance of RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Gener-
ation) is influenced by the quality of the data that can be 
composed into prompts based on the results of question 

Cheonsu Jeong 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
data filter-
ing 

chunks (such as document title, page number, 
email, date, etc.), these tags are used to process 
the results. 

Use query 
routing 

Having multiple indexes is often beneficial. 
When a query is received, it can then be routed 
to the appropriate index. For example, there 
may be one index for handling summary ques-
tions, another for addressing factual questions, 
and a third index suited for date-sensitive in-
quiries. 

Look into 
reranking 

Using re-ranking allows the search system to re-
trieve the top similar nodes based on context, 
and then re-rank them according to relevance, 
thereby enhancing accuracy. 

Consider 
query trans-
formations 

If the relevant context for the initial question 
cannot be found, modifying the question and re-
trying can improve answer accuracy. This can 
be implemented in the RAG system by allowing 
the query to be decomposed into multiple ques-
tions. 

Fine-tune 
your em-
bedding 
model 

When the context or domain does not align, 
fine-tuning the embedding model can enhance 
performance, particularly for domain-specific 
terminology. For example, this can involve 
adapting the model to better handle specialized 
vocabulary pertinent to a specific domain. 

Start using 
LLM dev. 
tools 

When building a RAG system using LlamaIn-
dex or LangChain, debugging tools can be uti-
lized to identify the sources of documents and 
context. 

2.2.2. Research on Advanced RAG Types 

Notable advanced RAG approaches currently being re-
searched include the following: 

• Self-RAG: This method involves re-searching 
generated responses to find relevant information 
and using it to refine the answers. This approach 
can enhance the accuracy and fluency of the re-
sponses (Asai A. et al., 2023). 

• Corrective RAG: This approach employs a 

Corrective Agent to rectify errors in generated 
responses. The Corrective Agent identifies er-
rors in the responses and retrieves information to 
correct them, thereby improving the reliability 
of the answers (Yan, S.Q. et al., 2024). 

• Adaptive RAG: This method involves selecting 
the appropriate RAG approach based on the type 
of question. For instance, Self-RAG may be 
used for factual questions, while Corrective 
RAG could be employed for opinion-based 
questions. By choosing the appropriate method 
according to the question type, the accuracy of 
the responses can be improved (Jeong, S. et al., 
2024). 

III. Design of Advanced RAG 

Models 

In this chapter, various Advanced RAG ap-
proaches proposed in previous research are re-
viewed, and an enhanced RAG system is de-
signed based on these findings. Specifically, we 
closely analyze methods such as Self-RAG, 
Corrective RAG, and Adaptive RAG, and pre-
sent an implementation model as shown in Fig-
ure 3 based on the improvements derived from 
these analyses. The implementation of the 
Agent RAG system primarily builds on Correc-
tive RAG, while referencing Self-RAG and 
Adaptive RAG. The workflow to enhance a typ-
ical RAG system involves retrieving document 
chunks from a vector database and then using 
an LLM to verify the relevance of each re-
trieved document chunk to the input query. If 
all retrieved document chunks are relevant, the 
system proceeds with the standard RAG pipe-
line to generate a response using the LLM. 
However, if some retrieved documents are 
deemed irrelevant to the input query, the input 

Cheonsu Jeong 

Figure 3: Agent-based advanced RAG workflow 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
query is rephrased, and the web is searched for 
new information relevant to the query. This new 
information is then sent to the LLM to generate 
a response. This workflow is implemented us-
ing a graph-based approach for the Advanced 
RAG system. 

3.1. Design of Advanced RAG Execution 

Procedures 

The Advanced RAG model maintains the basic flow 
of a traditional RAG model while incorporating ad-
ditional processes after the search stage to enhance 
the accuracy and consistency of responses. The com-
position and flow of the Advanced RAG model are 
designed as follows: 

① Query Processing: Input the user's query, 
and analyze and understand the precise 
meaning of the query through intent recog-
nition and analysis. 

② Search: Utilize search engines to explore 
and retrieve information from various 
sources related to the query. 

③ Candidate Selection: Select information 
from the search results that is highly rele-
vant and reliable to the query as candidates. 

④ Candidate Ranking: Rank the selected 
candidates based on their relevance to the 
query, the reliability of the information, and 
diversity. 

⑤ Answer Generation: Use a text generation 
model to create an answer based on the 
ranked candidate information. 

⑥ Answer Updating: Continuously collect 
new information and update the answer to 
provide the most current information. 

The operation of the Advanced RAG model is as fol-
lows: 

① Input the question. 

② Search for information related to the ques-

tion using a search engine. 

③ Extract relevant information related to the 

Cheonsu Jeong 

question from the search results using an 
information extractor. 

④ Generate an answer based on the extracted 

information. 

⑤ The Agent refines the answer to enhance its 

accuracy and fluency. 

⑥ Output the final answer. 

3.2. Application of Agent RAG 

To apply the enhanced execution procedures, the 
Agent RAG framework incorporates the concept of 
an "Agent" into the answer generation process, 
thereby further improving the accuracy and con-
sistency of responses. The Agent serves as a core el-
ement in the answer generation process, fulfilling the 
following roles: 

• Answer Evaluation: Assessing the accu-
racy, fluency, and reliability of the gener-
ated responses. 

• Answer Improvement: Enhancing the re-
sponses based on the evaluation results. 

• 

Information Retrieval: Searching for 
necessary information to improve the re-
sponses. 

3.3. Application of the LangGraph Module 

LangGraph is a module released by LangChain de-
signed to build stateful multi-actor applications us-
ing LLMs. It is utilized to create Agent and multi-
Agent workflows, allowing for the definition of 
flows that include essential cycles for most Agent ar-
chitectures, and providing detailed control over the 
application's flow and state, which is critical for cre-
ating reliable Agents (LangGraph, 2024). 

Built on top of LangChain, LangGraph facilitates the 
development of AI agents driven by LLMs by creat-
ing essential cyclic graphs. LangGraph treats Agent 
workflows as cyclic graph structures. Specifically, 
the LangGraph Conversational Retrieval Agent of-
fers various functionalities essential for the develop-
ment of language-based AI applications, including 
language processing, AI model integration, database 
management, and graph-based data processing. It is 
composed of states, nodes, and edges and performs 
the following roles: 

• Complex Workflow Management: Use-
ful for structuring and managing state-

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
based workflows, with clear transitions and 
branching for each stage. 

• Clear Flow Control: Allows for precise 
definition of relationships between nodes 
and edges, facilitating the implementation 
of complex conditional logic and state tran-
sitions. 

• Scalability: Enables easy addition of new 
nodes and edges to expand the workflow, 
accommodating complex systems with var-
ious conditional logic. 

This study proposes using LangGraph, which offers 
a range of functionalities, as a suitable tool for im-
plementing Agent-based Advanced RAG systems. 

• LLM: OpenAI GPT-4-turbo Model 

• Python Development Environment: Google Colab 

4.2. Results of the step-by-step implementation 

4.2.1. Installation of Basic Libraries and API Key Setup 

Basic libraries, including LangChain for overall orches-
tration of tasks such as data splitting, OpenAI for API ac-
cess, ChromaDB for storing RAG knowledge, and a web 
search library, were installed. To facilitate easy manage-
ment of knowledge files, Google Drive was integrated 
with Colab. To ensure security, the keys for various mod-
ules were registered in a .env file at a specific location. 
Figure4 shows that the .env file containing the keys was 
successfully read. 

IV. Implementation Results of the 

Advanced RAG System 

This chapter presents the implementation of the RAG 
model and LangChain framework based on the Advanced 
RAG concepts introduced in Chapter 3, utilizing data 
suitable for internal corporate use. The implementation 
approach and considerations for using LangGraph, which 
is well-suited for Agent implementation, are demon-
strated through practical examples. 

4.1. Development Environment 
The solutions and development platforms applied in this 
case are based on the framework outlined in Figure 1, and 
the implementation method utilizing LangGraph and 
OpenAI LLM is described. The process involves chunk-
ing and embedding documents, storing them in Chro-
maDB, and then transforming them into retrievers for 
document content search. The results are evaluated, and 
an Agent RAG Graph is defined and implemented accord-
ingly. The development was carried out using Python, 
which provides a range of libraries necessary for 
 AI development. 

The development environment for each implementation 
component is as follows: 
• Orchestration Framework: LangChain 

• Agent Graph Workflow: LangGraph 

• Workflow Trace: LangSmith 

• Data Extraction and Chunking: LangChain Modules 

• Embedding: OpenAI 

• Vector Database: Chroma 

Cheonsu Jeong 

Figure 4: Installation of Basic Libraries and OpenAI 
API Key Configuration 

4.2.2. Retriever Implementation 

For managing internal documents, such as 'Dress Code 
Standards.pdf’', the PyPDFLoader is used to load the doc-
ument from the specified location. Given the document's 
characteristics, which include tables, the TextSplitter is 
adjusted. Instead of using the CharacterTextSplitter with 
a single delimiter (e.g., newline), the RecursiveCharacter-
TextSplitter is employed by adjusting the ‘chunk_size’ 
and ‘chunk_overlap’ parameters to efficiently maintain 
context. The split documents are stored in the Chroma 
vector store, embedded using OpenAIEmbeddings, and 
then converted into retrievers for search purposes. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 5: Data Loading and Embedding 

4.2.3. Evaluation of Search Results 

To assess whether the retrieved documents are relevant 
to the given question, the implementation is as shown in 
Figure 6. 

Figure 7: Relevance Determination of Search Results 

Subsequently, a question-answer RAG chain is con-
structed, similar to traditional RAG systems, to integrate 
with the AI agent as shown in Figure 8. 

Figure 6: Implementation of Search Results Evaluation 

The retrieved documents are linked to user questions. If 
the document contains keywords related to the user’s 
query, it is assessed for relevance with the aim of filtering 
out irrelevant searches. As depicted in Figure 7, relevance 
is indicated by assigning a binary score of 'yes' or 'no' 
(e.g., “GRADE: binary_score='yes'”). 

Figure 8: Question-Answer RAG Chain 

Using the constructed question-answer RAG chain, the 
relevant answer results are obtained as illustrated in Fig-
ure 9. 

Figure 9: Answer Processing for Related Questions 

However, as shown in Figure 10, when an out-of-context 
question is attempted, the response "RAG does not have 
relevant information" is received, indicating that the 
question cannot be answered. 

Cheonsu Jeong 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10: Answer Processing for Unrelated Questions 

To improve this, the question can be rephrased into a 
more optimized version for web search, as shown in Fig-
ure 11. Rewriting the question (question rewriting) helps 
obtain better contextual information from the web. For 
example, an incomplete question like "Tell me what is the 
capital of the country where BTS is located" can be im-
proved to "What is the capital of South Korea, the country 
where BTS is from?" 

Figure 13: Evaluation of Answer Relevance 

4.2.4. Definition of the Agent RAG Graph 

To enhance answer retrieval, the Tavily API is used for 
web searches, and the connection to this API is estab-
lished. The Graph State of the Agent is defined, where the 
state object is passed to each node in the graph. Nodes 
such as Retrieve, generate_answer, grade_documents, 
and web_search_add are defined as shown in Figure 14. 

Figure 11: Question Rewriting and Improved Question 

Additionally, the generated answers are evaluated to de-
termine if they contain hallucinations, as depicted in Fig-
ure 12. 

Figure 14: Definition of Web Search Tool and Agent 
Graph State

Figure 12: Evaluation of Hallucinations 

Subsequently, the answers are assessed for their utility in 
solving the question, as shown in Figure 13. A binary 
score of 'yes' or 'no' is assigned to indicate whether the 
answer is useful for solving the question. 

Figure 15: Example of Retrieve Node Graph Implemen-
tation 

Retrieve, 

The Agent RAG Graph can be composed of nodes such 
as 
rewrite_query, 
grade_documents, 
web_search_add, and generate_answer, as illustrated in 
Figure 14. The State, consisting of a set of messages, is 
used to store and represent the state of the agent graph as 
it passes through various nodes. Figure 15 shows the im-
plementation example of the Retrieve Node Graph, which 
is used to fetch relevant contextual documents from the 
vector database. It also defines the node classes for docu-
ment evaluation (grade_documents), question rewriting 
(rewrite_query), web searching (web_search_add), and 

Cheonsu Jeong 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
answer generation (generate_answer). 

4.2.5. Implementation of the Agent RAG Graph 

In the implementation phase of the Agent RAG Graph, 
LangGraph is used to build the Agent into a graph by uti-
lizing the functions developed in the previous section. 
This involves placing the Agent into relevant nodes and 
connecting them with defined edges according to the 
specified workflow. The Agent performs an action that 
calls the Retrieve function and then adds output infor-
mation to the state before invoking the Agent. As shown 
in Figure 16, the StateGraph class is used to define and 
manage the state-based graph. The provided code sets up 
the workflow to define the process for retrieving docu-
ments or performing other tasks based on the Agent's de-
cisions. 

Figure 17: Graph of the Answer Generation Process 

4.3. Test Results 

The implemented Agent RAG workflow was tested with 
various questions to improve the accuracy of the answers, 
and the process of streaming responses to questions can 
stream method. 
be 

confirmed 

through 

the 

Figure 16: Node Definition and Graph Creation for An-
swer Generation 

After the retrieve node, document evaluation 
(grade_documents) is performed to determine whether to 
proceed with generate or web_search tasks. This in-
cludes completing the tasks along each path or returning 
to the Agent. This process is used to manage complex 
decisions and task flows, ultimately compiling the work-
flow to create an executable application. The generated 
workflow can be visualized using IPython.display, as 
shown in Figure 17. 

4.3.1. Verification of Questions in RAG Knowledge In-

formation 

When the question "Tell me the things to consider when 
choosing a work uniform" was input for the document 
‘Dress Code Standards’ Figure 18, which is RAG infor-
mation, the question was rewritten to "What are the main 
factors to consider when choosing a work uniform?" to 
improve the accuracy of the answer. This resulted in a 
more accurate response. This process can be confirmed 
through the streaming of responses to questions using the 
stream method as shown in Figure 19. 

Cheonsu Jeong 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resulting in the correct answer "The capital of South Ko-
rea is Seoul." This process can be confirmed through the 
streaming process as shown in Figure 20. 

Figure 20Answer Generation Process through Web 
Search for Information Not in RAG Knowledge 

As shown in Figure 21 by tracing the execution using 
LangSmith, it can be confirmed that the process of gener-
ating answers through web search for information not in 
the RAG knowledge base proceeded according to the de-
signed Agent workflow (retrieve, grade_documents, re-
write_query, web_search, generate_answer). 

Figure 18: Dress Code Standards.pdf 

Figure 19: Answer Generation Process for Information 
in RAG Knowledge 

Figure 21 Workflow Trace via LangSmith 

4.3.2. Verification of Questions Not in RAG 

Knowledge Information 

When the question "Tell me what is the capital of the 
country where BTS is located" was input, which is not in 
the RAG knowledge information, it was determined to 
"perform a web search because all Vector RAG docu-
ments are irrelevant to the question." The incomplete ini-
tial question "Tell me what is the capital of the country 
where BTS is located" was rewritten to a complete and 
rewritten question " What is the capital of South Korea, 
the country where BTS is from?" and the query was made, 

Cheonsu Jeong 

V. Conclusion and Discussion 

This study has reviewed various methods to enhance the 
accuracy of RAG and explored the theoretical back-
ground of Advanced RAG models aimed at improving 
knowledge-based QA systems. Through the implementa-
tion of a graph-based Agent RAG system, along with spe-
cific implementation code and validation results, this re-
search has demonstrated the feasibility of an enhanced 
RAG system. 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed graph-based Advanced RAG system offers 
a novel approach that significantly improves RAG perfor-
mance, addressing the limitations of existing RAG mod-
els. The experimental results show that this system mark-
edly enhances the accuracy and relevance of responses to 
user queries. The utilization of LangGraph's graph tech-
nology has effectively assessed the reliability of infor-
mation, contributing to the improvement of information 
quality through question rewriting and web search opti-
mization. By enhancing real-time data accessibility and 
strengthening the system's ability to handle various types 
of questions, the LangGraph-based method has expanded 
the potential applications of AI-driven customer support 
and information retrieval. These findings provide a cru-
cial foundation for the advancement of RAG-based gen-
erative AI services. 

However, several limitations remain. The LangGraph-
based system is optimized for specific domains, which 
may result in performance degradation when applied to 
other fields. Additionally, the system's complexity may 
require additional resources for implementation and 
maintenance. Further validation processes are necessary 
to ensure the accuracy and reliability of real-time data, 
which could impact overall system performance. 

Future research should focus on improving the generali-
zability of graph-based RAG systems. Expanding the sys-
tem's applicability through testing and optimization 
across various domains, as well as developing and vali-
dating algorithms to enhance real-time data reliability, 
will be essential for further performance improvements. 
Lastly, given the rapid advancements in RAG technology, 
it is crucial to not only keep pace with technological pro-
gress but also to deeply understand and continually im-
prove how information is retrieved and how accurate and 
reliable answers are generated. 

References 

1. Adam, M., Wessel, M., & Benlian, A. (2021). AI-
based chatbots in customer service and their ef-
fects on user compliance. Electronic Markets, 
31(2), 427-445. 

2. Ahn, J., & Park, H. (2023). Development of a 
Case-Based Nursing Education Program Using 
Generative Artificial Intelligence. Journal of Ko-
rean Academic Society of Nursing Education, 
29(3), 
234-246. 
https://doi.org/10.5977/jkasne.2023.29.3.234 
3. Anderson JC. Current status of chorion villus bi-
opsy. In: Tudenhope D, Chenoweth J, editors. 
Proceedings of the 4th Congress of the Australian 

Cheonsu Jeong 

11 

Perinatal Society; 1986. Brisbane, Queensland: 
Australian Perinatal Society; 1987. p. 190-6. 
4. Angels B., Vinamra B., Renato L., et al., (2024, 
January 30). RAG vs Fine-tuning: Pipelines, 
Tradeoffs, and a Case Study on Agriculture. arXiv 
preprint arXiv:2401.08406. 

5. Asai A., Wu Z., Wang Y., Sil A., Hajishirzi H., 
(2023, October 17). Self-RAG: Learning to Re-
trieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Re-
flection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11511. 
6. Devtorium. (2023, July 26). How Vector Data-
bases Can Enhance Custom AI Solutions. 
https://devtorium.com/blog/how-vector-data-
bases-can-enhance-custom-ai-solutions/ 

7. Jang, D. (2024, February 24). Enhancing Search-
Augmented Generation (RAG) Performance Us-
ing Korean Reranker. Retrieved 
from 
https://aws.amazon.com/ko/blogs/tech/korean-re-
ranker-rag/ 

8. Jeon, J., Kim, S., Kim, J., & Yoon, S. (2024, Jan-
uary 31). Solving Knowledge-Based QA Prob-
lems Using Search-Augmented Generation (RAG) 
Technology on Web Application Servers (WAS). 
Proceedings of the Korean Institute of Communi-
cations and Information Sciences Conference, 
Gangwon. 

12(1), 

9. Jeong, C. S., & Jeong, J. H. (2020). A Study on 
the Method of Implementing an AI Chatbot to Re-
spond to the POST COVID-19 Untact Era, Jour-
nal of Information Technology Services, 19(4), 
31–47. 
https://doi.org/10.9716/KITS.2020.19.4.031 
10. Jeong, C. S. (2023a). A Study on the RPA Inter-
face Method for Hybrid AI Chatbot Implementa-
tion, KIPS Transactions on Software and Data En-
41-50. 
gineering, 
https://doi.org/10.3745/KTSDE.2023.12.1.41 
11. Jeong, C. S. (2023b). A Case Study in Applying 
Hyperautomation Platform for E2E Business Pro-
cess Automation, Information Systems Review, 
25(2), 
31-56. 
https://doi.org/10.14329/isr.2023.25.2.031 
12. Jeong, C. S. (2023c). A Study on the Service In-
tegration of Traditional Chatbot and ChatGPT, 
Journal of Information Technology Applications 
& 
11-28. 
https://doi.org/10.21219/jitam.2023.30.4.001 
13. Jeong, C. S. (2023d). A Study on the Implemen-
tation of Generative AI Services Using an Enter-
prise Data-Based LLM Application Architecture. 
Advances in Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning, 
1588-1618. 
3(4). 
https://dx.doi.org/10.54364/AAIML.2023.1191 

Management, 

3(4), 

14. Jeong, C. S. (2023e). Generative AI service im-
plementation using LLM application architecture: 
based on RAG model and LangChain framework. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26. Yan S.Q., Gu J.C., Zhu Y., Ling Z.H., (2024, 
March 27). Corrective Retrieval Augmented Gen-
eration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.15884. 
27. Yunfan G., Yun X., Xinyu G., Kangxiang J., Jin-
liu P., Yuxi B., Yi D., Jiawei S., Meng W., Haofen 
W., (2024, March 27). Retrieval-Augmented Gen-
eration for Large Language Models: A Survey. 
arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997. 

Journal of Intelligence and Information Systems, 
29(4), 
129-164. 
https://dx.doi.org/10.13088/jiis.2023.29.4.129 
15. Jeong, C. S. (2024). Domain-specialized LLM: 
Financial fine-tuning and utilization method using 
Mistral 7B. Journal of Intelligence and Infor-
mation 
93-120. 
https://dx.doi.org/10.13088/jiis.2024.30.1.093 
16. Jeong, S., Baek, J., Cho, S., Hwang S.J., Park, J.C., 
Jinheon Baek, Sukmin Cho, Sung Ju Hwang, Jong 
C. Park., (2024, March 28). Adaptive-RAG: 
Learning to Adapt Retrieval-Augmented Large 
Language Models through Question Complexity. 
arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.14403. 

Systems, 

30(1), 

17. Kim, J. (2024). A Study on Data Chunking Strat-
egies to Enhance LLM Service Quality Using 
RAG Techniques. Master's Thesis, Korea Univer-
sity, Seoul. 

18. LangGraph. (2024, July 22). LangGraph Over-
view. https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/ 
19. Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., 
Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., & Kiela, D. (2020). Re-
trieval-augmented generation for knowledge-in-
tensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neural Information 
Processing Systems, 33, 9459-9474. 

20. Matt, A. (2023, September 19). 0 Ways to Im-
prove the Performance of Retrieval Augmented 
Generation 
https://towardsdatasci-
ence.com/10-ways-to-improve-the-performance-
of-retrieval-augmented-generation-systems-
5fa2cee7cd5c 

Systems. 

21. Microsoft. (2023, August 01). Retrieval Aug-
mented Generation using Azure Machine Learn-
ing prompt flow. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/azure/machine-learning/concept-retrieval-aug-
mented-generation?view=azureml-api-2 

22. Park, E. (2024). The Impact of Customers' Regu-
latory Focus and Familiarity with Generative AI-
Based Chatbots on Privacy Disclosure Intent: Fo-
cusing on Privacy Calculus Theory. Journal of 
Knowledge Management Research, 25(2), 49-68. 
https://doi.org/10.15813/kmr.2024.25.2.003 
23. Przegalinska, A., Ciechanowski, L., Stroz, A., 
Gloor, P., & Mazurek, G. (2019). In bot we trust: 
A new methodology of chatbot performance 
measures. Business Horizons, 62(6), 785-797. 
24. Sánchez-Díaz, X., Ayala-Bastidas, G., Fonseca-
Ortiz, P., Garrido, L. (2018). A Knowledge-Based 
Methodology for Building a Conversational Chat-
bot as an Intelligent Tutor, Advances in Compu-
tational 
Intelligence, Vol. 11289. 165-175. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-04497-8_14 
25. Skelter Labs. (2024, January 5). 2024 Year Of 
The RAG: Reasons for RAG's Attention and Fu-
ture Trends. Retrieved from https://www.skel-
terlabs.com/blog/2024-year-of-the-rag 

Cheonsu Jeong 

12