Optimizing RAG Techniques for Automotive Industry PDF Chatbots: A Case Study with 

Locally Deployed Ollama Models 

Optimizing RAG Techniques Based on Locally Deployed Ollama Models 

A Case Study with Locally Deployed Ollama Models 

Fei Liu * 

China Automotive Technology & Research Center, liufei@catarc.ac.cn 

Zejun Kang 

China Automotive Technology & Research Center, kangzejun@catarc.ac.cn 

Xing Han 

China Automotive Technology & Research Center, hanxing@catarc.ac.cn 

With the growing demand for offline PDF chatbots in automotive industrial production environments, optimizing the deployment 

of large language models (LLMs) in local, low-performance settings has become increasingly important. This study focuses on 

enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques for processing complex automotive industry documents using 

locally deployed Ollama models. 

Based on the Langchain framework, we propose a multi-dimensional optimization approach for Ollama's local RAG 

implementation. Our method addresses key challenges in automotive document processing, including multi-column layouts and 

technical specifications. We introduce improvements in PDF processing, retrieval mechanisms, and context compression, tailored 

to the unique characteristics of automotive industry documents. Additionally, we design custom classes supporting embedding 

pipelines and an agent supporting self-RAG based on LangGraph best practices. 

To evaluate our approach, we constructed a proprietary dataset comprising typical automotive industry documents, including 

technical reports and corporate regulations. We compared our optimized RAG model and self-RAG agent against a naive RAG 

baseline across three datasets: our automotive industry dataset, QReCC, and CoQA. Results demonstrate significant improvements 

in context precision, context recall, answer relevancy, and faithfulness, with particularly notable performance on the automotive 

industry dataset. 

Our optimization scheme provides an effective solution for deploying local RAG systems in the automotive sector, addressing the 

specific needs of PDF chatbots in industrial production environments. This research has important implications for advancing 

information processing and intelligent production in the automotive industry. 

* Place the footnote text for the author (if applicable) here. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CCS CONCEPTS • Computing methodologies • Artificial intelligence • Natural language processing • Natural language 
generation 

Additional Keywords and Phrases: Automotive Industry, Langchain, self-rag, PDF Processing, RAG, Ollama 

1 INTRODUCTION 

1.1 Research Background 

The automotive industry is undergoing a significant digital transformation, with an increasing reliance on complex 
technical documentation for various processes [1]. This shift encompasses design, manufacturing, and quality 
control, all of which now heavily depend on efficient information management systems [2]. The growing volume of 
technical documents, often in PDF format, has created a pressing need for advanced information retrieval and 
question-answering capabilities in industrial settings [3]. 

Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools in natural language processing, demonstrating 
remarkable abilities in tasks such as document understanding and question answering [4]. These models have 

shown potential in handling the complex, domain-specific language often found in automotive documentation. 
However, the application of LLMs in industrial environments presents unique challenges, particularly in terms of 
computational resources and data privacy [5]. 

Among the various techniques developed to enhance LLM performance, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) 
has gained significant attention [6]. RAG combines the generative capabilities of LLMs with external knowledge 
retrieval, allowing for more accurate and contextually relevant responses. This approach, initially proposed by 
Lewis et al., has shown superior performance in generating specific, diverse, and factual language compared to 
traditional models [7]. 

The implementation of RAG techniques in the automotive industry, however, faces several industry-specific 

challenges: 

The application of RAG techniques in the automotive industry presents unique challenges: 

1. Document Complexity: Automotive technical documents often feature intricate layouts, including multi-
column formats and complex tables. These structural elements pose significant challenges for standard 
document processing methods [8]. 

2. Data Privacy: The automotive industry deals with highly confidential information related to proprietary 
designs and manufacturing processes. This necessitates solutions that can operate securely within the 

company's infrastructure, without relying on external cloud services [9]. 

3. Resource Constraints: Many industrial environments operate with limited computational resources. This 
constraint requires the development of optimized, lightweight models capable of running efficiently on 
standard hardware [10]. 

4. Domain Specificity: The automotive sector employs a vast array of specialized terminology and concepts. 
Generic language models often lack the specific knowledge required to accurately interpret and respond to 
queries about automotive processes and specifications [11]. 

 
5. Real-time Performance: In fast-paced manufacturing environments, the ability to quickly retrieve and 
process relevant information is crucial. This necessitates high-performance information retrieval systems 
capable of operating under time constraints [12]. 

The open-source large language model service framework Ollama has gained attention for its ability to rapidly 
deploy LLMs in low-performance environments [13]. This framework offers potential solutions to some of the 
resource constraints faced in industrial settings. However, its application in the context of RAG for automotive 
documentation processing remains an area ripe for exploration and optimization. 

As the automotive industry continues to evolve, particularly with the advent of electric and autonomous vehicles, 
the complexity and volume of technical documentation are expected to increase further [14]. This evolution 
underscores the importance of developing robust, efficient, and secure information retrieval systems tailored to the 
specific needs of the automotive sector [15]. 

The intersection of these technological advancements and industry-specific challenges presents a unique 
opportunity for research [16]. By addressing the particular needs of the automotive industry in the context of RAG 
and local LLM deployment, there is potential to significantly enhance information access and utilization in 
automotive engineering and manufacturing processes [17]. 

1.2 Research Status and Gaps 

Recent advancements in RAG techniques have shown promise in various domains. Jiang et al. proposed FLARE, 
which uses predicted next-sentence content to proactively retrieve relevant information [18]. Wang et al. 
introduced FILCO, a method for identifying and filtering useful contexts to improve generation quality [19]. These 
approaches demonstrate the potential for more context-aware retrieval in complex document environments, such 
as those found in automotive engineering. 

The concept of self-reflective RAG, as explored by Asai et al [20], introduces a novel framework designed to 
enhance the quality and factual accuracy of LLMs through on-demand retrieval and a self-reflection mechanism. 
This approach could be especially valuable in the automotive context, where precision and accuracy in technical 
information are paramount. 

In the domain of optimizing RAG for specific industries, Rajpathak et al [21], proposed a domain-adaptive 
retrieval method that is particularly relevant for the automotive sector's unique terminology and document 

structures. Similarly, the work of Siriwardhana et al [22], on improving retrieval efficiency in large-scale industrial 
datasets offers insights that could be applied to the vast repositories of technical documentation in automotive 
manufacturing. 

The open-source large language model service framework Ollama has gained attention for its ability to rapidly 

deploy LLMs in low-performance environments [23], Burgan et al. developed RamChat, an AI chatbot aimed at 
improving accessibility [24], These developments in local LLM deployment are particularly relevant to the 
automotive industry's need for on-premises, resource-efficient solutions. 

Recent work by Wang et al [25], on on-device language models for function calling of software APIs presents 

potential applications in integrating RAG systems with existing software infrastructure in automotive production 
environments. This could lead to more seamless integration of AI-powered information retrieval within established 
industrial processes. 

The challenge of processing complex PDF documents, a common format for technical specifications in the 

automotive industry, has been addressed by several researchers. Lin et al [26], proposed an advanced PDF parsing 

technique that could be adapted to handle the multi-column layouts and intricate tables often found in automotive 
documentation. Furthermore, the work of Bensch et al [27], on information extraction from semi-structured 
documents offers promising approaches for dealing with the varied formats of automotive technical literature. 

In the realm of domain-specific language understanding, the research of Faysse et al [28], on fine-tuning 
language models for specialized industries provides valuable insights that could be applied to tailoring RAG systems 
for automotive terminology and concepts. This is complemented by the work of Kumar et al [29], on entity 
recognition in technical documents, which could enhance the precision of information retrieval in automotive 
contexts. 

The integration of RAG with other AI methodologies has also shown promise. For instance, the combination of 
RAG with reinforcement learning, as explored by Belhadj et al [30], could lead to more adaptive and context-aware 
retrieval systems capable of handling the diverse query types encountered in automotive engineering and 
production. 

Privacy and security concerns, which are paramount in the automotive industry, have been addressed in the 
context of RAG by researchers such as Zeng et al [31], who proposed privacy-preserving retrieval methods that 
could be crucial for protecting proprietary automotive designs and processes. 

The challenge of maintaining coherence in long-form text generation, often necessary when addressing complex 

automotive queries, has been tackled by researchers like Borgeaud et al [32], whose work on improving long-range 
dependencies in language models could enhance the quality of responses in automotive RAG applications. 

Recent advancements in few-shot learning, as demonstrated by Izacard et al [33], with GPT-3, offer potential for 
rapidly adapting RAG systems to new automotive subdomains or emerging technologies without extensive 
retraining. This could be particularly valuable in the fast-evolving landscape of automotive technology. 

The application of RAG in multilingual settings, as explored by Ahmad et al [34], is especially relevant for global 
automotive companies dealing with documentation in multiple languages. Their work on cross-lingual retrieval and 
generation could facilitate more efficient knowledge sharing across international teams. 

In the domain of optimizing retrieval mechanisms, the research of Su et al [35], on dense retrieval methods offers 
potential improvements in the speed and accuracy of information lookup, crucial for real-time query resolution in 
fast-paced automotive production environments. 

The challenge of handling numerical data and calculations, often present in automotive specifications and 

performance metrics, has been addressed by researchers like Noorbakhsh et al. [36], whose work on integrating 
symbolic mathematics with neural language models could enhance the precision of RAG systems when dealing with 
quantitative automotive data. 

However, despite these advancements, there remains a significant gap in research specifically addressing the 

unique challenges of implementing RAG systems in the automotive industry, particularly in resource-constrained, 
offline environments. 

The significance of this research lies in: 

1. Providing an effective optimization scheme for local RAG deployment of Ollama in automotive industrial 

environments, addressing key challenges in document processing and information retrieval. 

2. Exploring the application of self-RAG in offline, industry-specific scenarios, offering new insights into function 

calling implementations for domain-specific tasks. 

3. Contributing to the advancement of intelligent information processing in automotive manufacturing, 

potentially improving efficiency and accuracy in technical document analysis and query resolution. 

1.3 Research Objectives and Significance 

Given the identified challenges and research gaps, this study aims to develop a multi-dimensional optimization 
scheme for applying RAG technology with Ollama in local, low-performance automotive industry environments. 
Our specific research objectives include: 

• Proposing a PDF file processing method optimized for automotive industry documents, capable of handling 

multi-column layouts and complex tables. 

• Developing an advanced RAG system based on the Langchain framework, introducing reranking models and 

BM25 retrievers to build an efficient context compression pipeline. 

• Designing an intelligent agent that supports self-RAG and exploring a function calling mechanism to enhance 

Ollama's response generation in automotive-specific scenarios. 

• Evaluating the proposed system using a proprietary dataset of automotive industry documents, alongside 

public datasets, to demonstrate its effectiveness in real-world industrial applications. 

The significance of this research lies in: 

• Providing an effective optimization scheme for local RAG deployment of Ollama in automotive industrial 

environments, addressing key challenges in document processing and information retrieval. 

• Exploring the application of self-RAG in offline, industry-specific scenarios, offering new insights into function 

calling implementations for domain-specific tasks. 

• Contributing to the advancement of intelligent information processing in automotive manufacturing, 

potentially improving efficiency and accuracy in technical document analysis and query resolution. 

This research builds upon and extends existing work in several key areas: 

• The potential of RAG systems to support decision-making processes, a critical application in automotive 
design and manufacturing, has been explored by researchers such as Gamage et al [37]. Their work on using 
RAG for few evidences-based reasoning could be adapted to support complex decision-making scenarios in 
automotive engineering. 

• Recent developments in efficient transformer architectures, such as the work of Zhuang et al [38], on 
Reformer, offer potential for deploying more powerful RAG models within the computational constraints of 
industrial environments. 

• The integration of visual information with text-based retrieval, as explored by Chen et al [39], presents 
opportunities for enhancing RAG systems to handle technical diagrams and schematics common in 
automotive documentation. 

By addressing these research objectives and building upon recent advancements in the field, this study aims to 
significantly enhance the applicability and effectiveness of RAG technologies in the automotive industry, potentially 
transforming how technical information is accessed, processed, and utilized in automotive engineering and 
manufacturing processes. 

2 MATERIALS AND METHODS 

2.1 Foundation 

Our research builds upon the Langchain framework and Ollama model, adapting them to meet the specific needs of 
the automotive industry. We began by constructing a preliminary retrieval-based chatbot framework using 
Langchain's components, which we then optimized for processing automotive technical documents. 

Figure 1 illustrates the key components of this system. This architecture integrates advanced document loading 
capabilities for various file formats, efficient text splitting, and a robust retrieval mechanism using the Chroma 
vector store. The basic framework includes: 

Vector Store
(Chroma)

Documents

Document Loader
(PDF)

Text Splitter
(RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter)

Embeddings
(OllamaEmbeddings)

Query

Retriever

LLM (Ollama)

ConversationalRetrievalChain

Figure 1: Basic RAG Architecture for Automotive Document Processing. 

Response

• Document Loading: Utilizing Langchain's Loader class to recursively load PDF documents from specified 

directories, simulating the document structure in automotive manufacturing environments. 

• Text Chunking: Implementing an embedded tokenization model to split documents into fixed-length text 
chunks, optimized for technical specifications and multi-column layouts common in automotive 
documentation. 

• Vector Storage: Encoding text chunks into semantic vectors and storing them in the Chroma vector database, 

creating an indexed text retriever tailored for automotive terminology and concepts. 

• Dialogue Generation: Employing Langchain's ConversationalRetrievalChain to process user queries and 

retrieved context, generating responses using the locally deployed Ollama model. 

This foundational setup serves as the baseline for our subsequent optimizations, each designed to address 

specific challenges in automotive document processing and information retrieval. 

2.2 PDF File Processing Optimization 

To address the unique challenges posed by automotive industry documents, we developed an enhanced PDF 
processing method combining PDFMiner and Tabula libraries. 

2.2.1 Overview of PDFMiner and Tabula 

PDFMiner is a Python library used for extracting information from PDF documents. It is capable of extracting text, 

images, metadata, and structural information from PDF documents. PDFMiner provides both high-level and low-
level APIs to satisfy different levels of requirements. Automotive technical documents often feature multi-column 

 
layouts and complex diagrams. We implemented a custom algorithm using PDFMiner's extract_pages function to 
accurately extract content while preserving the logical flow of information: 

1. Page Segmentation: We analyze each page to identify distinct content regions, including text columns, 

diagrams, and tables. 

2. Content Ordering: Implementing a left-to-right, top-to-bottom reading order algorithm to ensure proper 

sequencing of extracted information. 

3. Diagram Extraction: Utilizing PDFMiner's image extraction capabilities to preserve technical diagrams crucial 

for understanding automotive specifications. 

Tabula is a Java library used for extracting tabular data from PDF files. It provides a Python wrapper, making it 
more convenient to use Tabula in Python. Tabula can automatically detect table boundaries and convert tabular 
data into DataFrame objects, facilitating subsequent data analysis and processing. 

2.2.2 Multi-column Layout and Table Information Recognition Optimization 

Tables in automotive documents often contain critical data such as part specifications, test results, or compliance 
information. Our approach uses Tabula's read_pdf function with custom parameters like Algorithm 1: 

ALGORITHM 1: Extract Text and Tables from PDF to Markdown 

write_2_md(input, output) 

 pages = extract_pages(input) 

 open output for writing as out 

 for page_num, page in enumerate(pages, start=1), do 

 elements = [e for e in page if isinstance(e, LTTextContainer)] 

 tables = tabula.read_pdf(input, pages=page_num, multiple_tables=True) 

 mid_line = (max(e.bbox[2] for e in elements) + min(e.bbox[0] for e in elements)) / 2 

 left = [e for e in elements if e.bbox[0] < mid_line] 

 right = [e for e in elements if e.bbox[0] >= mid_line] 

 sort left by -e.bbox[1] 

 sort right by -e.bbox[1] 

 for col in [left, right], do 

 for e in col, do 

 cleaned_text = clean_text(e.get_text()) 

 write cleaned_text + "\n" to out 

 end 

 end 

 for table in tables, do 

 write pd.DataFrame(table).to_markdown(index=False) + "\n" to out 

 end 

 write "\n\n" to out 

 end 

end 

1. Table Detection: Implementing heuristics to identify table structures within automotive documents, 

considering common formats used in the industry. 

2. Data Extraction: Converting recognized tables into structured DataFrame objects, preserving relationships 

between data points. 

3. Contextual Integration: Seamlessly integrating extracted table data with surrounding text to maintain 

document coherence. 

When integrating text and table information, we first write the text information extracted by the multi-column 
layout recognition algorithm into the Markdown file in the order of appearance. Then, after the text information of 
each page, we convert the table information recognized on that page into Markdown format and write it into the 
file. By doing so, we can ensure that the content order in the generated Markdown file is consistent with the original 
PDF file, and the table information can be correctly embedded in the corresponding positions. 

To illustrate the effectiveness of this approach, let's examine two figures that demonstrate the conversion 
process for a complex academic paper layout. Figure 2 shows a sample page from the original PDF document, which 
features a challenging two-column layout with embedded tables and various formatting elements. Figure presents 
the corresponding Markdown output after processing with our optimized method. 

Figure 2: Sample page from original PDF document. (https://arxiv.org/pdf/1804.07821) 

 
Figure 3: Corresponding Markdown output. 

As we can see, our method successfully preserves the structural integrity of the original document, accurately 
capturing both the textual content and tabular data. The two-column layout is seamlessly converted into a linear 
Markdown format, maintaining the logical flow of information. Tables are properly formatted using Markdown 
syntax, ensuring they remain easily readable and can be further processed or rendered as needed. 

Through this approach, we can effectively combine the functionality of the PDFMiner and Tabula libraries. This 
optimized PDF processing method significantly improves the accuracy and completeness of information extraction 
from complex automotive documents, providing a solid foundation for subsequent RAG processes. 

2.3 Optimization of Advanced RAG Based on Langchain 

To enhance the RAG system's performance for automotive industry applications, we introduced several 

optimizations to the Langchain-based implementation. We introduce the BGE reranker model and BM25 algorithm. 
Building upon the groundwork laid in previous sections, we first combine the BM25Retriever with the default 
retriever using EnsembleRetriever in Langchain, assigning different weights to achieve more comprehensive and 
accurate retrieval. Then, a custom class is designed to integrate the reranking model into the context compression 
pipeline, further enhancing the retrieval and generation quality of the model. 

2.3.1 Overview of BGE Reranker Model and BM25 Retriever 

A reranker model is a general semantic vector model used to optimize the ranking of retrieval results. It can adapt 
to prioritize automotive-relevant information in retrieved contexts. In this study, we employ BAAI/bge-reranker-

large as the reranker model. BGE (BAAI General Embedding) is a reranker model proposed by the Beijing Academy 
of Artificial Intelligence (BAAI), specifically optimized for Chinese queries [40]. 

 
 
BM25 (Best Matching 25) is a classic bag-of-words retrieval algorithm that evaluates relevance by calculating 
the term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) score between the query and documents [41]. The BM25 
retriever can quickly and efficiently filter out the most query-relevant documents from a large-scale text corpus. 
We introduce this traditional relevance assessment method in combination with the reranker model to further 
strengthen the effectiveness of the RAG retriever. 

2.3.2 Building the Context Compression Pipeline and Custom Class Design 

To optimize the context information processing of the RAG model, we construct a context compression pipeline 
DocumentCompressorPipeline that is pecifically tailored for automotive technical content. In addition to the 
collection retrievers mentioned earlier, we also introduce: 

• EmbeddingsRedundantFilter: An embedding-based redundancy filter to remove redundant information 

from the retrieval results. 

• LongContextReorder: Optimizes the order of context information, prioritizing key automotive specifications 

and procedures. 

• BgeRerank: A custom class that inherits from BaseDocumentCompressor. Since Langchain's official support 
for the BGE model is relatively limited, the purpose of designing this class is to seamlessly integrate the BGE 
reranker model into the pipeline. This custom class can improve relevance scoring for automotive queries. 

The following Algorithm 2 is the pseudocode for the BgeRerank class: 

ALGORITHM 2: BgeRerank 

BgeRerank(documents, query) 

 initialize model = CrossEncoder(model_name) 

 doc_list = list(documents) 

 _docs = [d.page_content for d in doc_list] 

 model_inputs = [[query, doc] for doc in _docs] 

 scores = model.predict(model_inputs) 

 results = sorted(enumerate(scores), key=lambda x: x[1], reverse=True)[:top_n] 

 final_results = [] 

 for r in results, do 

 doc = doc_list[r[0]] 

 doc.metadata["relevance_score"] = r[1] 

 append doc to final_results 

 end 

 return final_results 

By overriding the compress_documents method, the BGE model is used to calculate the relevance between the 
query and documents. The documents are then sorted based on their scores, and the top N documents are selected 
as the final compression results. This custom class design compensates for the insufficient support for BGE in 
Langchain, allowing us to flexibly incorporate it into the pipeline structure. 

In summary, the innovative aspects of this section include: introducing the BGE reranker model and BM25 
retriever, building the context compression pipeline, and seamlessly integrating BGE into the Langchain framework 
through the custom BgeRerank class. This pipeline significantly enhances the quality and relevance of retrieved 
information, ensuring that the most pertinent automotive technical details are presented to the language model. 

2.4 Optimization of Advanced RAG Based on Langchain 

In the previous section, we completed the basic design of the RAG system. However, integrating LLMs into practical 
applications and constructing end-to-end intelligent systems still present numerous challenges. To address the 
complex, multi-step problem of querying PDF profiles, which is common in automotive engineering and 
manufacturing processes, we have developed an advanced Self-RAG agent based on the LangGraph framework. 

2.4.1 Overview of SELF-RAG 

Self-Reflective Retrieval-Augmented Generation (SELF-RAG) is a novel framework designed to enhance the quality 
and factual accuracy of LLMs through on-demand retrieval and a self-reflection mechanism [42]. 
Unlike traditional RAG methods, SELF-RAG endows LLMs with the following capabilities: 

1. On-demand Retrieval: The LLMs autonomously determines whether to retrieve relevant information from an 

external knowledge base based on the input it receives. 

2. Self-Reflection: The LLMs evaluates and reflects upon both the retrieved information and its own generated 

content, thereby improving the quality and reliability of its output. 

The training process of SELF-RAG consists of two stages: 

1. Offline Critic Model Training: An independent critic model is trained to generate "reflection tokens". These 

tokens are inserted into the LLMs' output to guide its self-reflection process. 

2. Generative Model Training: The LLMs is fine-tuned using a corpus that includes reflection tokens and 
retrieved documents. This enables the LLMs to understand and utilize these tokens, incorporating self-
reflection into its generation process. 

During inference, the LLMs dynamically decides whether to retrieve information based on the requirements of 
the task at hand. It also leverages the retrieved information and the self-reflection mechanism to generate high-
quality output. For instance, in tasks demanding factual accuracy, the LLMs is more inclined to retrieve and utilize 
relevant information, while in more open-ended tasks, it may prioritize creativity and rely less on retrieval. 

2.4.2 Agent Design Supporting Self-RAG 

Considering this, based on Langchain, we designed an intelligent Agent class called AgenticRAG, which aims to 
utilize Self-RAG technology to answer user questions. AgenticRAG combines various components from the 

LangGraph and LangChain ecosystems to achieve a modular and scalable question-answering system. 

The core of the AgenticRAG class is the create_graph method, which defines a workflow based on a directed 
acyclic graph (DAG). The workflow consists of multiple nodes, each responsible for a specific task in the question-
answering process. The nodes are connected by directed edges, forming a complete question-answering flow. The 

main components in the AgenticRAG class are as follows: 

• GraphState: Represents the current state of the graph, including the user's question, retrieved documents, 

generated answer, and chat history. 

• Node: Represents a step or task in the question-answering process, accepts the current state as input, 

performs specific operations, and returns the updated state. 

We designed the AgenticRAG class to handle sophisticated automotive-related questions. Key components as 

Figure 4: 

Figure 4: Flowchart of Self-RAG Agent Implementation via LangGraph. 

1. Retrieve Node: Optimized to fetch relevant information from automotive technical documents, considering 

industry-specific terminology and concepts. 

2. Grade Documents Node: Evaluates retrieved documents based on their relevance to automotive queries, 

considering factors like technical accuracy and applicability to specific manufacturing processes. 

3. Generate Node: Produces responses tailored to automotive industry needs, incorporating technical 

specifications and industry standards searched from documents. 

4. Transform Query Node: Refines queries to better capture the intent behind automotive-specific questions, 

improving retrieval accuracy in subsequent iterations. 

 
AgenticRAG uses conditional judgment logic to determine the direction of the question-answering process. For 
example, based on the scoring results from the Grade Documents Node, it decides whether to generate an answer 
or rewrite the question; simultaneously, based on the quality of the answer generated by the Generate Node, it 
determines whether to regenerate, rewrite the question, or output the final result. 

The design of AgenticRAG fully reflects modularity and scalability. By dividing the complex question-answering 
process into multiple independent nodes, each node focuses on a specific task, making the system easier to 
understand, debug, and maintain. At the same time, since the nodes pass information through states, new nodes can 
be easily inserted into the existing workflow, supporting the extension and optimization of functionality. 

2.4.3 Function Calling Design for Optimizing Ollama Output in RAG Scenarios 

Function calling is a powerful technique that significantly enhances the output quality of LLMs in RAG scenarios 
[43]. By integrating external functions with LLMs, specialized logic and algorithms can be employed to guide the 
model, resulting in more accurate, coherent, and informative responses. This approach leverages the few-shot 
learning capabilities of LLMs, enabling them to adapt to new tasks while mitigating their inherent limitations in 
reasoning and computation. 

However, most of the relevant work has focused on standard transformer-based LLMs, with a lack of 

implementation for optimizing Ollama callbacks, especially in RAG scenarios. Although Langchain officially 
provides ollamafunction.bind to call functions, further research on this method is currently scarce. Therefore, to 
enhance the agent's capability in handling automotive-specific tasks, we designed a custom class adapted to 
ollamafunction.bind, called ChatFunction. It inherits from the BaseFunction class and overrides the __init__ and 
__call__ methods. The main features of ChatFunction are as Algorithm 3: 

ALGORITHM 3: ChatFunction 

ChatFunction(persona, lang, retry) 

 inputProp = Property(type=INPUT, desc=InputDesc()) 

 outputProp = Property(type=OUTPUT, desc=OutputDesc()) 

 props = [inputProp, outputProp] 

 params = Parameter(props=props, required=[input, output]) 

 initialize BaseFunction(name=ChatFuncName(), desc=ChatFuncDesc(), params) 

end procedure 

call(args) 

 output = args[output] 

 input = args[input] 

 if IsEmpty(output) or IsEmpty(input), do 

 raise ValueError(MissingArgMessage()) 

 end 

 detail = GetPromptByRetry(retry) 

 persona = GetPersonaString(lang) 

 history = GetHistoryString(input) 

 
 current = GetCurrentString(input) 

 prompt = Format(detail, persona, history, current) 

 respTool = LookupTool(ChatResponseEnhancer()) 

 return { 

 tool: respTool, 

 tool_input: { 

 response: output, 

 query: prompt 

 } 

 } 

end procedure 

GetPromptByRetry(retry) 

 if retry = 0, do 

 return GetBriefPrompt() 

 else if retry = 1, do 

 return GetMediumPrompt() 

 else 

 return GetDetailedPrompt() 

 end 

end function 

The initialization accepts three parameters: the AI assistant's personality description personality, language 

preference language, and retry count retry_count. 

Two properties are defined: query_input and output, representing the complete input (including personality 
description, language instructions, and conversation history) and the AI assistant's response, respectively. This 
ensures that the model is provided with the necessary background knowledge for each retry, enabling it to generate 
responses based on the specified role characteristics and language style. 

The constructor of the parent class BaseFunction is called, passing the function name, description, and 

parameter list. 

When invoked, it accepts an arguments dictionary containing two required parameters: output and query_input. 
According to the retry count retry_count in the self-rag Agent in 3.3.2, the level of detail in the answer 

detail_prompt is dynamically adjusted to modify prompts based on the complexity of automotive queries and the 
depth of technical detail required. 

The query_input for the next round is constructed by encoding the personality description, language preference, 
detail level requirement, and current conversation history. To maintain awareness of the ongoing conversation 

context, crucial for addressing multi-step automotive processes or complex diagnostic queries. 

A dictionary is returned, containing the tool field (specifying the callback function name) and the tool_input field 
(containing the optimized response and updated query_input), allowing the next round of callback requests to 
continue optimizing based on the current results and state, forming a closed-loop self-improvement process. 

 
The innovation of ChatFunction lies in its full utilization of Ollama's JSON mode callback function potential, 
optimizing the response effectiveness in the RAG scenario. This customized function call mechanism greatly 
improves the agent's ability to handle complex automotive queries, provide technically accurate information, and 
can guide users through the efficient acquisition of knowledge common to automotive design and manufacturing. 

3 RESULTS 

3.1 Overview of the RAGAS Performance Evaluation Framework 

RAGAS (Retrieval Augmented Generation Assessment Suite) is a comprehensive evaluation framework for 
assessing the performance of RAG models. It provides a series of metrics to quantify the quality of generated results, 
with a particular focus on the impact of information retrieval on the generation process. The evaluation metrics in 
RAGAS include: 

• Context Precision: Measures the precision of relevant contextual information contained in the generated 

results. 

• Faithfulness: Evaluates the faithfulness of the generated results to the original contextual information, i.e., 

the consistency between the generated content and the original information. 

• Answer Relevancy: Assesses the relevance of the generated answers to the questions, i.e., whether the 

answers are on-topic and meet the requirements of the questions. 

• Context Recall: Measures the coverage of relevant contextual information in the generated results, i.e., how 

much key information is captured. 

We adopt RAGAS as the evaluation framework to compare and analyze the performance of different RAG models. 
The quantitative metrics provided by RAGAS enable us to objectively evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the 
models in terms of contextual information utilization and generated content quality, providing important 
references for model selection and optimization. 

3.2 Experimental Results and Analysis 

3.2.1 Experimental Scenario Design 

In this paper, we select two public datasets, QReCC [44], and CoQA [45], and introduce a self-constructed dataset as 
the experimental data sources. The QReCC dataset contains 10,000 questions, each corresponding to a background 
knowledge text, with questions presented in the form of multi-turn dialogues. The CoQA dataset contains over 8,000 
multi-domain dialogues, each based on a given text and consisting of multiple question-answer turns. 

The self-constructed dataset is a automotive industry proprietary dataset compiled from internal documents of 

a leading automotive manufacturer. This dataset includes: 

• Technical specifications and design documents 
• Manufacturing process guidelines 
• Quality control procedures 
• Corporate regulations and standards 

Due to the confidential nature of these documents, we cannot provide detailed statistics or examples. However, 
this dataset represents the core focus of our study, reflecting real-world challenges in automotive document 
processing. 

While the self-constructed dataset serves as our primary testbed, we included QReCC and CoQA for several 

crucial reasons: 

1. Structural Similarity: The question-answer pairs in QReCC and CoQA share a similar format with our custom-
designed test cases for the self-constructed dataset. This structural consistency allows for a fair comparison 
of our model's performance across different domains. 

2. Conversational Nature: Both QReCC and CoQA feature multi-turn dialogues, mirroring the complex, context-

dependent queries often encountered in automotive engineering and manufacturing processes. 

3. Diverse Domain Coverage: These datasets cover a wide range of topics, helping us evaluate our model's 

generalization capabilities beyond the automotive domain. 

4. Benchmark Comparability: As widely used public datasets, QReCC and CoQA enable us to benchmark our 

system against other state-of-the-art models in a reproducible manner. 

5. Confidentiality Compliance: By using these public datasets alongside our proprietary data, we can openly 

discuss and compare results without compromising sensitive corporate information. 

6. Robustness Testing: The inclusion of these datasets helps demonstrate that our optimizations, while tailored 

for automotive applications, do not compromise performance on general conversational tasks. 

Considering that our research aims at the requirements of PDF dialogue chatbots and uses the BGE reordering 
model, we first translate the knowledge or link information in the QReCC and CoQA datasets into Chinese and 
convert it to PDF format. This step ensures the consistency of experimental data with complex PDF documents in 
real application scenarios and facilitates the evaluation of the performance of different RAG models and their 
optimization schemes in practice. The self-constructed dataset does not require additional processing as it is 
already in PDF format. 

After data preparation, we design or directly utilize a number of question-answer pairs with contextual memory 
content from these datasets as test cases. Here, we take a set of question-answer pairs from the QReCC dataset as 
an example, given a background text: 

“John is a boy who likes to play outside. After school, he always goes to the park to meet his friends.” 

The following is a set of multi-turn question-answering based on this background text: 

“Q: What did John do after school? 

A: John went to the park after school. 
Q: Who did he meet at the park? 
A: He met his friends at the park.” 

We designed our experiments to evaluate the performance of four systems: 

• Naive RAG (Baseline) 
• Advanced RAG (Our Optimized Model) 
• Self-RAG Agent (Baseline) 
• Self-RAG Agent (Our Proposed Agent with Custom Function Calling) 

For each dataset, we created test sets comprising: 

• 500 question-answer pairs from the self-constructed dataset 
• 500 pairs from QReCC 
• 500 pairs from CoQA 

These test sets were carefully curated to ensure a balance of simple queries, multi-turn conversations, and 

complex technical questions, mirroring real-world usage scenarios in the automotive industry and beyond. 

3.2.2 Optimization Effects of Langchain-based RAG 

Figure 5: Performance Comparison of Naive RAG vs. Advanced RAG with Custom Context Compression Pipeline across Datasets. 

Table 1: Comparative Analysis of Naive RAG vs. Advanced RAG with Custom Context Compression Pipeline across Datasets 

Datasets 
Naive RAG 

Advanced RAG 

Metrics 
Answer Relevancy 
Faithfulness 
Context Precision 
Context Recall 
Answer Relevancy 
Faithfulness 
Context Precision 
Context Recall 

QReCC 
0.782 
0.81 
0.845 
0.831 
0.811 
0.847 
0.839 
0.842 

CoQA 
0.772 
0.803 
0.838 
0.824 
0.829 
0.85 
0.841 
0.811 

Self-constructed dataset 
0.759 
0.803 
0.847 
0.822 
0.817 
0.832 
0.836 
0.835 

 
 
According to the Figure 5 and Table 1, experimental results show that the proposed Langchain-based RAG 
optimization approach achieves certain improvements on some metrics compared to the naive RAG model. 

By introducing the BGE reordering model and BM25 retriever, and constructing a context compression pipeline, 
the optimized RAG model improves context precision by 0.7%, 0.4%, and 1.3% on the QReCC, CoQA, and self-
constructed dataset, respectively. The context recall also increases by 1.3% and 1.6% on the QReCC and self-
constructed dataset, but decreases by 1.6% on the CoQA dataset. These results indicate that while the optimized 
model shows some improvements in capturing question-relevant background knowledge, it is not always the case. 
However, the optimized model exhibits 3.7%, 7.4%, and 7.6% relative improvements in answer relevancy, as 

well as 4.6%, 5.9%, and 3.6% boosts in faithfulness on QReCC, CoQA, and self-constructed dataset, respectively. 

These results underscore the effectiveness of our optimizations in handling complex automotive documentation 
and queries. The Advanced RAG model also showed improvements, but the Self-RAG Agent's performance was 
notably superior, particularly in dealing with multi-step technical queries common in automotive applications. 

3.2.3 Optimization Effects of Langgraph-based Self-RAG Agent 

Figure 6: Performance Comparison of Self-RAG Agent vs. Self-RAG Agent with Custom Function Calling across Datasets. 

Table 2: Comparative Analysis of Self-RAG Agent vs. Self-RAG Agent with Custom Function Calling across Datasets 

Datasets 

Metrics 
Answer Relevancy 

QReCC 
0.839 

CoQA 
0.821 

Self-constructed dataset 
0.83 

 
Datasets 
Self-RAG 

Agent 

Self-RAG 

Agent 
custom 
calling 

with 
function 

Metrics 
Faithfulness 
Context Precision 
Context Recall 
Answer Relevancy 
Faithfulness 
Context Precision 
Context Recall 

QReCC 
0.847 
0.864 
0.851 
0.852 
0.859 
0.861 
0.871 

CoQA 
0.858 
0.866 
0.841 
0.851 
0.86 
0.882 
0.87 

Self-constructed dataset 
0.847 
0.867 
0.849 
0.86 
0.857 
0.872 
0.86 

According to the Figure 6 and Table 2, evaluation results show that the self-RAG agent obtains more significantly 
improvements over the naive RAG model on most metrics across the three datasets. Specifically, it surpasses the 
naive RAG by 7.3%, 6.3%, and 9.4% in answer relevancy, 4.6%, 6.8%, and 5.5% in faithfulness, 2.2%, 3.3%, and 2.4% 
in context precision, and 2.4%, 2.1%, and 3.3% in context recall on QReCC, CoQA, and self-constructed dataset, 
respectively. The superior performance on most metrics demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed self-asking 
and self-verification mechanism in enabling more targeted and reliable context retrieval and answer inference. 

Furthermore, by introducing the custom function calling mechanism that optimizes the Ollama output, the self-
RAG agent obtains additional 9.0%, 10.2%, and 13.3% gains in answer relevancy, 6.0%, 7.1%, and 6.7% increases 

in faithfulness, 1.9%, 5.3%, and 3.0% improvements in context precision, as well as 4.8%, 5.6%, and 4.6% boosts in 
context recall on the three datasets compared to the naive RAG model. These results validate that dynamically 
adjusting question and context inputs to the Ollama model based on conversation states can effectively guide it to 
generate more accurate, informative, and coherent responses that better satisfy user needs. 

This performance demonstrates that our optimizations enhance general conversational AI capabilities while 
excelling in domain-specific tasks. The consistent improvement across datasets suggests that our approach 
successfully balances domain-specific optimization with general language understanding. 

4 DISCUSSION 

Our innovative approach to handling complex automotive queries is exemplified in Figure 7, which depicts the Self-
RAG process flow with custom function calling, applied to an Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) query. This diagram 
showcases the integration of our custom ChatFunction within the Self-RAG framework, demonstrating how it 
dynamically adjusts the detail and focus of responses based on the system's self-assessment and retry count. The 
process illuminates the system's capability to iteratively refine its answers, ensuring high relevance and accuracy 

in the context of specialized automotive knowledge. 

 
«Example»
1. User Query

«Example»
3. Retrieved Fragments

2. Document
Retrieval

Explain ABS working principle
and safety advantages

ABS prevents wheel lock...

ABS components...

«Example»
6. Initial Answer

Self-RAG Loop

ABS prevents wheel lock,
improves safety

ABS reduces braking distance...

«Highlight»
4. Relevance
Scoring

«Highlight»
5. Generate
Initial Answer

«Highlight»
8. Self-reflection
and Optimization

«Highlight»
7. Quality
Assessment

«Example»
9. Optimized Answer

ABS prevents wheel lock,
uses sensors and ECU,
reduces braking distance
by 10-20%

Custom Function Calling (ChatFunction):
- Adjusts detail based on retry_count
- Integrates personality and language
- Optimizes for user needs

10. Final
Output

Figure 7: Optimized Self-RAG Process Flow with Custom Function Calling - examples. 

When comparing performance across datasets, we observed the fact that while our models were optimized for 

automotive applications, they also showed improvements on the QReCC and CoQA datasets: 

• The most significant improvements were on the AID, aligning with our focus on automotive applications. 
• Performance gains on QReCC and CoQA, while smaller, were still substantial, indicating the robustness of our 

approach. 

• The Self-RAG Agent showed the most consistent performance across all datasets, highlighting its adaptability 

to various query types and domains. 

These results validate our approach of using diverse datasets for evaluation. While our primary focus remains on 

optimizing for automotive applications, the improvements seen across datasets suggest that our methods enhance 
fundamental aspects of information retrieval and generation, benefiting both specialized and general applications. 

 
5 DISCUSSION 

This study presents a comprehensive approach to optimizing RAG techniques for automotive industry applications, 
specifically focusing on PDF chatbots deployed in local, low-performance environments. Our research addresses 
critical challenges in processing complex automotive documentation and responding to industry-specific queries. 

5.1 Key Contributions 

• Enhanced PDF Processing: We developed a novel method combining PDFMiner and Tabula to effectively 
handle multi-column layouts and complex tables prevalent in automotive technical documents. This 
significantly improves information extraction accuracy from industry-specific PDFs. 

• Advanced RAG Optimization: Our Langchain-based RAG system, featuring a custom retriever ensemble and 
context compression pipeline, demonstrates substantial improvements in retrieving and utilizing 
automotive-specific information. 

• Self-RAG Agent Design: The proposed AgenticRAG, enhanced with a custom function calling mechanism, 
shows superior performance in handling complex, multi-step queries typical in automotive engineering and 
manufacturing processes. 

• Cross-Domain Effectiveness: While optimized for automotive applications, our approach also shows 
improvements in general conversational AI tasks, as evidenced by performance gains on QReCC and CoQA 
datasets. 

5.2 Implications for the Automotive Industry 

Our research has significant implications for the automotive sector: 

1. Improved Information Access: The optimized PDF chatbot can greatly enhance access to technical 

information for engineers, technicians, and other stakeholders in the automotive industry. 

2. Enhanced Decision Making: By providing more accurate and contextually relevant information, our system 

can support better decision-making in design, manufacturing, and quality control processes. 

3. Resource Efficiency: The ability to deploy these advanced capabilities in low-performance, local 

environments addresses the industry's needs for data privacy and resource constraints. 

5.3 Limitations and Future Work 

While our study demonstrates significant advancements, there are areas for further research: 

1. Expanding Domain Coverage: Future work could focus on adapting the system to cover a broader range of 

automotive sub-domains, such as electric vehicle technology or autonomous driving systems. 

2. Real-Time Performance Optimization: Further research is needed to enhance the system's real-time 

performance in resource-constrained industrial environments. 

3. Multi-Modal Integration: Incorporating the ability to process and respond to queries about visual elements 

in technical diagrams and schematics could greatly enhance the system's utility. 

4. Longitudinal Study: A long-term study in real automotive manufacturing settings could provide insights into 

the system's impact on operational efficiency and decision-making processes. 

5. Ethical and Privacy Considerations: As the system deals with proprietary information, future work should 

explore advanced methods for ensuring data privacy and ethical use of AI in industrial settings. 

In conclusion, this research represents a significant step forward in applying advanced natural language processing 
techniques to the specific needs of the automotive industry. By bridging the gap between cutting-edge AI 
capabilities and the practical constraints of industrial environments, our work contributes to the ongoing digital 
transformation of the automotive sector. The demonstrated improvements in handling complex, domain-specific 
information retrieval and query resolution pave the way for more intelligent, efficient, and responsive information 
systems in automotive manufacturing and engineering. 

REFERENCES 
[1] C. Llopis-Albert, F. Rubio, and F. Valero. 2021. Impact Of Digital Transformation On The Automotive Industry. Technological Forecasting and 

Social Change 162 (2021), 120343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120343 

[2] 

 D. G. Schniederjans, C. Curado, and M. Khalajhedayati. 2020. Supply Chain Digitisation Trends: An Integration of Knowledge Management. 
International Journal of Production Economics 220 (2020), 107439. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.07.001 

[3] A. Zahra and M. Saeedeh. 2021. Text-Based Question Answering From Information Retrieval And Deep Neural Network Perspectives: A Survey. 

Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 11, 6 (2021), e1412. https://doi.org/10.1002/widm.1412 

[4] M. Shanahan. 2024. Talking about Large Language Models. Communications of 

the ACM 67, 2 

(2024), 68-79. 

https://doi.org/10.1145/3631338 

[5] M. Mozes, X. He, B. Kleinberg, and L. D. Griffin. 2023. Use of LLMs for Illicit Purposes: Threats, Prevention Measures, and Vulnerabilities. arXiv 

preprint arXiv:2308.12833 (2023). 

[6] Y. Gao, Y. Xiong, X. Gao, K. Jia, J. Pan, Y. Bi, Y. Dai, J. Sun, M. Wang, and H. Wang. 2023. Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large Language 

Models: A Survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997 (2023). 

[7] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V. Karpukhin, N. Goyal, H. Küttler, M. Lewis, W. Yih, T. Rocktäschel, S. Riedel, and D. Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-
Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Vol. 33. 9459-9474. 

[8] 

S. Raja, A. Mondal, and C. V. Jawahar. 2022. Visual Understanding of Complex Table Structures from Document Images. In Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision. 2543-2552. 

[9] M. Krichen. 2023. Formal Methods and Validation Techniques for Ensuring Automotive Systems Security. Electronics 14, 3 (2023), 666. 

https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics14030666 

[10] H. Liu, M. Galindo, H. Xie, L. Wong, H. Shuai, Y. Li, and W. Cheng. 2024. Lightweight Deep Learning for Resource-Constrained Environments: A 

Survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.07236 (2024). 

[11] V. D. Viellieber and M. Aßenmacher. 2020. Pre-trained language models as knowledge bases for Automotive Complaint Analysis. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2012.02558 (2020). 

[12] M. Ghaleb, H. Zolfagharinia, and S. Taghipour. 2020. Real-time production scheduling in the Industry-4.0 context: Addressing uncertainties in 
job arrivals and machine breakdowns. Computers & Industrial Engineering 123 (2020), 105031. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2020.105031 

[13] J. B. Gruber and M. Weber. 2024. rollama: An R package for using generative large language models through Ollama. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2404.07654 (2024). 

[14] R. Hussain and S. Zeadally. 2019. Autonomous Cars: Research Results, Issues and Future Challenges. IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials 

21, 2 (2019), 1275-1313. https://doi.org/10.1109/COMST.2018.2869360 

[15] Q. Ai, T. Bai, Z. Cao, Y. Chang, J. Chen, Z. Chen, Z. Cheng, S. Dong, Z. Dou, F. Feng, S. Gao, J. Guo, X. He, Y. Lan, C. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Lyu, W. Ma, J. Ma, and 
Z. Ren. 2023. Information Retrieval meets Large Language Models: A strategic report from Chinese IR community. Fundamental Research 4 
(2023), 80-90. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fmre.2023.06.009 

[16] M. Krafft, L. Sajtos, and M. Haenlein. 2020. Challenges and Opportunities for Marketing Scholars in Times of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 

Journal of Interactive Marketing 51 (2020), 1-8. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intmar.2020.06.001 

[17] D. Amalfitano, V. De Simone, R. R. Maietta, S. Scala, and A. R. Fasolino. 2019. Using tool integration for improving traceability management 
e2171. 

Software 151 

experience. 

automotive 

industrial 

Systems 

(2019), 

Journal 

and 

of 

testing processes: An 
https://doi.org/10.1002/smr.2171 

[18] Z. Jiang, F. F. Xu, L. Gao, Z. Sun, Q. Liu, J. Dwivedi-Yu, Y. Yang, J. Callan, and G. Neubig. 2023. Active Retrieval Augmented Generation. In 

Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 7969-7992. 

[19] Z. Wang, J. Araki, Z. Jiang, M. R. Parvez, and G. Neubig. 2023. Learning to Filter Context for Retrieval-Augmented Generation. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2311.08377 (2023). 

[20] A. Asai, Z. Wu, Y. Wang, A. Sil, and H. Hajishirzi. 2023. Self-RAG: Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Reflection. arXiv 

preprint arXiv:2310.11511 (2023). 

[21] D. Rajpathak, Y. Xu, and I. Gibbs. 2020. An Integrated Framework For Automatic Ontology Learning From Unstructured Repair Text Data For 
In Automotive Domain. Expert Systems with Applications 123 (2020), 103338. 

Effective Fault Detection And 
Isolation 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.103338 

[22] S. Siriwardhana, R. Weerasekera, E. Wen, T. Kaluarachchi, R. Rana, and S. Nanayakkara. 2022. Improving the Domain Adaptation of Retrieval 

Augmented Generation 
https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics11203388 

(RAG) Models 

for Open Domain Question Answering. Electronics 11, 20 

(2022), 3388. 

[23] S. Yin, C. Fu, S. Zhao, K. Li, X. Sun, T. Xu, and E. Chen. 2023. A Survey on Multimodal Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.13549 

(2023). 

[24] C. Burgan, J. Kowalski, and W. Liao. 2024. Developing a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) Chatbot App Using Adaptive Large Language 

Models (LLM) and LangChain Framework. IEEE Access 96 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3359176 

[25] B. Wang, G. Li, and Y. Li. 2023. Enabling Conversational Interaction with Mobile UI using Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the 36th 
Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology. Article 432, 17 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3586183.3606716 

[26] D. Lin. 2024. Revolutionizing Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Enhanced PDF Structure Recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.12599 

(2024). 

[27] O. Bensch, M. Popa, and C. Spille. 2021. Key Information Extraction From Documents - Evaluation And Generator. In Proceedings of the 3rd 

International Conference on Deep Learning Theory and Applications. 47-53. https://doi.org/10.5220/0010517700470053 

[28] M. Faysse, G. Viaud, C. Hudelot, and P. Colombo. 2023. Revisiting Instruction Fine-tuned Model Evaluation to Guide Industrial Applications. In 

Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 9033-9048. 

[29] A. Kumar and B. Starly. 2021. FabNER: information extraction from manufacturing process science domain literature using named entity 

recognition. Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing 33 (2021), 2393-2407. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10845-021-01867-z 

[30] D. Belhadj, A. Belaïd, and Y. Belaïd. 2023. Improving Information Extraction from Semi-structured Documents Using Attention Based Semi-

variational Graph Auto-Encoder. In Document Analysis Systems. 113-129. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-41682-8_8 

[31] S. Zeng, J. Zhang, P. He, Y. Xing, Y. Liu, H. Xu, J. Ren, S. Wang, D. Yin, Y. Chang, and J. Tang. 2024. The Good and The Bad: Exploring Privacy Issues 

in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG). arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.16893 (2024). 

[32] S. Borgeaud, A. Mensch, J. Hoffmann, T. Cai, E. Rutherford, K. Millican, G. van den Driessche, J. Lespiau, B. Damoc, A. Clark, D. de Las Casas, A. 
Guy, J. Menick, R. Ring, T. Hennigan, S. Huang, L. Maggiore, C. Jones, A. Cassirer, A. Brock, M. Paganini, G. Irving, O. Vinyals, S. Osindero, K. 
Simonyan, J. W. Rae, E. Elsen, and L. Sifre. 2022. Improving Language Models by Retrieving from Trillions of Tokens. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2112.04426 (2022). 

[33] G. Izacard, P. Lewis, M. Lomeli, L. Hosseini, F. Petroni, T. Schick, J. Dwivedi-Yu, A. Joulin, S. Riedel, and E. Grave. 2023. ATLAS: Few-shot Learning 

with Retrieval Augmented Language Models. Journal of Machine Learning Research 24 (2023), 251:1-251:43. 

[34] S. R. Ahmad. 2024. Enhancing Multilingual Information Retrieval in Mixed Human Resources Environments: A RAG Model Implementation for 

Multicultural Enterprise. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01511 (2024). 

[35] W. Su, Y. Tang, Q. Ai, Z. Wu, and Y. Liu. 2024. DRAGIN: Dynamic Retrieval Augmented Generation based on the Information Needs of Large 

Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.10081 (2024). 

[36] K. Noorbakhsh, M. Sulaiman, M. Sharifi, K. Roy, and P. Jamshidi. 2023. Pretrained Language Models are Symbolic Mathematics Solvers too!. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.03501 (2023). 

[37] G. Gamage, N. Mills, D. De Silva, M. Manic, H. Moraliyage, A. Jennings, and D. Alahakoon. 2024. Multi-Agent RAG Chatbot Architecture for 
Decision Support in Net-Zero Emission Energy Systems. In 2024 IEEE Power & Energy Society Innovative Smart Grid Technologies Conference 
(ISGT). 1-6. https://doi.org/10.1109/ISGT58387.2024.10471952 

[38] B. Zhuang, J. Liu, Z. Pan, H. He, Y. Weng, and C. Shen. 2023. A survey on efficient training of transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF 

International Conference on Computer Vision. 6823-6831. 

[39] W. Chen, H. Hu, X. Chen, P. Verga, and W. W. Cohen. 2022. MuRAG: Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generator for Open Question Answering 

over Images and Text. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 5558-5570. 

[40] S. Xiao, Z. Liu, P. Zhang, and N. Muennighoff. 2023. C-Pack: Packaged Resources To Advance General Chinese Embedding. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2309.07597 (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.07597 

[41] V. Karpukhin, B. Oğuz, S. Min, L. Wu, S. Edunov, D. Chen, and W. Yih. 2020. Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering. In 
(EMNLP). 6769-6781. 

the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods 

in Natural Language Processing 

Proceedings of 
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.550 

[42] A. Asai, Z. Wu, Y. Wang, A. Sil, and H. Hajishirzi. 2023. Self-RAG: Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Reflection. arXiv 

preprint arXiv:2310.11511 (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.11511 

[43] W. Chen, Z. Li, and M. Ma. 2024. Octopus: On-device language model for function calling of software APIs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.01549 

(2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2404.01549 

[44] R. Anantha, S. Vakulenko, Z. Tu, S. Longpre, S. Pulman, and S. Chappidi. 2021. Open-Domain Question Answering Goes Conversational via 
Question Rewriting. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: 
Human Language Technologies. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-main.44 

[45] S. Reddy, D. Chen, and C.D. Manning. 2019. CoQA: A Conversational Question Answering Challenge. Transactions of the Association of 

Computational Linguistics 7 (2019), 249-266. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00266