4
2
0
2

l
u
J

8
2

]

Y
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
2
6
4
1
0
.
8
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher
Education

SAGNIK DAKSHIT, The University of Texas at Tyler, USA

The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly impacted the field of Natural Language Processing and has

transformed conversational tasks across various domains because of their widespread integration in applications and public access.

The discussion surrounding the application of LLMs in education has raised ethical concerns, particularly concerning plagiarism and

policy compliance. Despite the prowess of LLMs in conversational tasks, the limitations of reliability and hallucinations exacerbate the

need to guardrail conversations, motivating our investigation of RAG in computer science higher education. We developed Retrieval

Augmented Generation (RAG) applications for the two tasks of virtual teaching assistants and teaching aids. In our study, we collected

the ratings and opinions of faculty members in undergraduate and graduate computer science university courses at various levels,

using our personalized RAG systems for each course. This study is the first to gather faculty feedback on the application of LLM-based

RAG in education. The investigation revealed that while faculty members acknowledge the potential of RAG systems as virtual

teaching assistants and teaching aids, certain barriers and features are suggested for their full-scale deployment. These findings

contribute to the ongoing discussion on the integration of advanced language models in educational settings, highlighting the need

for careful consideration of ethical implications and the development of appropriate safeguards to ensure responsible and effective

implementation.

CCS Concepts: • Applied computing → Computer-assisted instruction; Interactive learning environments; • Computing
methodologies → Natural language generation; Neural networks.

Additional Key Words and Phrases: Large Language Models, Retrieval Augmented Generation, Neural Networks, Education, Learning

ACM Reference Format:

Sagnik Dakshit. 2024. Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher Education. In Proceedings of ACM

SIGITE 2024 (Accepted ACM SIGITE). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

1 Introduction

Deep learning (DL), a subset of Artificial Intelligence (AI), has greatly impacted the industry by allowing the extraction

of meaningful patterns from real-world data, resulting in widespread applications in numerous domains and tasks,

including education. The integration of deep learning into educational settings offers numerous opportunities to improve

teaching and learning processes, including personalizing instruction, optimizing learning environments, and facilitating

the development of innovative educational technologies. With the ability to automatically learn complex patterns and

representations from large amounts of data, deep learning holds tremendous potential for enhancing teaching, learning,

and educational outcomes. One recent disruptive innovation with the potential to significantly impact education is that

of Large Language Models (LLMs), which have demonstrated significant potential in conversational natural language

processing (NLP) tasks.

Author’s Contact Information: Sagnik Dakshit, sdakshit@uttyler.edu, The University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, Texas, USA.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on
servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.

© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

S. Dakshit

Large language models have been instrumental in revolutionizing the field of natural language processing, driving

remarkable advancements in text generation, comprehension, and interpretation. By leveraging extensive datasets and

advanced deep-learning architectures, particularly transformer models, LLMs can produce human-like text and handle

a diverse array of tasks. From answering complex questions and summarizing lengthy documents to participating in

meaningful dialogues, LLMs demonstrate an unprecedented ability to understand and generate natural languages. This

transformative capability has not only improved automated communication systems but has also facilitated significant

progress in applications such as machine translation, sentiment analysis, content creation, and conversational agents.

The continuous evolution of LLMs and their applications promises greater potential for innovation and efficiency

across various domains. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is an emerging application paradigm that seeks to

combine the strengths of large-language models (LLMs) with external knowledge sources. LLMs, which are powerful

for generating coherent and contextually relevant text, face challenges [9] in providing accurate, up-to-date, and

domain-specific information because of their reliance on static training data. RAG addresses these limitations through

a retrieval mechanism that enables the model to access external databases or knowledge sources at inference time,

thereby enhancing its ability to produce more precise and informative responses. This integration of retrieval and

generation opens new possibilities for applications such as question answering, summarization, and dialogue systems,

allowing for a more dynamic and responsive approach to content generation that can pave a new path in education.

In this study, we aim to provide educators, researchers, policymakers, and technology developers with insights into

the potential and limitations of LLMs to reshape higher computer science education and foster innovation in teaching

and learning. We developed specialized RAG models for faculty members and considered their feedback and opinions

on identifying its use cases, potentials, and limitations. Through our discussions on the potential and limitations of

LLMs in higher computer science education, we hope to accelerate the progress in digital innovation in higher computer

science education that empowers learners and educators in the digital age. We obtained and reported faculty ratings and

perspectives on two tasks of virtual teaching assistants and teaching aids as applications in higher educational settings.

To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that conducts deployed application-based studies and reports faculty

opinions and ratings on the use of LLM-based RAG systems in computer science higher education discuss the potential

and limitations in the use of LLM-based RAG in computer science higher education.

1.1 Contribution

The contributions of this study can be summarized as follows:

• We developed a large language model-based Retrieval Augmented Generation system for computer science

higher education Junior, Senior and Graduate level classes.

• We investigated the potential of RAG to serve as a virtual teaching assistant and as a teaching aid to faculty

members in higher education.

• We discuss the limitations and improvements required for the integration of RAG for the advancement of digital

education based on the collected faculty feedback and ratings.

The rest of the paper is structured with an illustration of our methodology in Section 3 followed by a presentation

of the collected faculty opinions in Section 4. Finally, we discuss the potential improvements required for large-scale

deployment and our future work in Section 5.

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher Education

3

2 Related Works

In this section, we discuss relevant research on the application of LLM in general, and specifically for improving higher

education. Owing to the nascent widespread development of LLMs and lack of widespread conversational education

data, their applications and implications in education have been explored with limited capacity. Dempere et. al [6]

presented a comprehensive survey on the impact of AI chatbots like ChatGPT on Higher Education Institutes (HEIs)

by employing a scoping review of the current literature. Most reported studies do not consider faculty opinions, nor

do they investigate RAG systems for specific tasks. The predominant discussion has been on the ethics [14] of LLM

integration in education from the perspective of plagiarism, and it has also been suggested to go to old school pens and

papers over digital methods [13, 15]. In [7], all applications and ethics of ChatGPT across all Australian universities over

the first 100 days of its release were thoroughly discussed. A perspective study on the potential of ChatGPT to facilitate

adaptive learning, provide personalised feedback, support research and data analysis, offer automated administrative

services, and aid in developing innovative assessments are presented in [18]. While the above studies mostly explore

the challenges and ethical implementations of GPT in higher education, [19] comprehensively examined the works

on potential from student-facing, teacher-facing, and system-facing tools perspectives. These studies mostly focus

on the limitations, applications, and ethics from a university policy-making view and do not pertain to any specific

educational programs where the role and applications can be different. Moreover, no user study has been conducted,

and the potential of LLM as a virtual assistant as a student and teaching aid has not been explored.

In the context of computer science higher education, mitigation of plagiarism [16], the possibility of generating

class lectures using LLM has been explored in [4], and learner performance exploration [10] have been explored. In

[1], a non-exhaustive comparison of some LLMs was investigated for use in education but not from the perspective

of virtual teaching assistants or teaching aids. The authors in [3] explored patterns of GPT usage by students over

a semester-long computer science class. The closest study to our approach was conducted by Lu et al.. al [12], also

conducted a semester long survey and collected conversational and message-level feedback rating from students on

five prongs namely: 1) comprehension, 2) critical thinking, 3) syntax mastery, 4) independent learning, and 5) TA

replacement likelihood. Their study demonstrated a shift towards human assistant support over virtual assistants. In

contrast to their investigation of the opinions of faculty members and, unlike their use of OpenAI’s GPT, we explore

the potential of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), which has the added benefit of curbing hallucinations and

limiting responses to faculty-approved answers.

Authors Liu et. al explored the use of RAG in popular CS50 class [11] and collected feedback from students verifying

that “guardrailed” approach of RAG is superior over prohibiting the use of LLMs. However, no perspective or feedback

from the faculty members was collected to identify the potential or limitations of this study. Furthermore, their task

did not explore the specific point of teaching aid to faculty members or teaching assistants. Another notable study

evaluated and graded students’ open-ended written answers using RAG models [8]. In contrast to the above studies,

our contributions focus on faculty feedback and opinions to understand the potential and limitations of RAG in their

use as virtual teaching aids and virtual teaching assistants.

3 Methodology

3.1 Research Design

In this section, we discuss our experimental setup to investigate the potential and challenges of using LLM-based RAG

in computer science higher education from the perspective of faculty members in a university setting. We designed

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

4

S. Dakshit

Fig. 1. Our individual RAG pipeline using Gemini LLM developed on class materials provided by faculty members.

our experiments to evaluate the feasibility of using LLM-based RAG as a teaching assistant and teaching aid. For our

purposes, we defined the Teaching Assistant as an aid to faculty members in answering questions commonly asked

by students. In comparison, Teaching Aid is defined as aid to faculties in the generation of study guides, quizlets, and

assignment or exam questions. We did not investigate the students’ perspectives of virtual RAG teaching assistants in

this study. Through this study, we attempted to answer three research questions:

• RQ1: Can RAG be used as Teaching Aid for faculty in computer science higher education.
• RQ2: Can RAG be used as Virtual Teaching Assistant for students in computer science higher education.
• RQ2: Are there any factors which decides the success of RAG as Virtual Teaching Assistant or Teaching Aid.

We recruited five faculty members in the Computer Science Department at The University of Texas at Tyler, USA,

across Junior (3000), Senior (4000), and Graduate (5000, 6000) level courses. We developed individual RAG models,

as illustrated in Section 3.2, for faculty members, and designed two tasks to investigate the potential of RAG for our

research questions:

• Task A: Can RAG aid in generation of questions for RQ1.
• Task B: Can RAG aid in answering questions of students RQ2.

The faculty members were allowed to probe the respective RAG systems for any tasks they deemed fit and specifically

for the above two tasks. The investigation period were followed by a questionnaire, as illustrated in Section 3.3 to

obtain ratings and opinions on the challenges, limitations, and potential improvements required for the use of RAG as

faculty and student aid for our two tasks. The questionnaire allowed the faculty to rate the tasks on a Likert scale for

RQ1 and RQ2. While feedback for RQ1 and RQ2 were obtained through direct questioning, the answer to RQ3 was

interpreted from the difference in ratings for Task A and B between the faculty members at different class levels and we

discuss it further in Section 5.

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher Education

5

3.2 RAG Model

By leveraging the vast amounts of structured and unstructured data available, RAG offers the potential to improve

the quality and accuracy of language model outputs, bridging the gap between language generation and real-world

knowledge. We use the open-source Gemini LLM model [20] to develop our RAG system, which is a cutting-edge large

language model developed with an emphasis on adaptability, efficiency, and performance, influencing our choice over

other LLM models. Moreover, Gemini was most particularly selected for our investigation owing to its reported prowess

in solving mathematical problems [2] along with other NLP tasks, which is an important task for educational settings,

and other studies on Question Answering tasks yielding significantly high performance [17] with the added advantage

of being free, unlike outperforming models such as GPT-4.0, which is paid for API calls. Each faculty member in this

study provided a set of slides or materials used in classroom teaching to develop their personalized RAG system. The

slides contain text-based content, formulas, algorithms, code, graphs, and statistical data.

3.3 Questionnaire

In this section, we discuss our questionnaire, which was presented to faculty members following their usage of the RAG

system. This study incorporated factors such as perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, attitudes, and intention

to use, following the TAM model [5]. The questionnaire contained three types of questions. For tasks A and B, as

introduced in Section 3.1, the items were assessed using a 5-point Likert scale, with scores ranging from 1 to 5 as follows:

strongly disagree = 1, disagree = 2, neutral = 3, agree = 4, and strongly agree = 5. Suggestions for improvements required

for feasible use in daily teaching assistance, as teaching assistants, and general teaching aids were obtained through

written answers to understand the limitations and potential of RAG LLMs. We also present two Yes and No answer

questions seeking votes on the potential of RAG LLM as a teaching aid and teaching assistants in computer science

higher education classes. No fixed period for usage of the RAG system was defined, and faculty members participating

populated the questionnaire on their own timeline once they were satisfied with their investigation.

4 Faculty Perspective: Potential and Limitation Discussions

In this section, we present the ratings and feedback obtained from the faculty members and are presented in four

subsections of Task ratings (Section 4.1), RQ1 and RQ2 rating (Section 4.2), Faculty Feedback (Section 4.3), and lastly

RQ3 Interpretation (Section 4.4).

4.1 Task Ratings

Table 1. Faculty opinion on Task A and Task B by different course level. A ✓represents a vote in the ability of the RAG and a X denotes
a no-confidence on the task.

Faculty Course Level Task A Task B
Faculty 1
Faculty 2
Faculty 3
Faculty 4
Faculty 5

3000
4000
5000
5000
3000

✓
✓
X
X
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

6

S. Dakshit

Fig. 2. Faculty Feedback Rating on 5-Point Likert Scale for 4 questions obtained through Questionnaire: Top Left: Can LLMs aid
generate assignment questions?, Top Right: Can LLMs aid in answering questions of students ?, Bottom left: Can LLMs be used as
teaching assitant ?,and Bottom Right: Can LLMs be used as teaching aid for faculty in computer science classes ?

Our investigation and survey were conducted with five faculty members, allowing for the development of individual-

ized RAG models, as well as a deeper dive into understanding the potential and challenges of RAG in higher educational

settings, as illustrated in Section 3. Our five-member faculty cohort study results demonstrated an 80% acceptance rate

for Task A and 100% acceptance rate for Task B, with any rating over three counted towards acceptance and below

three to be rejected. The key ratings are shown in Fig. 2 and the feedback can be illustrated as follows for our two tasks:

• Task A: Three faculty members found it useful for task A of generating of assignment questions with a rating of
four out of five, one faculty member rated the system one (lowest rating score) and another faculty member

provided a rating of three as presented in Fig. 2 (Top Left).

• Task B: Three faculty members found RAG models to be helpful for task B of answering student questions and
answers, and provided a high rating of five (highest rating score) out of five possible points and one faculty

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher Education

7

member rated it a 3 (neutral). The faculty members who did not find it useful rated it again, as shown in Fig. 2

(Top Right).

4.2 RQ 1 and RQ 2 Rating

In this subsection, based on the ratings provided by the faculty, we present consolidated RQ1 and RQ2 (Research

Questions). Faculty ratings are illustrated as follows:

• RQ1: A 60% agreement was recorded in favor of using RAG as a teaching aid for faculty in computer science
higher education. Two faculty members did not find a system capable of undertaking Task A and disagreed with

this potential application, as illustrated in Fig. 2 (Bottom Left).

• RQ2: A 80% agreement was reached by all cohort faculty members in the potential of our RAG system as a virtual

teaching assistant for computer science higher education as illustrated in Fig. 2 (Bottom Right).

A majority agreement allows us to see the potential of the retrieval augmented generation technique using state-of-

the-art LLMs in higher-educational settings. There seems to be better acceptance owing to higher potential as virtual

Teaching Assistant over Teaching Aid. The feedback and opinions reported in Section 4.3 allow us to understand the

improvements that would allow for full-scale deployment and acceptance with improved ratings.

4.3 Faculty Perspectives

To delve into reasoning for rating and understanding the potential and challenges of RAG systems in computer science

higher education, we investigate the reported feedback on the same. The feedback directly provides information on the

improvements needed for large-scale deployment and implementation, with improved faculty ratings. The feedback

from each of the cohort study members was filtered and presented to maintain relevance to the two tasks and can be

summarized as follows:

• Faculty 1: The RAG system can help answer student’s questions when trying to complete homework assignments
but would benefit from multiple sources of information such as multiple instructor slides and multiple textbooks.

Furthermore, it needs a mechanism for reporting so that faculty can check usage/correctness of answers provided

to students, and needs a mechanism for the interface so that students can email bot’s responses to faculty

members if they feel that they are being given incorrect information.

• Faculty 2: While the systems can help students as a Teaching Assistant to some extent, it needs better capabilities

to solve simple problems based on equations that were discussed in the class.

• Faculty 3: The system can answer basic questions and would benefit from integrating general knowledge. The

faculty members also mentioned that they would not use this bot in this form in their courses.

• Faculty 4: No, it still needs improvement and should be trained with more variations of prompts. For now, it is

only text-based; it needs to be compatible with non-text files.

• Faculty 5: The system have capability of answering questions for students and generating basic question answers
as quizlets for students. However, the model needs the context of different types of questions, such as MCQs

and short answers, to generate questions or assignments. Moreover, the model does not perform well on the

information from the images.

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

8

4.4 RQ3 Interpretation

S. Dakshit

In this section, we analyze the interpretation of RQ3 based on faculty feedback and ratings of RQ1 and RQ2, as discussed

in the previous sections. Faculty members 3 and 4, both teaching graduate-level classes, reported a lack of confidence in

Task A, as shown in Table 1. Their feedback indicates that improvements are needed through training on mixed data,

with the primary limitation being reliance on text-format files. This limitation was further corroborated by Faculty 5,

who highlighted its inadequacy in inferring knowledge from images. Additionally, Faculty 2 suggested the need for

enhanced capabilities to solve simple problems based on equations. Collectively, these feedback points suggest that

direct application of RAG is more suitable for theoretical classes that do not extensively use images and equations.

While we do not quantify performance, our focus is on reporting faculty views and understanding the potential and

limitations of RAG in a higher education setting.

5 Discussion and Future Work

From the collected ratings and feedback, it is evident that while RAG demonstrates significant potential as both a

Teaching Assistant and Teaching Aid, there are specific suggestions that need to be addressed for effective deployment and

widespread integration in higher education. One prominent recommendation is the adoption of an expert-in-the-loop

approach, which allows faculty members to monitor usage and verify the correctness of the model’s responses, as

highlighted by Faculty 1. Additionally, integrating multiple sources of knowledge beyond class slides, such as textbooks

and reference documents, could enhance the system’s utility. Another critical area of improvement is the capacity of

the model to infer knowledge from images and equations.

For the specific task of serving as a teaching aid, the models should be fine-tuned to differentiate between various

types of questions, including multiple-choice questions (MCQs) and, short-answer, long-answer, and fill-in-the-blank

questions. Our results from RQ3 indicate that the current limitations in inferring equations and their knowledge suggest

a better potential for RAG in theoretical classes.

In future work, we plan to incorporate these suggestions and conduct large-scale, IRB-approved studies involving

students from the computer science department and school of medicine. This will help us to further refine the system

and evaluate its effectiveness in real-world educational settings.

6 Conclusion

Recent transformative developments in Deep Learning (DL) and Large Language Models (LLMs) have led to their

integration in the realm of education. LLMs, with their advanced capabilities in natural language processing, have

further amplified these prospects by enabling sophisticated text generation, comprehension, and interpretation tasks.

This study specifically explored the application of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), an emerging paradigm that

combines the strengths of LLMs with external knowledge sources, thereby enhancing models’ ability to generate precise

and informative responses. To the best of the author’s knowledge, this is the first work on the investigation of faculty

perspectives for specialized RAG models tailored for computer science higher education as Virtual Teaching Assistant

and Teaching Aid. We developed LLM-based RAG systems for use in junior, senior, and graduate-level computer science

classes, and recruited faculty members to assess the potential of the systems. We identified the limitations and areas for

improvement in integrating RAG systems into digital education, with the aim of facilitating their large-scale deployment

and effectiveness. The feedback and ratings collected from faculty members highlighted both the promise and current

shortcomings of RAG models, suggesting areas for further improvement to enhance their effectiveness and reliability in

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024

Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of RAG in Computer Science Higher Education

9

educational applications. Through our detailed discussion of faculty perspectives and the identification of necessary

improvements, we hope to accelerate progress towards a more effective and widely accepted use of these technologies

in higher education.

References

[1] Vibhor Agarwal, Nakul Thureja, Madhav Krishan Garg, Sahiti Dharmavaram, Dhruv Kumar, et al. 2024. " Which LLM should I use?": Evaluating

LLMs for tasks performed by Undergraduate Computer Science Students in India. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.01687 (2024).

[2] Imtiaz Ahmed and Raisa Islam. 2024. Gemini-the most powerful LLM: Myth or Truth. Authorea Preprints (2024).
[3] Chaitanya Arora, Utkarsh Venaik, Pavit Singh, Sahil Goyal, Jatin Tyagi, Shyama Goel, Ujjwal Singhal, and Dhruv Kumar. 2024. Analyzing LLM

Usage in an Advanced Computing Class in India. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.04603 (2024).

[4] Gabrielle Christensen, Grace Corpron, Jessica Engel, and Peter Hoila. 2023. The LLM-Based Mini-Lecture Generation for Enhanced Learning Project.

(2023).

[5] Fred D Davis. 1989. Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user acceptance of information technology. MIS quarterly (1989), 319–340.
[6] Juan Dempere, Kennedy Modugu, Allam Hesham, and Lakshmana Kumar Ramasamy. 2023. The impact of ChatGPT on higher education. In Frontiers

in Education, Vol. 8. Frontiers Media SA, 1206936.

[7] Samuel Fowler, Malgorzata Korolkiewicz, and Rebecca Marrone. 2023. First 100 days of ChatGPT at Australian universities: An analysis of policy

landscape and media discussions about the role of AI in higher education. Learning Letters (2023).

[8] Jussi S Jauhiainen and Agustín Garagorry Guerra. 2024. Evaluating Students’ Open-ended Written Responses with LLMs: Using the RAG Framework

for GPT-3.5, GPT-4, Claude-3, and Mistral-Large. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.05444 (2024).

[9] Jean Kaddour, Joshua Harris, Maximilian Mozes, Herbie Bradley, Roberta Raileanu, and Robert McHardy. 2023. Challenges and applications of large

language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.10169 (2023).

[10] Harsh Kumar, Ilya Musabirov, Mohi Reza, Jiakai Shi, Anastasia Kuzminykh, Joseph Jay Williams, and Michael Liut. 2023. Impact of guidance and

interaction strategies for LLM use on Learner Performance and perception. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13712 (2023).

[11] Rongxin Liu, Carter Zenke, Charlie Liu, Andrew Holmes, Patrick Thornton, and David J Malan. 2024. Teaching CS50 with AI: leveraging generative
artificial intelligence in computer science education. In Proceedings of the 55th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education V. 1.
750–756.

[12] Wenhan Lyu, Yimeng Wang, Tingting Rachel Chung, Yifan Sun, and Yixuan Zhang. 2024. Evaluating the Effectiveness of LLMs in Introductory

Computer Science Education: A Semester-Long Field Study. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.13414 (2024).

[13] Silvia Milano, Joshua A McGrane, and Sabina Leonelli. 2023. Large language models challenge the future of higher education. Nature Machine

Intelligence 5, 4 (2023), 333–334.

[14] Gustave Florentin Nkoulou Mvondo, Ben Niu, and Salman Eivazinezhad. 2023. Exploring The Ethical Use Of LLM Chatbots In Higher Education.

Available at SSRN4548263 (2023) (2023).

[15] Gustave Florentin Nkoulou Mvondo, Ben Niu, and Salman Eivazinezhad. 2023. Generative Conversational AI And Academic Integrity: A Mixed

Method Investigation To Understand The Ethical Use of LLM Chatbots In Higher Education. Available at SSRN 4548263 (2023).

[16] Michael Sheinman Orenstrakh, Oscar Karnalim, Carlos Anibal Suarez, and Michael Liut. 2023. Detecting llm-generated text in computing education:

A comparative study for chatgpt cases. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07411 (2023).

[17] Ankit Pal and Malaikannan Sankarasubbu. 2024. Gemini Goes to Med School: Exploring the Capabilities of Multimodal Large Language Models on

Medical Challenge Problems & Hallucinations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.07023 (2024).

[18] Tareq Rasul, Sumesh Nair, Diane Kalendra, Mulyadi Robin, Fernando de Oliveira Santini, Wagner Junior Ladeira, Mingwei Sun, Ingrid Day,
Raouf Ahmad Rather, and Liz Heathcote. 2023. The role of ChatGPT in higher education: Benefits, challenges, and future research directions. Journal
of Applied Learning and Teaching 6, 1 (2023).

[19] Elham Tajik et al. 2024. A comprehensive Examination of the potential application of Chat GPT in Higher Education Institutions. (2024).
[20] Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Yonghui Wu, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja

Hauth, et al. 2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805 (2023).

Received 20 February 2007; revised 12 March 2009; accepted 5 June 2009

Manuscript Accepted at ACM SIGITE 2024