Embodied-RAG: General Non-parametric Embodied
Memory for Retrieval and Generation

Quanting Xie1, So Yeon Min1, Pengliang Ji1, Yue Yang2, Tianyi Zhang1, Kedi Xu1, Aarav Bajaj1, Ruslan
Salakhutdinov1, Matthew Johnson-Roberson1, and Yonatan Bisk1

1

5
2
0
2

n
a
J

1
2

]

O
R
.
s
c
[

5
v
3
1
3
8
1
.
9
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract—There is no limit to how much a robot might explore
and learn, but all of that knowledge needs to be searchable
and actionable. Within language research, retrieval augmented
generation (RAG) has become the workhouse of large-scale
non-parametric knowledge, however existing techniques do not
directly transfer to the embodied domain, which is multimodal,
data is highly correlated, and perception requires abstraction.

To address these challenges, we introduce Embodied-RAG,
a framework that enhances the foundational model of an em-
bodied agent with a non-parametric memory system capable
of autonomously constructing hierarchical knowledge for both
navigation and language generation. Embodied-RAG handles a
full range of spatial and semantic resolutions across diverse
environments and query types, whether for a specific object or a
holistic description of ambiance. At its core, Embodied-RAG’s
memory is structured as a semantic forest, storing language
descriptions at varying levels of detail. This hierarchical organi-
zation allows the system to efficiently generate context-sensitive
outputs across different robotic platforms. We demonstrate that
Embodied-RAG effectively bridges RAG to the robotics domain,
successfully handling over 250 explanation and navigation queries
across kimometer-level environments, highlighting its promise for
general-purpose non-parametric system for embodied agents.

Index Terms—Autonomous Agents, RAG, Embodied memory,

Language-guided Robotics

I. INTRODUCTION

It is difficult for the human mind to determine what in-
formation should be remembered from our perceptually rich
lived experiences. Where details are necessary, we revisit an
experience or build explicit external representations like maps
to capture the intricacies. This process begs questions of what
the right semantic level and context should be indexed. Robots
are now in the same but opposite position. While dense SLAM
and metric maps can be constructed, they become intractable
to scale, and they do not track with larger semantic categories
we find most useful in human memory – we discard almost
all low-level information as redundant and easy to rediscover.
Within Natural Language Processing (NLP), Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG)
integrates non-
parametric memory into Large Language Models (LLMs),

[1]–[3]

This material is based upon work supported by the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency (DARPA) under Agreement No. HR00112490375
and partially supported by funding from Lockheed Martin Corporation.

1Quanting Xie, So Yeon Min, Pengliang Ji, Tianyi Zhang, Kedi Xu,
Aarav Bajaj, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Matthew Johnson-Roberson, and Yonatan
Bisk are with Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA

2Yue Yang with Apochs, Inc, CA 94560, USA
Corresponding author: quantinx@andrew.cmu.edu
https://quanting-xie.github.io/Embodied-RAG-web/

Category

Metrics Maps

Semantic
Metric Maps

RAG

Embodied-
RAG

Retrieval
P (A|Q)
P (A|L)
P (A|L, Q)
P (A|S, Q)
P (A|S, L, Q)

Generation
Text
Waypoint
Path

×
✓
×
×
×

×
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
×
×

×
✓
✓

✓
×
×
✓
×

✓
×
×

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓

TABLE I: Comprehensive comparison of Metrics Maps, Se-
mantic Metric Maps, RAG, and Embodied-RAG frameworks
in terms of retrieval and generation capabilities. Here, Q
represents the query, L denotes the embodied agent’s position,
and S refers to other sensor data.

enabling the use of large text corpora as private knowledge
bases to enhance a model’s memory, relevance, and factual
grounding of model outputs, particularly in scenarios requiring
access to up-to-date or domain-specific knowledge. We ask if
such insights can be leveraged to endow robots with better
scaling semantic memory, and what new technologies need to
be invented to handle embodied experiences.

Applying RAG to robotics presents unique challenges due
to key differences between textual data and embodied expe-
riences. First, embodied experiences are multimodal – How
do we make such data queryable for a RAG system? Unlike
Internet documents, which are distinct and well-structured text,
embodied data often consist of tuples of time, sensor obser-
vations, and robot poses, Et = (τt, st, pt). These multidimen-
sional data need to be efficiently coupled and stored. Further,
current representations of embodied experiences, such as dense
point-cloud maps, fail to abstract the relevant semantics needed
for a natural language query. Although 3D scene graphs [4]
are interpretable, they rely on human-engineered schemas that
do no scale to diverse outdoor environments.

Second, Naive RAG [1] lacks the cross-document structural
awareness needed for building spatially informed knowledge
graphs, and structured graphical RAG methods [5], [6] are
too inefficient to build and query for real-time deployment.
Finally, embodied observations are redundant and repetitive,
which can confuse the retriever when attempting to select the
correct context using semantic similarity alone, requiring extra
reasoning steps during inference.

To address these challenges, we present Embodied-RAG.
Embodied-RAG has two components: Bottom-up Memory

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Fig. 1: Overview: Our goal is for robots to navigate and communicate effectively in any environment where humans are
present. We introduce Embodied-RAG, a framework for automatically building hierarchical spatial memory and providing both
explanations and navigation across multiple levels of query abstraction. Embodied-RAG supports robotic operations regardless
of the query’s abstraction level, the platform, or the environment.

Building (Fig.2(a)) and Top-down Retrieval (Fig.2(b, c)). Dur-
ing Bottom-up Memory Building, we address the first two
problems: multimodal representation and efficient integration
of structure into embodied experiences. The system first rep-
resents embodied experiences with a multimodal topological
graph, where each node contains robot poses, robot observa-
tions (images), and timestamps. Based on these topological
nodes, a semantic forest is hierarchically clustered based on
spatial proximity. This graph-building process is 7.38X faster
than Graph-RAG and 9.76X faster than Light-RAG on the
same dataset size, and can be extended in real-time. This two-
stage memory system creates an efficient, large-scale, globally
aware, interpretable, and multimodal memory representation
for embodied agents to retrieve from.

In the Top-down Retrieval process, to overcome the third
challenge, we enhance retrieval performance across three
different query types (explicit,
implicit, and global), out-
performing the state-of-the-art RAG baselines [1], [5], [6].
Instead of relying solely on semantic similarity, Embodied-
RAG incorporates a robust reasoning component for retrieval.
This involves parallelized tree traversals with a selection-LLM.
This retrieval process uses abstracted information from the top
nodes to guide retrieval to the correct lower nodes with equal
probabilities. For example, a toothbrush node is more likely
inside a bathroom node, and a bench in a backyard is less
desirable than a bench in a park for quietly reading a book.

To evaluate Embodied-RAG, we present a new dataset
called the Embodied-Experiences Dataset for Embodied-

RAG tasks. It contains topological graphs collected from 14
photorealistic simulated and 5 real environments of varying
scales paired with two hundred queries with ground truth
labeled information.

Furthermore, our experiments demonstrate that Embodied-
RAG is a more efficient graphical non-parametric memory for
embodied data, surpassing the baselines [5], [6] in memory
building time, and achieve better performance across all query
types. In addition, semantic forest is a more versatile memory,
as shown in Table I, and it is capable of taking multi types
of input, while also able to be applied to various forms of
embodiment (drones, locobots, quadrupeds) as global plan-
ner, seamlessly integrated with existing low-level autonomous
navigation pipelines. This highlights Embodied-RAG’s po-
tential as a general system capable of task-, environment-,
and platform-agnostic operation, enabling robots to effectively
navigate and communicate in any environment where humans
are present.
The key contributions and implications of this paper include:
• Task: We extend RAG into embodied settings and high-
light the unique challenges of retrieval from embodied
experiences.

• Dataset: We present the Embodied-Experience Dataset,
formulating semantic navigation and question answering
under a single paradigm (Table I, Figure 1).

• Method: We show an initial step toward solving the
challenges in representing and retrieving from embodied
experiences, outperforming Naive-RAG, GraphRAG [5],

Connected Edgese.g. A Residential and University Complexe.g. Urban Campus with Green SpacesArea SummariesCaptionsShared Embodied ExperiencesSemantic Forest MemoryLLM_SelectionLLM_SelectionLLM_SelectionTop-K Retrieved ResultsMultimodal Graph Node Bottom-up Memory BuildingRetrievalNatural Language Interfaceor“The closest stairs is at (x,y,z)”2Implicit Queries Where can I buy drinks?1Global Can you describe the function of the building?3Explicit Queries Find me the stairsRobot TrajectoriesHuman TrajectoriesInternet DataLLMData CollectionGenerateEnvironment Aware Answers“The functionality of the building is a multi-purpose …”and LightRAG [6] on different query types across 19
diverse real and simulated environments. In addition, the
high-speed memory building process make it applicable in
real-time navigation and mapping.

• Implications: Our results and discussion provide a basis
for rethinking approaches to generalist robot agents based
on language-form non-parametric memories.

II. RELATED WORKS

A. Retrieval and Generation

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems integrate
large language models (LLMs) with external text corpora to
enhance factual grounding and relevance in generated outputs
[1], [7]–[9]. Traditional RAG models embed user queries and
document chunks into a shared vector space, retrieving the
top-k most semantically similar text fragments to augment the
model’s context window [10], [11]. This approach effectively
improves performance on tasks requiring domain-specific or
up-to-date information. However, naive RAG systems [9] rely
heavily on fragmented text chunks and simple similarity-based
retrieval, limiting their ability to capture comprehensive and
globally coherent information. Advanced RAG models such
as GraphRAG [5] and LightRAG [6] have been developed
to overcome these limitations by extract entities and their
relationships, organize them into graph structure for more
complete and globally aware retrieval. However, due to the
intrinsic nature of embodied experiences are often redundant,
hierarchically correlated, and spatially grounded, these purely
textal graph building approaches don’t perform that well. In
contrast, Embodied-RAG utilized spatial correlations to build
spatially related scene graphs.

B. Existing Methods of Semantic Memory and Retrieval

Several methods have been proposed for storing and query-
ing semantic memory in spatial environments, but they re-
main limited and task-specific compared to the potential of
foundation models. Approaches like [12]–[14] associate voxels
with predefined object categories, enabling fixed vocabulary
retrieval, while methods such as [15], [16] map voxels to
image embeddings, allowing for open vocabulary queries.
Systems like [17] store images per voxel, supporting queries
about people, language/image inputs, and object categories.
However, a common challenge across these approaches is
aligning the semantic abstraction with the spatial resolution.
Queries such as “cup,” “red cup,” or “I want to heat my lunch”
are object-level, but methods like [18], [19] focus primarily
on local retrieval during exploration, using structured frontiers
based on object layouts. Scene graphs [20], [21], while free
from dense memory issues, rely on human-engineered schemas
(e.g. floor −→ room −→ object −→ asset), making them unsuitable
for novel or outdoor environments.

Other approaches, such as OCTREE maps [22] and their
semantic versions [23]–[25], organize occupancy data effi-
ciently but still limit semantics to the object level. Methods
like Semantic OCTREE [23], [25] and GENMos [24] use
fixed object categories, lacking support for free-form language
queries or varying levels of spatial and semantic resolution
needed for holistic understanding.

3

C. Semantic Navigation and Question Answering

Tasks like ObjectNav [14], [19], [26], ImageNav [27]–
[29], and Visual Language Navigation [30] assess a robot’s
ability to navigate towards semantic targets based on object
categories,
images, or language descriptions. While recent
efforts like GOATBench [31] combine multiple input types,
these tasks still focus on object-level queries and lack the
flexibility to handle broader, more abstract user requests.
Embodied Question Answering (EQA) [32]–[35] and Video
Question Answering (VideoQA) [36]–[39] extend navigation
by requiring text-based answers within actionable or video
environments, though EQA is limited to indoor settings and
VideoQA lacks active navigation. Our approach expands these
paradigms by integrating action-based and question-answering
capabilities across a wider range of environments and user
queries.

III. METHOD: EMBODIED RETRIEVAL AND GENERATION

A. Bottom-up Memory Construction

The memory construction process of Embodied-RAG consists
of two parts: a topological map and a semantic forest.
Topological Map We employ a topological graph composed
of nodes with the following attributes:

• Pose information: The (x, y, z) position and yaw angle θ on
the map where the image was captured. Blue nodes in 1 are
the topological nodes, and they are connected according to
agent’s path history or within a threshold α

• Timestamps

• Images: Ego-centric images.

• Captions: Generated by a VLM (GPT-4o), these captions

provide detailed textual descriptions of the image.

The nodes form a topological map (blue nodes in Fig.
2), eliminating the need for specific control parameters like
velocity and yaw, which often vary across different drive
systems. This abstraction enables compatibility with any local
planner, regardless of the robot’s embodiment. Furthermore,
the topological structure is far more memory-efficient than
traditional metric maps [12], [14], [15], allowing for efficient
scaling in both large outdoor and complex indoor environ-
ments. Our experiments show that this approach successfully
operates on kilometer-scale topological graphs.
Semantic Forest The concept of a semantic forest leverages
the observation of intrinsic structure of embodied data, where
objects and scenes naturally exhibit spatial and semantic
organization. By capturing higher-level spatial and semantic
information in a hierarchical tree structure, known as a seman-
tic forest, we can effectively model these relationships through
a two-step iterative process: clustering and summarization.

First, we employ complete-linkage hierarchical clustering
(CLINK) [40], [41] with a novel hybrid distance metric to
group leaf nodes (level 0 nodes in Fig. 2(a)). The hybrid simi-
larity matrix computation integrates both spatial and semantic
relationships between nodes through a weighted combination
approach. The similarity (Sij) of two nodes i and j is defined
as the weighting of two terms:

4

Fig. 2: Embodied-RAG method overview. (a) Memory is constructed by hierarchically organizing the nodes of the topological
map into a semantic forest. (b) The memory in (a) can be retrieved for a query, with parallelized tree traversals. (c) Navigation
actions with text outputs, or global explanations can be generated for the query, with using the retrieval results as LLM contexts.

Sij = (1 − α)Sspatial

ij + αSsemantic

ij

The components of the similarity metric are as follows:
Spatial Similarity (Sspatial

): The spatial similarity is com-

ij

puted using the haversine distance with exponential decay:

Sspatial
ij

(cid:18)

= exp

−

(cid:19)

dhaversine(i, j)
θ

Where dhaversine(i, j) is the great-circle distance between

locations i and j, and θ is the base distance threshold.

Semantic Similarity (Ssemantic

): The semantic similarity is
computed as the cosine similarity between neural language
embeddings ei, ej of the text descriptions for nodes i and j.

ij

Ssemantic

ij

=

ei · ej
∥ei∥∥ej∥

Once the clusters are formed at each level, we generate
semantic summaries for each cluster using an LLM summa-
rizer (e.g., GPT-4). The summary and the average distance
between nodes are saved as new nodes (level 1-3 nodes in
Fig. 2(a)). This bottom-up clustering process continues until
either root nodes are formed or no further meaningful clusters
can be created. The summarization process is parallelized
across clusters at the same hierarchical level, ensuring efficient
processing of the entire forest structure.

Unlike traditional 3D Scene Graph approaches [4], [20],
which often rely on manual rules for identifying rooms and
functional spaces, our hierarchical structure and corresponding
semantic trees enable the automatic creation of meaningful
semantic regions. This approach is particularly advantageous
for outdoor navigation, where walls and physical structures are
absent and cannot be used to infer functional areas.

B. Top-down Retrieval

To address the challenges posed by redundant and repetitive
embodied observations, which make retrieval difficult when

relying solely on semantic similarities as in Naive RAG [1],
and to enhance reasoning capabilities over hierarchies of
abstraction constructed for a given environment, we modified
RAG’s relevancy scoring mechanism in a manner inspired by
Tree-of-Thoughts [42]. Specifically, the two phase retrieval
mechanism transitions from semantic similarity to LLM-based
selections at each hierarchical level:

Phase 1: Semantic-Guided Hierarchical Traversal: The first
phase involves a top-down parallel exploration of the semantic
forest, where node selection is guided purely by semantic
relevance. For a given query q, we define a selection function:

Nl = fLLM(q, Cl, k)

Here, Nl represents the set of selected nodes at level l,
Cl denotes the candidate nodes at that level, and fLLM is
the LLM-based selection function. The parameter k speci-
fies the branching factor. The algorithm recursively explores
the children of each selected non-base node until the base
nodes are reached. By focusing on semantic relevance during
traversal,
this phase prunes irrelevant branches early and
ensures computational efficiency, while still comprehensive
exploration over the entire semantic forest.

Phase 2: Hybrid Re-ranking: Once the base nodes are
collected, they are scored individually by another LLM and
ranked in descending order of relevance, kept in a set to
remove duplicates. If location information is provided, the
probability distribution is updated from P (A | Q) to P (A |
Q, L). A re-ranking based on spatial proximity is then con-
ducted by computing spatial scores and combining them with
semantic scores, weighted by a factor α. The spatial scores
are calculated in the same manner as the spatial similarity
described in Section III-A.

Additionally,

if the embodied experiences include more
sensor data,
these data can be preprocessed to refine the
scoring mechanism. For instance, in this study, Normalized
Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) data is used to determine
the quality of the grass. This score is integrated into the re-

[ ]QueryLLM Select best K nodes to go downe.g. K = 2LLM Summaries at each level a) Bottom-up Memory Buildingb) Top-Down RetrievalCaptionsCaptionsCaptionsCaptionsCaptionsArea SummariesArea SummariesText AnswerWaypointc) GenerationContext: P(A|Q)QueryLLMorLocal PlannerHierarchically cluster nodes based on spatial and semantic proximityP(A|Q, L):[ ]If L is given, rerank based on Spatial Proximity:[ ]P(A|Q, L, S):If U is given, rerank based on Other sensor data:Rank based on LLM score, remove duplicatesranking process to prioritize regions with low-quality grass.
The preprocessing and re-ranking steps can be adapted to the
specific requirements and its operational goals, allowing the
framework to remain flexible across different applications.

C. Generation

The retrieved nodes are passed as part of the context,
along with the user query, to a generation LLM. The LLM
is prompted to handle two types of queries: (1) For “find”
queries (explicit or implicit), it outputs a desired waypoint
in a JSON format, along with reasoning for its choice; (2)
For “explain” queries, it generates a textual response. The
detailed prompt used for the generation process is available
on our project website. The Embodied-RAG pipeline can be
conceptualized as a global planner for “find” queries. Since
the topological graph contains connectivity information, a
Dijkstra’s path planning algorithm is employed to compute
the minimum-distance path between the current location and
the selected waypoint. For navigation between waypoints, any
local planner can be integrated. In this paper, we use the
Unitree-Go2’s “go-to-waypoint” API as our local planner.

IV. EXPERIMENTS

A. Embodied-Experiences Dataset

The datasets utilized in the Embodied-RAG task are struc-
tured as topological graphs (see Section III for node details).
The dataset is composed of diverse environmental settings
collected through complementary data collection techniques.
Real-world environments were explored using autonomous
robots to construct three detailed indoor graphs and one mixed
outdoor-indoor graph, capturing realistic navigation scenarios.
To model large-scale urban spaces, a comprehensive street-
view graph was created using imagery from Google Street
View, providing broad and complex spatial data. Addition-
ally, fourteen object-centric topological graphs were gener-
ated using the photo-realistic AirSim [43] simulator, enabling
controlled simulation of varied and intricate environments.
On average, the topological graphs contain approximately 50
nodes, reflecting moderate complexity in most environments,
while the large-scale street-view graph consists of 3,525 nodes,
offering extensive spatial coverage for evaluating more com-
plex navigation and retrieval tasks.

The dataset is further divided based on modality for ex-
perimentation. In the E-image setting, each topological graph,
denoted as Et = (τt, st, pt), includes nodes where st contains
only image data. In contrast, the E-multimodal setting incor-
porates nodes where st includes both images and additional
sensory data. In the experiments shown in Table III, st contains
both image data and NDVI readings, reflecting the multimodal
nature of the environment.

5

Queries: These require a more nuanced, pragmatic understand-
ing, such as assessing adequacy or interpreting instructions
with contextual reasoning (e.g., “Find a quiet spot to read”).
the request may pertain to global
information, such as describing a specific location or providing
a general understanding of the environment (e.g., “What’s the
vegetation trend of this environment?”).

For Explain queries,

Example tasks are shown in Fig. 1. Find queries queries
are navigational tasks that expect navigation actions and text
descriptions of the retrieved location. Explain queries are QA
tasks requiring text generation at a more holistic level.

The queries were collected by four human annotators fa-
miliar with the Embodied-Experience datasets. The annotators
created queries by reviewing the dataset’s images and lever-
aging their understanding of the environmental context.

A. Evaluation

V. RESULTS

To comprehensively assess the system’s performance, we
employ distinct evaluation metrics tailored to the nature of
the queries: Find and Explain.

1) Find Queries: To effectively evaluate the system’s ca-
pabilities as a global planner, we separate navigation success
from generation success. The system outputs an image path as
the result and calculates the probability P (Q | A), representing
the likelihood of finding the queried object given the generated
answer (image path). This probability is determined using a
cross-voting technique among five Vision-Language Models
(VLMs), ensuring unbiased scoring for open-ended queries.

Instead of binary checks, we use probabilities to account
for the inherent ambiguity in implicit queries (e.g., “Find me
a place to eat”), where deterministic answers are not always
feasible. Additional details about the VLM prompts and eval-
uation methodology are available on our project website.

If location information is provided P (Q | A, L), we
extend the evaluation by weighting P (Q | A) by the path
length, similar to established metrics like Success Weighted
by (normalized inverse) Path Length (SPL) [26]. Specifically:

P (Q | A, L) = P (Q | A) ×

path length
radius of the environment

This adjustment ensures the evaluation reflects not only the
success of finding the object but also the efficiency of the
navigation path.

2) Explain Queries: For explanation queries, we con-
structed a golden dataset by collecting answers from expert
annotators for each query. The system’s generated responses
are evaluated by computing the semantic similarity between
the generated answers and the corresponding golden answers
SS(A, Ae) A e represents the expert-provided answer.

B. Embodied-RAG Task

We include two query types: Find and Explain.

Find queries has two subcategories: (1) Explicit Queries.
These involve searching for a specific object instance or a
clearly defined target (e.g., “Find a bench”), (2) Implicit

To evaluate our Embodied-RAG approach, we conducted
three baseline methods:

comparative experiments against
Naive-RAG, GraphRAG, and LightRAG.

For compatibility with Naive-RAG [1], we converted the
graph files from the Embodied-Experience dataset into plain

B. Baselines

6

Query
Types

Metrics

Explicit

Implicit

P(Q|A)↑
P(Q|A, L)↑

P(Q|A)↑
P(Q|A, L)↑

Input
Types

Q only
Q, L

Q only
Q, L

Global SS(A, A e)↑

Q only

Naive-
RAG

Graph-
RAG

Light-
RAG

Embodied-

RAG

Query
Types

Metrics

0.08
0.041

0.06
0.029

0.08
0.027

0.10
0.07

0.31

0.12
0.06

0.68

0.13
0.07

0.65

0.55
0.28

0.62
0.25

0.67

TABLE II: Performance Comparison on the E-image Dataset
across different methods. Embodied-RAG consistently outper-
forms all other methods across Explicit, Implicit, and Global
query types, achieving the highest scores in both retrieval
probabilities (P (Q | A) and P (Q | A, L)) and semantic
similarity (SS(A, Ae)) metrics. Input types used in evaluation
are specified for each query type.

text (.txt) files. The dataset is divided into text chunks,
and the system retrieves semantically relevant chunks to pop-
ulate the context window of GPT-4o (with a token limit of
16k). These retrieved chunks are used to generate enhanced
responses. Naive-RAG does not leverage any structural knowl-
edge of the dataset, treating it as flat text.

GraphRAG [5] incorporates graph structures into the Naive-
RAG system. After preprocessing the dataset into text chunks
(similar to Naive-RAG), GraphRAG utilizes an LLM to extract
entities and relationships from the text and aggregates them
into different communities. A graph is then constructed to cap-
ture global relationships, with community reports summarizing
the entities and their connections. During retrieval, GraphRAG
generates multiple intermediate answers in parallel, one for
each chunk, ranks them based on a helpfulness score, and
iteratively adds the most relevant answers to the context
window until the token limit is reached. The final answer is
generated based on this enriched context.

Finally, LightRAG [6] is a state-of-the-art graphical RAG
approach designed for efficiency. LightRAG’s contribution
is more efficient retrieval by indexing the graph using a
dual-level key system (low-level and high-level keys). During
retrieval, this dual-level retrieval method is used to retrieve
relationships between key entities. Like the other baselines,
the same preprocessing steps were applied to the dataset.

C. Quantitative Results

The main results are presented in Table II and Table III,
where we evaluate performance on both the E-image and
E-multimodal datasets using three different query types and
three different input types. The performance of the baselines
is notably poor for explicit and implicit query types. This is
primarily because chunking multimodal embodied data into
text often fails to retrieve the correct images, resulting in
retrieval failures in most cases. For global queries, however,
the baselines LightRAG and GraphRAG outperform Naive-
RAG, demonstrating the effectiveness of graph structures in
generating holistic responses about the environment.

Notably, Embodied-RAG outperforms all baselines for ex-
plicit and implicit queries across all input types. For global
queries, particularly under P (A | Q, L), Embodied-RAG

Explicit

Implicit

P(Q|A)↑
P(Q|A, L)↑
P(Q|A, L)↑

P(Q|A)↑
P(Q|A, L)↑
P(Q|A, L)↑

Global

SS(A, A e)↑
SS(A, A e)↑

Input
Types

Q only
Q, L
Q, L, S

Q only
Q, L
Q, L, S

Q only
Q, S

Naive-
RAG

Graph-
RAG

Light-
RAG

Embodied-

RAG

0.08
0.03
0.04

0.10
0.04
0.04

0.60
0.46

0.09
0.04
0.04

0.12
0.05
0.04

0.72
0.68

0.12
0.03
0.03

0.13
0.07
0.08

0.75
0.78

0.58
0.28
0.36

0.67
0.29
0.41

0.74
0.95

TABLE III: Performance on the E-multimodal Dataset with
Input Types. This table includes sensor data as an additional
input, represented in rows with Q, L, S or Q, S. The results
show that Embodied-RAG achieves significant performance
improvements over metrics P (Q | A, L) when sensor data is
incorporated. Embodied-RAG consistently outperforms other
methods across all query types and metrics.

Fig. 3: Graph Memory Building Time Comparison. The
relative graph memory building time for Embodied-RAG,
GraphRAG, and LightRAG is displayed, normalized to
Embodied-RAG (1X). Embodied-RAG demonstrates signifi-
cantly faster graph construction, being 7.38 times faster than
GraphRAG and 9.76 times faster than LightRAG

shows superior performance, highlighting its flexibility in
the hybrid re-ranking step described in Section III-B. This
flexibility enables it to adapt actively to spatial constraints
during retrieval.

In Table III, we observe that when sensor data is provided
to Embodied-RAG, its performance further improves, while
the baselines remain unaffected. This result emphasizes the
advantages of integrating multimodal
information, offering
insights into how sensor data enhances the system’s ability
to understand and respond effectively to complex queries.

D. Computation Results

We conducted a computational comparison of the graphical
memory building time between Embodied-RAG, LightRAG,
and GraphRAG. The results, shown in Fig. 3, demonstrate that
Embodied-RAG’s graph-building process is 7.38 times faster
than GraphRAG and 9.76 times faster than LightRAG. This
efficiency is attributed to Embodied-RAG’s semantic forest
design, which leverages the inherent properties of embodied

7

Metrics

Naive-RAG

Graph-RAG

Light-RAG

Embodied-RAG

Top-1

Top-5

Top-1

Top-5

Top-1

Top-5

Top-1

Top-5

P(Q|A)
NI. Path Length
P(Q|A, L)

P(Q|A)
NI. Path Length
P(Q|A)

0.51
0.38
0.19

0.60
0.32
0.19

0.55
0.47
0.26

0.51
0.45
0.23

Explicit Queries

0.522
0.45
0.23

Implicit Queries

0.60
0.57
0.34

0.64
0.44
0.28

0.66
0.65
0.38

0.53
0.39
0.20

0.64
0.28
0.18

0.43
0.37
0.16

0.60
0.27
0.16

0.65
0.48
0.31

0.62
0.69
0.41

0.44
0.68
0.30

0.57
0.68
0.39

TABLE IV: Retrieval performance comparison for explicit and implicit queries on Embodied-RAG graph memory with P (A |
Q, L) input. Metrics include P (Q | A), normalized inverse path length (NI. Path Length), and P (Q | A, L), evaluated for Top-1
and Top-5 results. Embodied-RAG consistently outperforms other methods across most metrics, particularly in P (Q | A, L)
for both query types, showcasing its strong retrieval and navigation capabilities.

data. Specifically, objects or locations that are spatially close
can naturally be abstracted into higher-level clusters, reducing
the need for excessive LLM calls to generate relationships be-
tween individual text chunks as the baseline do. By clustering
larger groups of information at once, Embodied-RAG creates
a leaner graph structure.

On average, Embodied-RAG takes approximately 4 minutes
and 35 seconds to build a complete semantic forest for a one-
kilometer radius environment (e.g., the CMU dataset inside
Embodied-Experiences dataset), consisting of 3,353 nodes.
Furthermore, the semantic forest can be built incrementally
by progressively clustering nodes at each hierarchical level.

E. Ablation

Since traditional RAG systems are not designed to handle
embodied experience data, baselines perform poorly on Find
tasks. This raises the question as to whether the superior
performance of Embodied-RAG is due to its memory structure
or its retrieval mechanism. To explore this, we modified the
baselines to retrieve directly from our semantic forest memory,
allowing a direct comparison of retrieval performance. For
each method, we computed P (Q | A) and path-weighted
P (Q | A, L) for the top-1 and top-5 retrieved images.
The results reveal that while our retrieval method achieves
similar performance on P (Q | A), it consistently produces
shorter path lengths. Consequently, Embodied-RAG demon-
strates superior performance on P (Q | A, L), underscoring
its ability to effectively leverage both semantic and spatial
relationships within the semantic forest to build better context
for generation.

VI. LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE WORK

Embodied-RAG is not a drop-in replacement for other map-
ping approaches within the robotics community, but rather a
supplement that focuses on open-world hierarchical semantics,
building a high-level nonparametric memory system for easy
integration of language models and related technologies with
embodied agents versus low-level mapping and planning or
precise vision reasoning often necessary in robotics.

For example, our work assumes access to a perfect local
planner for the navigation task. This results in our system

not guaranteeing robustness in obstacle avoidance involving
dynamic objects and people. A natural question for future work
is to include dynamic objects in the memory but this requires
also reasoning over the concept of stale observations.

On the topic of visual reasoning, Embodied-RAG struggles
with requests that require precise counting of objects at a small
scale (e.g., “How many chairs are there around the red table?”).
This limitation arises because the agglomerative clustering of
the semantic forest does not consider multi-view consistency.
Generally, current (V)LMs struggle with 3D spatial reasoning,
so future work could need to explicitly incorporate multi-view
consistency techniques into the hierarchies of the semantic
forest with a learned or pre-trained mechanism to cluster with
positional information (e.g. utilizing a LLM).

Finally, the reliance on (V)LM APIs creates a deployment
dependency of nearly uninterrupted internet access. While we
tackled some of this directly in our efficiency evaluation, the
question of what knowledge and abilities are lost when models
are distilled and quantized to the point of being deployable
offline on local compute is an open research topic with the
NLP community and is left to future work.

VII. CONCLUSIONS
We present Embodied-RAG, a nonparametric embodied
memory system capable of capturing embodied memories
at any spatial and semantic resolution in both indoor and
outdoor environments, and retrieving and generating responses
for navigation and explanation requests. Additionally, we
introduce the Embodied-Experiences datasets for allowing
the community to continue testing different RAG system for
robotics settings. Our findings demonstrate that Embodied-
RAG can outperform existing baselines in all explicit, im-
plicit, and global quires, while able to build the structured
graph-memory 9.76 times faster than LightRAG. Our results
indicate that Embodied-RAG shows potential as the basis
for incorporating large nonparameteric embodied memories
into foundation models. The memories constructed here are
open-world and semantically rich while still being tied to the
environment. This provides a fundamentally new resource to
robotic systems and we are excited for future extensions to
manipulation and dynamic environments that enable robotics
tasks out of reach for current approaches.

[28] Y. Zhu, R. Mottaghi, E. Kolve, J. J. Lim, A. Gupta, L. Fei-Fei, and
A. Farhadi, “Target-driven visual navigation in indoor scenes using deep
reinforcement learning,” in 2017 ICRA.
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3357–3364.
[29] J. Krantz, S. Lee, J. Malik, D. Batra, and D. S. Chaplot, “Instance-
specific image goal navigation: Training embodied agents to find object
instances,” CVPR, 2022.

[30] J. Gu, E. Stefani, Q. Wu, J. Thomason, and X. E. Wang, “Vision-and-
language navigation: A survey of tasks, methods, and future directions,”
arXiv:2203.12667, 2022.

[31] Khanna, Roozbeh et al., “Goat-bench: A benchmark for multi-modal

lifelong navigation,” arXiv:2404.06609, 2024.

[32] A. Das, S. Datta, G. Gkioxari, S. Lee, D. Parikh, and D. Batra,

“Embodied question answering,” in CVPR, 2018, pp. 1–10.

[33] Padalkar et al., “Open x-embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and rt-x

models,” arXiv:2310.08864, 2023.

[34] L. Yu, X. Chen, G. Gkioxari, M. Bansal, T. L. Berg, and D. Batra,

“Multi-target embodied question answering,” in ICCV, 2019, p. 6309.

[35] S. Tan, M. Ge, D. Guo, H. Liu, and F. Sun, “Knowledge-based
embodied question answering,” IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis
and Machine Intelligence, 2023.

[36] Zhong, Tat-Seng et al., “Video question answering: Datasets, algorithms

and challenges,” arXiv:2203.01225, 2022.

[37] H. Yang, L. Chaisorn, Y. Zhao, S.-Y. Neo, and T.-S. Chua, “Videoqa:
question answering on news video,” in Proceedings of the eleventh ACM
international conference on Multimedia, 2003, pp. 632–641.

[38] Castro, Rada et al., “Lifeqa: A real-life dataset for video question

answering,” in LREC, 2020.

[39] J. Xiao, X. Shang, A. Yao, and T.-S. Chua, “Next-qa: Next phase of
question-answering to explaining temporal actions,” in ICCV, 2021.
[40] P. H. Sneath and R. R. Sokal, Numerical Taxonomy: The Principles and

Practice of Numerical Classification. W.H. Freeman, 1973.

[41] D. M¨ullner, “Modern hierarchical, agglomerative clustering algorithms,”
[Online]. Available: https://api.

ArXiv, vol. abs/1109.2378, 2011.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:8490224

[42] S. Yao, D. Yu, J. Zhao,

I. Shafran, T. Griffiths, Y. Cao, and
K. Narasimhan, “Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large
language models,” NeurIPS, vol. 36, 2024.

[43] S. Shah, D. Dey, C. Lovett, and A. Kapoor, “Airsim: High-fidelity visual
and physical simulation for autonomous vehicles,” in FSR, 2018.

8

REFERENCES

[1] P. Lewis, D. Kiela et al., “Retrieval-augmented generation for

knowledge-intensive nlp tasks,” 2021.

[2] A. Asai, S. Min, Z. Zhong, and D. Chen, “Acl 2023 tutorial: Retrieval-

based language models and applications,” ACL 2023, 2023.

[3] J. Chen, H. Lin, X. Han, and L. Sun, “Benchmarking large language

models in retrieval-augmented generation,” 2023.

[4] N. Hughes et al., “Hydra: A real-time spatial perception system for 3d

scene graph construction and optimization,” RSS, 2022.

[5] D. Edge, H. Trinh, N. Cheng, J. Bradley, A. Chao, A. Mody, S. Truitt,
and J. Larson, “From local to global: A graph rag approach to query-
focused summarization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130, 2024.
[6] Z. Guo, L. Xia, Y. Yu, T. Ao, and C. Huang, “Lightrag: Simple
and fast retrieval-augmented generation,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05779

[7] O. Ram, Y. Levine, I. Dalmedigos, D. Muhlgay, A. Shashua, K. Leyton-
retrieval-augmented language

Brown, and Y. Shoham, “In-context
models,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.00083
[8] W. Fan, Y. Ding, L. Ning, S. Wang, H. Li, D. Yin, T.-S.
Chua, and Q. Li, “A survey on rag meeting llms: Towards
retrieval-augmented large language models,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06211
[9] Y. Gao, Y. Xiong, X. Gao, K.

J. Pan, Y. Bi, Y. Dai,
J. Sun, M. Wang, and H. Wang, “Retrieval-augmented generation
for
[Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10997

large language models: A survey,” 2024.

Jia,

[10] L. Gao, X. Ma, J. Lin, and J. Callan, “Precise zero-shot dense
retrieval without relevance labels,” 2022. [Online]. Available: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2212.10496

[11] C.-M. Chan, C. Xu, R. Yuan, H. Luo, W. Xue, Y. Guo, and J. Fu,
“Rq-rag: Learning to refine queries for retrieval augmented generation,”
2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00610

[12] S. Y. Min, D. S. Chaplot, P. Ravikumar, Y. Bisk, and R. Salakhutdinov,
“Film: Following instructions in language with modular methods,” ICLR,
2021.

[13] S. Y. Min, Yonatan et al., “Don’t copy the teacher: Data and model

challenges in embodied dialogue,” EMNLP, 2022.

[14] Chaplot, R. R et al., “Object goal navigation using goal-oriented

semantic exploration,” NeurIPS, vol. 33, 2020.

[15] N. M. M. Shafiullah, C. Paxton, L. Pinto, S. Chintala, and A. Szlam,
“Clip-fields: Weakly supervised semantic fields for robotic memory,”
arXiv: Arxiv-2210.05663, 2022.

[16] C. Huang, O. Mees, A. Zeng, and W. Burgard, “Visual language maps
for robot navigation,” in Proceedings of the ICRA, London, UK, 2023.
[17] M. Chang, T. Gervet, M. Khanna, S. Yenamandra, D. Shah, S. Y. Min,
K. Shah, C. Paxton, S. Gupta, D. Batra et al., “Goat: Go to any thing,”
arXiv:2311.06430, 2023.

[18] S. K. Ramakrishnan, D. S. Chaplot, Z. Al-Halah, J. Malik, and
K. Grauman, “Poni: Potential functions for objectgoal navigation with
interaction-free learning,” in ICCV, 2022, pp. 18 890–18 900.

[19] S. Y. Min, Y.-H. H. Tsai, W. Ding, A. Farhadi, R. Salakhutdinov,
Y. Bisk, and J. Zhang, “Self-supervised object goal navigation with in-
situ finetuning,” in 2023 IROS.

IEEE, 2023, pp. 7119–7126.

[20] Li, Fuchun et al., “Embodied semantic scene graph generation,” in
CoRL, A. Faust, D. Hsu, and G. Neumann, Eds. PMLR, 2022.
[21] K. Rana et al., “Sayplan: Grounding large language models using 3d

scene graphs for scalable task planning,” in CoRL, 2023.

[22] A. Hornung, K. M. Wurm, M. Bennewitz, C. Stachniss, and W. Burgard,
“Octomap: An efficient probabilistic 3d mapping framework based on
octrees,” Autonomous robots, vol. 34, pp. 189–206, 2013.

[23] L. Zhang, L. Wei, P. Shen, W. Wei, G. Zhu, and J. Song, “Semantic
slam based on object detection and improved octomap,” IEEE Access,
vol. 6, pp. 75 545–75 559, 2018.

[24] K. Zheng, A. Paul, and S. Tellex, “Asystem for generalized 3d multi-

object search,” in 2023 ICRA.

IEEE, 2023, pp. 1638–1644.

[25] K. Liu, Z. Fan, M. Liu, and S. Zhang, “Object-aware semantic mapping
of indoor scenes using octomap,” in 2019 Chinese Control Conference
(CCC).

IEEE, 2019, pp. 8671–8676.

[26] P. Anderson, A. Chang, D. S. Chaplot, A. Dosovitskiy, S. Gupta,
V. Koltun, J. Kosecka, J. Malik, R. Mottaghi, M. Savva et al., “On evalu-
ation of embodied navigation agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.06757,
2018.

[27] L. Mezghan, S. Sukhbaatar, T. Lavril, O. Maksymets, D. Batra, P. Bo-
janowski, and K. Alahari, “Memory-augmented reinforcement learning
for image-goal navigation,” in 2022 IROS.
IEEE, 2022, pp. 3316–3323.