4
2
0
2

p
e
S
1
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
2
9
9
3
1
.
9
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

SMART-RAG: Selection using Determinantal Matrices for Augmented
Retrieval

Jiatao Li1,2, Xinyu Hu1, Xiaojun Wan1,
1Wangxuan Institute of Computer Technology, Peking University ,
2Information Management Department, Peking University
leejames@stu.pku.edu.cn, {huxinyu,wanxiaojun}@pku.edu.cn

Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has
greatly improved large language models
(LLMs) by enabling them to generate accurate,
contextually grounded responses through the
integration of external information. However,
conventional RAG approaches, which prioritize
top-ranked documents based solely on query-
context relevance, often introduce redundancy
and conflicting information. This issue is partic-
ularly evident in unsupervised retrieval settings,
where there are no mechanisms to effectively
mitigate these problems, leading to subopti-
mal context selection. To address this, we pro-
pose Selection using Matrices for Augmented
ReTrieval (SMART) in question answering
tasks , a fully unsupervised and training-free
framework designed to optimize context selec-
tion in RAG. SMART leverages Determinan-
tal Point Processes (DPPs) to simultaneously
model relevance, diversity and conflict, ensur-
ing the selection of potentially high-quality
contexts. Experimental results across multiple
datasets demonstrate that SMART significantly
enhances QA performance and surpasses pre-
vious unsupervised context selection methods,
showing a promising strategy for RAG.

1

Introduction

Recent advancements in large language models
(LLMs) have significantly boosted performance in
various natural language processing (NLP) tasks,
especially in question answering (QA) (Brown
et al., 2020). Despite their fluent and coherent
generation, LLMs often face issues of hallucina-
tion and lack of factual grounding (Maynez et al.,
2020; Zhou et al., 2021), resulting in inconsistent
or unreliable responses—particularly problematic
in domains where factual accuracy is crucial, such
as law, medicine, and education.

To address these issues, Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) have emerged as a powerful so-
lution. By integrating external sources of factual

1

evidence, RAG enhance the reliability and consis-
tency of QA models (Khattab et al., 2023; Izac-
ard et al., 2022). However, selecting relevant, di-
verse, and non-conflicting contexts remains a major
challenge. Supervised RAG methods require large
amounts of labeled data, which is impractical in
low-resource domains (Wang et al., 2023b; Dong
et al., 2024). Even unsupervised methods often
rely on pre-training or fine-tuning, which incurs
significant computational costs.

One of the key challenges in RAG is selecting
contexts that are not only relevant but also diverse
and free of contradictions. While retrieved con-
texts are typically aligned with the query, they can
introduce redundancy or conflicting information,
especially when drawn from large datasets. For
instance, one context might claim that “Treatment
X has been shown to reduce symptoms by 50%
in trials,” while another might state, “Treatment
X is ineffective and provides no significant bene-
fits.” Such contradictions can confuse the QA sys-
tem, leading to unreliable or incoherent responses,
which is particularly problematic in high-stakes
domains like education and healthcare, where mis-
information can have serious consequences.

This problem occurs because retrieval methods
tend to prioritize relevance at the expense of diver-
sity, leading to the over-selection of similar con-
texts. Furthermore, when multiple contexts present
conflicting perspectives on the same information,
the coherence of the generated answers suffers. A
crucial factor for producing accurate, coherent an-
swers lies in striking a balance between relevance
and diversity while minimizing contradictions.

Therefore, we introduce Selection using
Matrices for Augmented ReTrieval in Question
Answering (SMART), a fully unsupervised, train-
free framework that directly tackles the challenges
of context selection in RAG. The key innovation of
SMART lies in its use of Determinantal Point Pro-
cesses (DPPs) to model relevance, diversity, and

 
 
 
 
 
 
conflict relations among retrieved contexts. This
approach enables SMART to select highly valu-
able contexts while effectively addressing issues
of redundancy and conflict, which often hinder the
performance of traditional RAG methods.

SMART integrates conflict modeling into con-
text selection to enhance the coherence and fac-
tual accuracy of generated answers. By leveraging
Determinantal Point Processes (DPPs), SMART
balances relevance and diversity while minimizing
redundancy, preventing the selection of conflicting
or repetitive contexts (Kulesza et al., 2012). Cosine
similarity is used to assess relevance, and Natural
Language Inference (NLI) identifies and penalizes
contradictions, ensuring that selected contexts are
both diverse and consistent. As a fully unsuper-
vised, train-free method, SMART efficiently adapts
to various tasks without requiring large-scale la-
beled data or computationally intensive retraining.

Our contributions are as follows:

1. We introduce a novel extension of DPP that
integrates conflict modeling into context se-
lection for RAG.

2. We present SMART, a fully unsupervised and
training-free framework that surpasses previ-
ous unsupervised RAG methods.

3. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our
SMART in improving context selection for
QA by balancing relevance, diversity, and con-
flict, resulting in better performance across
multiple datasets.

2 Methodology

In this section, we present the SMART framework,
which employs DPP to select relevant, diverse,
and conflict-free contexts. By explicitly model-
ing conflict relations between contexts, SMART
improves coherence and factual consistency in
question-answering (QA) tasks, ensuring more reli-
able and accurate answers.

2.1 Relation Modeling

In SMART, each context c is segmented into indi-
vidual sentences {s1, s2, . . . , sn}, after which the
framework models three essential relationships:
textual similarity, conflict relations, and query-
context relevance.

Textual Similarity To assess content overlap, we
compute pairwise cosine similarity between dense

vector representations of contexts. The cosine sim-
ilarity between two contexts ci and cj, denoted as
s(ci, cj), is calculated as:

s(ci, cj) =

vci · vcj
∥vci∥∥vcj ∥

where vci and vcj are the embeddings of contexts
ci and cj. This similarity score contributes to the
similarity matrix Ksim, which captures the degree
of textual similarity between contexts.

Conflict Relations
In addition to modeling rel-
evance and diversity, SMART also accounts for
conflict relations between contexts to avoid select-
ing contradictory information. For each context
pair ci and cj, we employ a Natural Language In-
ference (NLI) model to compute the probability
of conflict. The conflict relation c(ci, cj) is sym-
metrized by averaging the directional probabilities
P (ci → cj) and P (cj → ci):

c(ci, cj) =

1
2

(P (ci → cj) + P (cj → ci))

This results in a conflict matrix C, which penal-
izes the selection of contradictory contexts, thereby
ensuring that the final set is coherent and free
from conflicts. By incorporating conflict modeling,
SMART enhances the factual consistency of the
selected contexts, going beyond standard relevance-
based methods.

Query-Context Relevance
In addition to mod-
eling relationships between contexts, SMART cal-
culates the relevance of each context to the query.
Using cosine similarity between the query Q and
each context c, the relevance score r(Q, c) is given
by:

r(Q, c) =

vQ · vc
∥vQ∥∥vc∥

where vQ and vc represent the embeddings of the
query and the context, respectively. This relevance
score ensures that the selected contexts are closely
aligned with the query, leading to higher-quality
answers.

2.2 DPP-Based Context Selection

Based on the context relations constructed as above,
we modify and improve the Determinantal Point
Process (DPP) approach to select an optimal subset
of contexts. It ensures an effectively balanced selec-
tion in terms of relevance, diversity, and coherence.
We will introduce the main method of our SMART,
with the related theoretical derivations and proofs
presented in Appendix D.

2

Figure 1: SMART pipeline for context selection in question answering. Given an initial query, the retriever identifies
relevant documents, which are then split into sentences. A pre-ranking step is applied to narrow down the top
candidate sentences. The pipeline involves two key stages: (1) Data Processing, where Query-Context (QC) and
Context-Context (CC) relations are constructed, and (2) Context Selection, leveraging Determinantal Point Processes
(DPP) to balance relevance and diversity while resolving conflicts between contexts. The result is a set of diverse,
non-redundant, and coherent final contexts.

Kernel Matrix Construction The kernel matrix
L ensures that selected contexts are relevant, di-
verse, and conflict-free. It is constructed as follows:

L = Diag(r) · Kweighted · Diag(r)

where r represents the relevance scores between
the query and each context, and Kweighted is a
conflict-adjusted similarity matrix that balances
textual similarity and conflict penalties. The sym-
metrized conflict matrix C is computed as de-
scribed in Section 2.1, and the weighted similarity
matrix is initialized as:

Kweighted = Ksim ◦ exp(−γ(1 − C))

where Ksim represents the cosine similarity be-
tween contexts. The decay function exp(−γ(1 −
C)) adjusts the similarity based on conflict, with
γ ≥ 0 controlling how strongly conflict impacts
similarity. This penalizes contexts with higher con-
flict scores as proved in Section D.7.

Subset Selection via DPP After constructing the
conflict-aware kernel matrix L, DPP selects a sub-
set Yg ⊆ Y of contexts that optimally balances
relevance, diversity, and coherence. The probabil-
ity of selecting a subset Yg is given by:

3

P (Yg) =

(cid:81)

i∈Yg

q2
i · det(Kweighted,Yg )
det(L + I)

,

where Kweighted,Yg is the submatrix of Kweighted
corresponding to the selected subset Yg. This en-
sures that selected contexts are both relevant and
non-conflicting, mitigating the risk of incoherent
or contradictory answers.

Efficient Subset Selection via Greedy MAP In-
ference To efficiently select an optimal subset of
contexts, we use a greedy Maximum A Posteriori
(MAP) inference algorithm, iteratively selecting the
context cj that maximizes the marginal gain in the
determinant:

cj = arg max
i∈Y \Yg

(cid:0)log det(LYg∪{i}) − log det(LYg )(cid:1)

This ensures that each selected context enhances
relevance and diversity while avoiding redundancy
and contradictions.

Balancing Relevance and Diversity To adjust
the trade-off between relevance and diversity, we
introduce a hyperparameter β, governing the selec-

tion process:

log det(LYg ) = β ·

log(q2

i )+

(cid:88)

i∈Yg

(1 − β) · log det(Kweighted,Yg )

where β ∈ [0, 1] controls the emphasis on rele-
vance versus diversity. Higher β values favor rele-
vance, while lower values prioritize diversity and
conflict minimization, ensuring that selected con-
texts are both coherent and non-redundant.

By modeling conflict relations and combining
them with relevance and diversity, SMART delivers
a robust, conflict-free context selection process that
significantly improves the quality and coherence of
generated answers in QA systems.

3 Experiments

3.1 Experimental Setup

We evaluate SMART on three diverse knowledge-
intensive tasks using few-shot in-context learn-
ing (Radford et al., 2019; Brown et al., 2020; Ram
et al., 2023). Following prior work (Trivedi et al.,
2022), we limit the experiments to the first 500 sam-
ples from each dataset to manage computational
costs. Since test sets are unavailable for datasets
from the KILT benchmark (Petroni et al., 2020)
(e.g., HotpotQA, FEVER), we report results on the
development sets. The tasks include open-domain
question answering, multi-hop reasoning, and fact
verification, evaluated on established datasets such
as NaturalQuestions (NQ), TriviaQA (TQA), Hot-
potQA, FEVER, and FOOL ME TWICE (FM2).
An overview of the datasets, evaluation metrics,
and experimental settings is provided in Table 1.

a set of questions q paired with short answers o,
and we use the processed version from Lee et al.
(2019), focusing on instances where answers are
five tokens or fewer. TriviaQA (TQA) consists
of questions q with corresponding answers o, ex-
tracted from supporting Wikipedia documents P .
We evaluate model performance on both datasets
using the Exact Match (EM) metric, following the
evaluation framework in Lewis et al. (2020a).

Multi-Hop Question Answering For multi-hop
QA, we adopt the HotpotQA dataset (Yang et al.,
2018), which requires reasoning over multiple pas-
sages P to answer each question q. HotpotQA in-
cludes 113K question-answer pairs, many of which
demand abstractive reasoning rather than direct
extraction from supporting documents P . As the
answers often require deeper reasoning and syn-
thesis, we use the unigram F1 score for evaluation,
consistent with Yang et al. (2018).

Fact Verification To evaluate the system’s abil-
ity to verify factual claims, we use the FEVER
dataset (Thorne et al., 2018), a core part of the
KILT benchmark (Petroni et al., 2021). Each sam-
ple consists of a claim q that either supports or re-
futes information sourced from Wikipedia. Claims
are labeled as "SUPPORTS" if they align with the
facts and "REFUTES" if they contradict the facts.
Model performance is assessed using accuracy, in
line with previous work (Thorne et al., 2018). Addi-
tionally, we test on the FOOL ME TWICE (FM2)
dataset (Eisenschlos et al., 2021), which presents
challenging claims designed to deceive players into
selecting false facts. This dataset is particularly
useful for evaluating the model’s robustness in iden-
tifying subtle factual inconsistencies.

Settings

Task

#ICL Metrics

3.3 Baseline Methods

ODQA
ODQA

NQ
TQA
HotpotQA Multihop QA
FEVER
FM2

Fact Verification
Fact Verification

5-shot
5-shot
5-shot
5-shot
5-shot

EM
EM
F1
EM
EM

Table 1: Dataset statistics and experimental settings for
NQ, TQA, HotpotQA, FEVER, and FM2 tasks.

3.2 Tasks and Datasets

Open-Domain Question Answering (QA) For
open-domain QA, we use the NaturalQuestions
(NQ) (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019) and TriviaQA
(TQA) (Joshi et al., 2017) datasets. NQ provides

4

To evaluate the performance of SMART, we
compare it against several well-established un-
supervised baseline methods, which include
relevance-focused and diversity-aware approaches.
BGE (Xiao et al., 2023) selects the most rele-
vant contexts based on the query-context relevance
scores using the bge-large-en-v1.5 model, focus-
ing purely on relevance without considering di-
versity or conflicts. Affinity Propagation (Wang
et al., 2008) selects exemplar contexts from clusters
to ensure diversity, while Agglomerative Cluster-
ing (Sharaff et al., 2016) hierarchically groups sim-
ilar contexts and selects representatives from differ-
ent clusters. Greedy Selection simply iteratively

chooses the most dissimilar contexts to maximize
diversity, without considering relevance. Maxi-
mal Marginal Relevance (MMR) (Carbonell and
Goldstein, 1998) balances relevance and diversity
by selecting contexts that are both relevant and dis-
similar to previously chosen ones. Non-negative
Matrix Factorization (NMF) (Lee and Seung,
2000) groups contexts into topics and selects repre-
sentatives from each to cover diverse aspects. Spec-
tral Clustering (Gupta et al., 2019) organizes con-
texts based on similarity and selects representatives
to maintain diversity. TextRank (Mihalcea and Ta-
rau, 2004) is a graph-based method that ranks con-
texts by their centrality within a similarity graph,
focusing on relevance, while LexRank (Erkan and
Radev, 2004) also ranks contexts based on central-
ity but emphasizes representativeness of the dataset.
For further details on each method, refer to Ap-
pendix A.

3.4

Implementation Details

We evaluate the Llama3-8b-instruct model using
the December 2018 Wikipedia dump as the re-
trieval corpus in a 5-shot in-context learning setup.
Initially, we use Contriever (Izacard et al., 2021)
to retrieve the top 50 documents per query. We
then apply BGE for pre-ranking, selecting the top
30 sentences with the highest BGE query-context
scores. Finally, the SMART method and other con-
text selection baselines are used to select the final
set of sentences from this pre-ranked pool for in-
put. Table 2 shows the optimal β and γ values for
each dataset used in our experiments. Additional
details on decoding strategies, prompts, few-shot
examples, context segmentation, and embedding
models are provided in Appendix B.

Parameter

NQ TQA HotpotQA FEVER FM2

Beta (β)
Gamma (γ)

0.8
0.8

0.9
0.3

0.9
0.2

0.9
0.2

0.8
0.7

Table 2: Optimal hyperparameters (β and γ) used for
each dataset.

3.5 Experimental Results

Table 3 presents the performance of SMART along-
side baseline methods across multiple datasets, us-
ing Exact Match (EM) for NQ, TQA, FEVER,
FM2, and F1 for HotpotQA.

FEVER and FM2, where conflict resolution is crit-
ical, achieving EM scores of 93.5 and 75.6, respec-
tively. SMART also demonstrates superior perfor-
mance in HOTPOTQA (F1: 40.8), showcasing its
effectiveness in multi-hop reasoning tasks. Across
other datasets such as NQ and TQA, SMART
maintains its advantage, highlighting its robustness
and scalability in context selection for question
answering.

4 Analyses and Discussions

4.1 Ablation Experiments

To evaluate the contributions of key components in
the SMART framework, we conducted a series of
ablation experiments by systematically modifying
specific elements of the model. These experiments
assess the impact of relevance and conflict model-
ing on overall performance across multiple datasets.
The ablations focus on four key variations: (1) re-
moving conflict resolution while retaining query-
context relevance, (2) removing both relevance and
conflict modeling, (3) using only BGE relevance
scores, and (4) using the raw top 5 contexts re-
trieved by Contriever (Izacard et al., 2021).

SMART (Full) The full SMART model com-
bines both relevance and conflict modeling, con-
structing the kernel matrix L as:

L = Diag(r) · Kweighted · Diag(r)

This approach effectively balances relevance, di-
versity, and conflict resolution, resulting in supe-
rior performance across all datasets. For instance,
in FEVER, the model achieves an Accuracy of
93.5, outperforming other settings by a clear mar-
gin. Similarly, in FM2, SMART reaches an EM
score of 75.6, highlighting the significant impact
of conflict management on fact-based QA tasks.
Across datasets like HOTPOTQA, where multi-hop
reasoning is critical, the model also excels with
an F1 score of 40.8, showcasing its ability to han-
dle complex queries through diverse and coherent
context selection.

SMART w/o Conflict
In this ablation, we re-
moved conflict modeling while retaining query-
context relevance and textual similarity. The kernel
matrix L is simplified as:

L = Diag(r) · Ksim · Diag(r)

SMART consistently outperforms baseline meth-
ods across all datasets. It excels particularly in

While this variant continues to perform well, it
struggles with selecting conflicting contexts, which

5

Method

NQ (EM) TQA (EM) HOTPOTQA (F1) FEVER (EM) FM2 (EM)

BGE
CONTRIEVER
AGGLOMERATIVECLUSTERING
GREEDY
MMR
NMF
SPECTRALCLUSTERING
TEXTRANK
LEXRANK
RANDOM

SMART(OURS)

25.1
21.6
21.0
21.2
20.4
21.6
22.4
23.4
23.2
21.6

25.9

48.9
36.6
40.8
33.5
36.6
40.6
41.8
47.3
47.7
38.0

49.3

38.8
32.4
33.9
29.5
27.5
32.5
36.4
33.4
33.4
30.4

40.8

91.1
83.8
86.7
78.4
78.2
81.8
89.7
86.3
86.5
84.2

93.5

72.0
71.1
67.3
65.5
66.5
72.1
72.3
68.7
69.1
67.3

75.6

Table 3: Performance comparison of various context selection methods across datasets, using the primary evaluation
metric mentioned in Table 1.

Method

NQ (EM) TQA (EM) HOTPOTQA (F1) FEVER (Acc) FM2 (EM)

SMART (FULL)
SMART W/O CONFLICT
SMART W/O RELEVANCE + CONFLICT
SMART W/O DIVERSITY + CONFLICT
SMART W/O DIVERSITY + CONFLICT + RELEVANCE

25.9
25.1
23.2
25.1
21.6

49.3
49.9
37.8
48.9
36.6

40.8
40.5
31.3
38.8
32.4

93.5
92.3
78.4
91.1
83.8

75.6
74.3
66.3
72.0
71.1

Table 4: Ablation study comparing the performance of SMART with different settings for relevance and conflict
modeling across datasets.

impacts coherence and factual consistency. This
is particularly evident in fact-based tasks like
FEVER and FM2. For example, in FEVER, the
Accuracy decreases by 1.2 points (93.5 to 92.3),
and in FM2, the EM score drops by 1.3 points
(75.6 to 74.3). These results underscore the critical
role of conflict resolution in maintaining reliable,
non-contradictory context selection.

SMART w/o Relevance + Conflict
In this ab-
lation, both query-context relevance and conflict
modeling are removed, leaving SMART to rely
solely on DPP to maintain diversity using the simi-
larity matrix:

L = Ksim

While DPP promotes diverse context selection, this
approach lacks mechanisms for ensuring the se-
lected contexts are aligned with the query or free
from contradictions. As a result, performance suf-
fers significantly across all datasets, particularly
in tasks requiring multi-hop reasoning and factual
accuracy, such as HOTPOTQA and FM2. For in-
stance, in FM2, the EM score drops by 9.3 points
(from 75.6 to 66.3), underscoring the critical role of
both relevance and conflict modeling for effective
context selection.

SMART w/o Diversity + Conflict
In this con-
figuration, context selection is based solely on the

BGE query-context relevance score, without incor-
porating similarity or conflict modeling. While
this approach performs reasonably well, it lacks
the ability to manage conflicting contexts or ensure
diversity. As a result, its performance is lower com-
pared to the full SMART model. For instance, in
FM2, the EM score is 72.0, falling short of the 75.6
achieved by the full model. Similarly, in FEVER,
the Accuracy drops to 91.1, underscoring the impor-
tance of conflict resolution in tasks where factual
consistency is critical. Although BGE Relevance
Only performs better than more basic baselines, it
remains limited by its inability to address conflicts
and promote diversity.

SMART w/o Diversity + Conflict + Relevance
This baseline directly selects the top 5 sentences
from documents retrieved by Contriever without
any additional modeling. As expected, this ap-
proach yields the weakest performance, with no-
table declines across all datasets. The model is
unable to handle conflicting or redundant contexts,
particularly in fact-based tasks like FEVER, where
Accuracy drops significantly to 83.8.

Key Findings The results from the ablation ex-
periments (Table 4) clearly highlight the crucial
role of both relevance and conflict modeling in
SMART’s performance. Removing conflict resolu-

6

tion leads to a significant decline in factual consis-
tency, especially in datasets like FM2 and FEVER,
where maintaining coherence and accuracy is es-
sential. The most pronounced performance drops
are observed when both relevance and conflict mod-
eling are excluded, underscoring the importance
of integrating these components for high-quality,
diverse, and coherent context selection. These find-
ings reaffirm that managing relevance and conflict
is essential for achieving optimal performance in
fact-based QA tasks.

4.2 Effects of Key Hyperparameters

While SMART requires no additional training, tun-
ing two key hyperparameters—β and γ—is essen-
tial for optimizing performance. β balances rele-
vance and diversity, while γ manages conflict reso-
lution across contexts.

Relevance-Diversity Trade-off (β) β controls
the balance between relevance and diversity in con-
text selection. As shown in Figure 2, the best re-
sults are typically obtained with β values between
0.7 and 0.8, depending on the dataset. For example,
in FM2, β = 0.8 strikes an ideal balance, avoiding
redundancy while maintaining relevance. In NQ,
β = 0.7 provides sufficient diversity to cover mul-
tiple facets of the query. Setting β too high leads to
diminished performance due to redundant context
selection.

Conflict Resolution (γ) γ determines how
strongly conflicting contexts are penalized. Its ef-
fects are especially pronounced in fact-based tasks
like FEVER and FM2, where consistency is critical.
For FEVER, γ = 0.2 provides the best balance,
while FM2 benefits from a stricter penalty with
γ = 0.7. In NQ, a higher γ = 0.8 helps eliminate
contradictory information. However, setting γ too
high risks excluding useful, slightly conflicting con-
texts, reducing diversity and overall performance.

5 Related Work

5.1 Unsupervised Context Selection Methods

Unsupervised context selection is crucial in low-
data scenarios. Techniques like Affinity Propaga-
tion (Wang et al., 2008) and TextRank (Mihalcea
and Tarau, 2004) focus on either relevance or di-
versity but often fail to balance both. Greedy Se-
lection maximizes diversity by selecting the most
dissimilar contexts, ignoring relevance. In contrast,
Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) (Carbonell

and Goldstein, 1998) balances relevance and di-
versity, choosing contexts that are both relevant
and distinct. Non-negative Matrix Factorization
(NMF) (Lee and Seung, 2000) promotes topic di-
versity but does not directly prioritize relevance in
its selections.

Recent unsupervised approaches

such as
REALM (Guu et al., 2020a) and REPLUG (Shi
et al., 2023b) have reduced reliance on labeled data
by involving some level of training, though they
still require pre-training or fine-tuning.
In con-
trast, SMART offers a fully train-free solution, in-
tegrating Determinantal Point Processes (DPPs) to
jointly model relevance, diversity, and conflict. By
addressing both query-context relationships and po-
tential conflicts, SMART ensures a more balanced
and effective selection of contexts, providing sig-
nificant improvements in question-answering tasks
without the need for extensive pre-training.

5.2 Retrieval-Augmented Generation and

Context Optimization

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) improves
language models by incorporating external infor-
mation, but it often faces challenges such as noise,
irrelevant details, and redundancy in the retrieved
texts, which can degrade performance (Lewis et al.,
2020c; Guu et al., 2020b; Xu et al., 2023; Wang
et al., 2023a). Most existing RAG context selection
methods are supervised, relying heavily on labeled
data, which limits their scalability in low-resource
environments where such data is scarce (Dong
et al., 2024).

While unsupervised RAG approaches reduce the
need for labeled data, they typically still require
pre-training or fine-tuning and often struggle to bal-
ance relevance and diversity in context selection.
SMART overcomes these limitations by introduc-
ing a fully unsupervised, train-free framework that
leverages Determinantal Point Processes (DPPs).
This ensures a balanced selection of contexts that
minimizes redundancy, resolves conflicts, and op-
timizes relevance and diversity—filling a critical
gap in existing RAG methodologies.

In augmented generation tasks, where additional
contexts support the generation process, balanc-
ing relevance, diversity, and coherence is essen-
tial (Lewis et al., 2020b; Guu et al., 2020a). Al-
though retrieving longer passages may offer more
information, they often introduce irrelevant or con-
flicting details that harm output quality (Shi et al.,
2023a). SMART addresses this by selecting con-

7

Figure 2: The different performance of SMART across datasets, with each hyperparameter (β or γ) tuned indepen-
dently while keeping the other fixed at its optimal value (as reported in Table 2). The dashed lines represent the
results of directly using top 5 sentences from documents retrieved by contriever.

texts that are both relevant and diverse while re-
maining free from contradictions, enhancing both
factual accuracy and coherence in generated text.

Existing retrieval optimization techniques of-
ten focus on reranking based on relevance or util-
ity (Nogueira and Cho, 2020), but neglect the need
for diversity and conflict resolution. SMART im-
proves upon these approaches by integrating con-
flict resolution, ensuring retrieved content is rele-
vant, non-redundant, and consistent. This conflict-
aware approach strengthens the performance of
generation tasks, delivering more robust, coherent,
and factually accurate outputs across diverse appli-
cations.

larity to deliver high-quality outputs.

Extensive experiments across various datasets
demonstrated that SMART outperforms existing
methods, particularly in tasks such as fact verifi-
cation and multi-hop reasoning. Its training-free
nature makes it highly scalable for real-world ap-
plications, including virtual assistants, legal sys-
tems, and educational tools. By offering high-
quality, conflict-free context selection, SMART has
the potential to drive significant advancements in
retrieval-augmented question answering and gener-
ation systems.

Limitations

6 Conclusion

In this paper, we presented SMART, a novel unsu-
pervised framework for enhancing context selec-
tion in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). By
incorporating conflict modeling into Determinantal
Point Processes (DPPs), SMART addresses a key
challenge in context selection: balancing relevance,
diversity, and conflict resolution. Unlike traditional
methods, SMART explicitly models and mitigates
conflicts between retrieved contexts, ensuring that
selected contexts are both coherent and factually
consistent. This conflict-aware approach operates
without the need for pre-training or fine-tuning, in-
tegrating query-context relevance and textual simi-

A notable limitation of SMART is the time cost
associated with computing conflict relations us-
ing the Natural Language Inference (NLI) model.
While the DPP-based selection is efficient, the pro-
cess of identifying contradictions between contexts
through NLI introduces additional computational
overhead, particularly when dealing with large-
scale datasets. Moreover, the current sentence-level
segmentation approach may not fully capture inter-
sentence dependencies or broader document coher-
ence, potentially missing key contextual relation-
ships. Future work could focus on optimizing the
NLI conflict detection process and exploring more
sophisticated segmentation strategies to enhance
both efficiency and context selection quality.

8

0.50.60.70.80.91.0Beta2223242526EMNQ0.50.60.70.80.91.0Beta707172737475EMFM20.50.60.70.80.91.0Beta848688909294EMFEVER0.00.20.40.60.8Gamma2223242526EMNQ0.00.20.40.60.8Gamma7172737475EMFM20.00.20.40.60.8Gamma848688909294EMFEVERSMARTContrieverAcknowledgments

This work was supported by National Key R&D
Program of China (2021YFF0901502), National
Science Foundation of China (No. 62161160339),
State Key Laboratory of Media Convergence Pro-
duction Technology and Systems, and Key Lab-
oratory of Science, Technology and Standard in
Press Industry (Key Laboratory of Intelligent Press
Media Technology). We appreciate the anonymous
reviewers for their helpful comments. Xiaojun Wan
is the corresponding author.

References

AI@Meta. 2024. Llama 3 model card.

Steven Bird and Edward Loper. 2004. NLTK: The natu-
ral language toolkit. In Proceedings of the ACL In-
teractive Poster and Demonstration Sessions, pages
214–217, Barcelona, Spain. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.

Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss,
Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child,
Aditya Ramesh, Daniel Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens
Winter, Chris Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Ma-
teusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack
Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec
Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020.
In Ad-
Language models are few-shot learners.
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 33, pages 1877–1901. Curran Associates,
Inc.

Jaime Carbonell and Jade Goldstein. 1998. The use of
mmr, diversity-based reranking for reordering doc-
uments and producing summaries. In Proceedings
of the 21st annual international ACM SIGIR confer-
ence on Research and development in information
retrieval, pages 335–336.

Jialin Dong, Bahare Fatemi, Bryan Perozzi, Lin F Yang,
and Anton Tsitsulin. 2024. Don’t forget to connect!
improving rag with graph-based reranking. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2405.18414.

Julian Martin Eisenschlos, Bhuwan Dhingra, Jannis Bu-
lian, Benjamin Börschinger, and Jordan Boyd-Graber.
2021. Fool me twice: Entailment from wikipedia
gamification. Preprint, arXiv:2104.04725.

Günes Erkan and Dragomir R. Radev. 2004. Lexrank:
Graph-based lexical centrality as salience in text sum-
marization. ArXiv, abs/1109.2128.

Anand Gupta, Manpreet Kaur, Ahsaas Bajaj, and Ansh
Khanna. 2019. Entailment and spectral clustering
based single and multiple document summarization.

International Journal of Intelligent Systems and Ap-
plications, 11:39–51.

Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu-
pat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020a. Realm: Retrieval-
augmented language model pre-training. Preprint,
arXiv:2002.08909.

Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat,
and Mingwei Chang. 2020b. Retrieval augmented
language model pre-training. In International confer-
ence on machine learning, pages 3929–3938. PMLR.

Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Se-
bastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin,
and Edouard Grave. 2021. Unsupervised dense in-
formation retrieval with contrastive learning. Trans.
Mach. Learn. Res., 2022.

Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lu-
cas Hosseini, Fabio Petroni, Timo Schick, Jane
Dwivedi-Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and
Edouard Grave. 2022. Atlas: Few-shot learning
with retrieval augmented language models. Preprint,
arXiv:2208.03299.

Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel Weld, and Luke
Zettlemoyer. 2017. TriviaQA: A large scale distantly
supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehen-
sion. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Vol-
ume 1: Long Papers), pages 1601–1611, Vancouver,
Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Omar Khattab, Keshav Santhanam, Xiang Lisa
Li, David Hall, Percy Liang, Christopher Potts,
and Matei Zaharia. 2023. Demonstrate-search-
predict: Composing retrieval and language mod-
Preprint,
els
arXiv:2212.14024.

for knowledge-intensive nlp.

Alex Kulesza, Ben Taskar, et al. 2012. Determinantal
point processes for machine learning. Foundations
and Trends® in Machine Learning, 5(2–3):123–286.

Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Red-
field, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti,
Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Ken-
ton Lee, et al. 2019. Natural questions: a benchmark
for question answering research. Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 7:453–
466.

Daniel Lee and H Sebastian Seung. 2000. Algorithms
for non-negative matrix factorization. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 13.

Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, and Kristina Toutanova.
2019. Latent retrieval for weakly supervised open
domain question answering. In Proceedings of the
57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics, pages 6086–6096, Florence, Italy.
Association for Computational Linguistics.

9

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020a.
Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
In Advances in Neural Infor-
intensive nlp tasks.
mation Processing Systems, volume 33, pages 9459–
9474. Curran Associates, Inc.

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, et al. 2020b. Retrieval-augmented generation
for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems, 33:9459–9474.

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus,
et al. 2020c. Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 33:9459–9474.

Joshua Maynez, Shashi Narayan, Bernd Bohnet, and
Ryan McDonald. 2020. On faithfulness and factu-
ality in abstractive summarization. In Proceedings
of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, pages 1906–1919, On-
line. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. 2004. Textrank: Bring-
ing order into text. In Proceedings of the 2004 con-
ference on empirical methods in natural language
processing, pages 404–411.

Rodrigo Nogueira and Kyunghyun Cho. 2020. Pas-
arXiv preprint

sage re-ranking with bert.
arXiv:1901.04085.

Oskar Perron. 1907. Zur theorie der matrices. Mathe-

matische Annalen, 64:248–263.

Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Angela Fan, Patrick
Lewis, Majid Yazdani, Nicola De Cao, James Thorne,
Yacine Jernite, Vladimir Karpukhin, Jean Maillard,
Vassilis Plachouras, Tim Rocktäschel, and Sebastian
Riedel. 2021. Kilt: a benchmark for knowledge in-
tensive language tasks. Preprint, arXiv:2009.02252.

Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Angela Fan, Patrick
Lewis, Majid Yazdani, Nicola De Cao, James Thorne,
Yacine Jernite, Vassilis Plachouras, Tim Rocktaschel,
and Sebastian Riedel. 2020. Kilt: a benchmark for
knowledge intensive language tasks. In North Amer-
ican Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics.

Alec Radford, Jeff Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan,
Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. 2019. Language
models are unsupervised multitask learners.

J. Schur. 1911. Bemerkungen zur theorie der beschränk-
ten bilinearformen mit unendlich vielen veränder-
lichen. Journal für die reine und angewandte Mathe-
matik, 1911(140):1–28.

Aakanksha Sharaff, Hari Shrawgi, Priyank Arora, and
Anshul Verma. 2016. Document summarization by
agglomerative nested clustering approach. In 2016
IEEE International Conference on Advances in Elec-
tronics, Communication and Computer Technology
(ICAECCT), pages 187–191.

Freda Shi, Xinyun Chen, Kanishka Misra, Nathan
Scales, David Dohan, Ed Chi, Nathanael Schärli, and
Denny Zhou. 2023a. Large language models can be
easily distracted by irrelevant context. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.00093.

Weijia Shi, Sewon Min, Michihiro Yasunaga, Min-
joon Seo, Rich James, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettle-
moyer, and Wen tau Yih. 2023b. Replug: Retrieval-
arXiv
augmented black-box language models.
preprint arXiv:2301.12652.

Damien Sileo. 2023.

tasksource: Structured dataset
preprocessing annotations for frictionless extreme
multi-task learning and evaluation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.05948.

James

Andreas Vlachos,

Christos
Thorne,
Christodoulopoulos,
and Arpit Mittal. 2018.
Fever: a large-scale dataset for fact extraction and
verification. Preprint, arXiv:1803.05355.

Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar
Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022.
Interleav-
ing retrieval with chain-of-thought reasoning for
knowledge-intensive multi-step questions. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2212.10509.

Kaijun Wang, Junying Zhang, Dan Li, Xinna Zhang,
and Tao Guo. 2008. Adaptive affinity propagation
clustering. arXiv preprint arXiv:0805.1096.

Yile Wang, Peng Li, Maosong Sun, and Yang Liu.
2023a. Self-knowledge guided retrieval augmen-
tation for large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.05002.

Zhiruo Wang, Jun Araki, Zhengbao Jiang, Md Rizwan
Parvez, and Graham Neubig. 2023b. Learning to fil-
ter context for retrieval-augmented generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.08377.

Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Peitian Zhang, and Niklas
Muennighoff. 2023. C-pack: Packaged resources
to advance general chinese embedding. Preprint,
arXiv:2309.07597.

Ori Ram, Yoav Levine, Itay Dalmedigos, Dor Muhlgay,
Amnon Shashua, Kevin Leyton-Brown, and Yoav
Shoham. 2023. In-context retrieval-augmented lan-
guage models. Transactions of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 11:1316–1331.

Shicheng Xu, Liang Pang, Huawei Shen, Xueqi Cheng,
and Tat-seng Chua. 2023. Search-in-the-chain: To-
wards the accurate, credible and traceable content
generation for complex knowledge-intensive tasks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14732.

10

Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Ben-
gio, William W. Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and
Christopher D. Manning. 2018. Hotpotqa: A dataset
for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answer-
ing. Preprint, arXiv:1809.09600.

Chunting Zhou, Graham Neubig, Jiatao Gu, Mona Diab,
Francisco Guzmán, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Marjan
Ghazvininejad. 2021. Detecting hallucinated content
in conditional neural sequence generation. In Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: ACL-IJCNLP 2021, pages 1393–1404, Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.

11

A Detailed Baseline Methods

In this section, we provide a comprehensive ex-
planation of the baseline methods used to evalu-
ate SMART’s performance in retrieval-augmented
generation (RAG) for question answering (QA).
Since SMART operates in a fully unsupervised and
train-free manner, it offers a fair and meaningful
comparison with other unsupervised baselines.

Below are the unsupervised methods used in
our evaluation, including both traditional relevance-
focused approaches and diversity-aware clustering
techniques.

baseline

leverages

BGE This
the
bge-large-en-v1.5 model, which is a state-of-
the-art query-context (QC) relevance calculator.
The top contexts are selected based solely on their
relevance scores. While this method focuses purely
on maximizing relevance, it does not incorporate
mechanisms for promoting diversity or addressing
potential conflicts between the contexts. Due
to the strength of the BGE model in capturing
this baseline represents a
semantic relevance,
strong competitor, particularly in scenarios where
relevance is the primary concern.

Affinity Propagation Affinity Propagation is a
clustering-based algorithm that identifies exem-
plars, which are contexts that represent the most
typical members of each cluster. It does this by
exchanging messages between data points until
a high-quality set of exemplars emerges. Once
the clusters are formed, a representative context
is selected from each cluster, ensuring diversity.
However, this method does not explicitly prioritize
relevance, leading to possible trade-offs in the final
selection process.

Agglomerative Clustering Agglomerative Clus-
tering is a hierarchical method that begins by treat-
ing each context as an individual cluster. The algo-
rithm then iteratively merges pairs of clusters based
on their similarity, creating a hierarchical tree (den-
drogram). Once the clustering process is complete,
contexts are selected from different clusters to pro-
mote diversity. This method ensures that the final
selection covers a wide range of information, al-
though it does not explicitly prioritize relevance to
the query.

Greedy Selection Greedy Selection is an itera-
tive approach that selects contexts one by one, fo-
cusing exclusively on maximizing diversity. Each

12

new context is chosen to be as dissimilar as possible
from the already selected contexts, ensuring that
the final set covers a broad range of information.
However, this method sacrifices relevance to the
query, as it does not incorporate any mechanisms
for optimizing relevance scores.

Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) MMR
is a well-known method for balancing relevance
and diversity. It iteratively selects contexts that
are highly relevant to the query while penalizing
those that are too similar to the already selected
contexts. This ensures that the selected contexts
are both relevant and diverse, making MMR a more
balanced approach than methods focused solely on
relevance or diversity.

Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF)
NMF is a factorization technique that decomposes
the query-context similarity matrix into a set of la-
tent components, where each component represents
a topic. Contexts are then grouped into these topics,
and a representative context is selected from each
topic to ensure topic-wise coverage. While NMF
promotes diversity by capturing different aspects
of the data, it does not handle conflicts or directly
optimize relevance for each selected context.

Spectral Clustering Spectral Clustering uses the
eigenvalues of the similarity matrix to perform di-
mensionality reduction before clustering. By cap-
turing the underlying structure of the context space,
Spectral Clustering groups similar contexts and
selects representative contexts from each cluster.
This method promotes diversity, ensuring that a
range of perspectives is covered, though it does not
explicitly model relevance or conflict.

TextRank TextRank is a graph-based algorithm
used for text ranking, similar to Google’s PageR-
ank. In the context of RAG tasks, TextRank rep-
resents contexts as nodes in a graph, with edges
weighted by the cosine similarity between contexts.
The algorithm assigns higher ranks to more central
contexts (those connected to other relevant con-
texts), making it an effective method for identify-
ing key contexts based on their relevance within
the set. However, it does not address conflict or
redundancy directly.

LexRank LexRank is another graph-based
method similar to TextRank but focuses more on
centrality within the context graph. LexRank ranks
contexts based on their importance, determined by

their connection to other contexts in the graph. It
ensures that the selected contexts are representative
of the whole dataset, promoting diversity. However,
like TextRank, LexRank does not handle conflicts
or redundancy.

Random Selection This baseline randomly se-
lects contexts from the pool, without any consider-
ation for relevance, diversity, or conflict. Although
simplistic, it serves as a lower-bound comparison,
illustrating the importance of more sophisticated
context selection methods in RAG tasks.

B Implementation Details

To ensure reproducibility, we provide a detailed
overview of the key implementation settings and
parameters used in our experiments.

B.1 Data Retrieval and Preprocessing

Retrieval and Context Segmentation We use
the Contriever model to retrieve the top 50 doc-
uments per query. After retrieval, documents
are split into individual sentences using the Nat-
ural Language Toolkit (NLTK) (Bird and Loper,
2004). This sentence-level segmentation allows for
more precise analysis. The sentences are then re-
ranked using the bge-large-en-v1.5 embedding
model (Xiao et al., 2023), ensuring more relevant
and focused context selection. After pre-ranking,
SMART and other baseline methods are used to
select the final sentences from the pre-ranked pool,
optimizing the balance between relevance, diver-
sity, and conflict resolution.

BGE preranking
In the SMART framework, re-
lations between contexts and queries are estab-
lished at the sentence level. However, generating
relation matrices for all sentences is inefficient,
as many sentences are of low quality or noisy.
Moreover, processing all relations—particularly
the context-context conflict relation, with its com-
plexity of O(n2)—becomes computationally pro-
hibitive as n increases. To address this, we employ
a pre-ranking step using the BGE ranker, selecting
the top 30 sentences. Our method is then applied
to choose the top 5 sentences from this set. All
baseline methods also utilize this same pre-ranking
step to ensure a fair comparison. For initial docu-
ment retrieval, we use the Contriever model, which
retrieves the top 50 documents. These documents
are then split into sentences, and the BGE ranker is
applied at the sentence level.

B.2 Models

QA models For all QA tasks, we use the Llama3-
8b-instruct model (AI@Meta, 2024). Greedy de-
coding is applied with a temperature setting of
temp = 0, ensuring deterministic outputs by al-
ways selecting the most probable token at each
step.

Embedding Model For dense vector repre-
sentations of contexts and queries, we utilize
the bge-large-en-v1.5 embedding model (Xiao
et al., 2023), which captures semantic similarities
across textual inputs.

Natural Language Inference (NLI) Model To
detect and resolve conflicts between contexts, we
employ the DeBERTa-v3 model (Sileo, 2023). This
model identifies contradictions and entailments be-
tween text pairs, crucial for maintaining coherence
in selected contexts.

B.3 Hyperparameters

The number of selected sentences, topk, is fixed
at 5. We perform a grid search over a subset of
the development set to determine the optimal hy-
perparameters, with the results detailed in Table 2.
The beta parameter β, which controls the trade-off
between relevance and diversity, is adjusted across
values {0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0}. For β = 1.0,
the model relies almost entirely on relevance, and
we provide the BGE-ranking-only results for com-
parison. The gamma parameter γ, which influences
the handling of conflict resolution, is tuned within
the range {0.1, 0.2, . . . , 0.9}.

B.4 Hardware and Computational Efficiency

Hardware Setup All experiments were con-
ducted on an NVIDIA A40 GPU.

Computational Efficiency The construction of
the kernel matrix L for Determinantal Point Pro-
cesses (DPP) involves a time complexity of O(n2),
where n represents the number of contexts. Once
the kernel matrix is constructed, the DPP sampling
operates with a complexity of O(n3), providing
an efficient framework for context selection with-
out requiring extensive model training. Given the
absence of any training phases, SMART is compu-
tationally efficient and scalable, suitable for real-
time or large-scale applications with constrained
resources.

13

Prompts and Few-Shot Examples The prompts
used for question answering (QA) and query de-
composition are crucial to the performance of our
method. The specific prompts, along with the
few-shot examples employed, are detailed in Ap-
pendix E. These examples guide the model in gen-
erating contextually appropriate and accurate re-
sponses.

C Algorithm

Algorithm 1 Data Preprocessing for SMART
Input: Contexts C, Queries Q
Output: Preprocessed contexts C, Preprocessed

queries Q,

Context similarity matrix Scc,
Context conflict matrix Ccc,
Query-Context relevance matrix Sqc

1: Initialize empty lists C and Q
2: Initialize empty matrices Scc, Ccc, Sqc
3: for each c ∈ C do
4:

Segment context c into individual sentences
{s1, s2, . . . , sn} using NLTK
Add segmented context to C

5:
6: end for
7: for each ci, cj ∈ C do
8:

9:

10:

Compute cosine similarity between ci and
cj using dense vectors from BGE
Store similarity in Scc[i, j]
Compute conflict between ci and cj using
NLI models
Store conflict probability in Ccc[i, j]

11:
12: end for
13: for each q ∈ Q, c ∈ C do
14:

Compute cosine similarity between q and c
using BGE to measure the relevance of c to
q
Store relevance in Sqc[q, c]

15:
16: end for
17: return C, Q, Scc, Ccc, Sqc

Algorithm 2 DPP-based Context Selection with
Symmetrized Conflict Matrix
Input: Preprocessed contexts C, Context rele-

vance vector q,

Context similarity matrix Ksim,
Conflict matrix C,
Hyperparameters γ and θ, Number of con-

texts to select k

Output: Selected contexts Cselected
1: Compute the symmetrized conflict matrix C′:

C′

ij =

1
2

(Cij + Cji)

2: Initialize the weighted similarity matrix:

Kweighted = Ksim ◦ exp(−γ(1 − C′))

3: Construct the kernel matrix L for DPP:

L = Diag(q) · Kweighted · Diag(q)

4: Initialize an empty set Cselected
5: while |Cselected| < k do
6:

For each context c ∈ C \ Cselected, compute
the marginal gain:

∆c = log det(LCselected∪{c})−log det(LCselected)

7:

Select the context cbest that maximizes ∆c:

cbest = arg max
c∈C\Cselected

∆c

Add cbest to Cselected

8:
9: end while
10: Adjust the selected contexts by tuning the bal-

ance between relevance and diversity:

log det(LCselected) = β ·

(cid:88)

log(q2
i )

i∈Cselected

+ (1 − β) · log det(SCselected)

11: return Cselected

14

D Theoretical Proofs

D.1 Proof of Proposition 3.1(DPP kernel PSD)

Theorem 1. The kernel matrix L of a Determi-
nantal Point Process (DPP) must be positive semi-
definite (PSD).

Proof. A Determinantal Point Process (DPP) is
a probabilistic model used to define distributions
over subsets of a ground set Y = {1, 2, . . . , N }.
The DPP is parameterized by a kernel matrix
L ∈ RN ×N , where each entry Lij captures the
similarity between items i and j. The DPP defines
a probability distribution over all subsets Y ⊆ Y
as:

P(Y ) ∝ det(LY ),

where LY is the submatrix of L indexed by the
elements of Y .

to be valid,

For the DPP model
the kernel
matrix L must satisfy two key conditions: (1) The
matrix L must be symmetric, i.e., Lij = Lji for
all i, j ∈ Y. (2) The matrix L must be positive
semi-definite (PSD), which requires that for any
vector x ∈ RN ,

x⊤Lx ≥ 0.

The necessity for L to be PSD arises from the
properties of the determinant in the DPP model.
the probability assigned to any
Specifically,
subset Y is proportional to the determinant of
the submatrix LY . For this probability to be
non-negative, det(LY ) must be non-negative for
all subsets Y . This condition is satisfied if L is
PSD, as the determinant of any principal submatrix
of a PSD matrix is non-negative. Additionally,
the probability P(Y ) of selecting a subset Y must
be non-negative, implying that det(LY ) ≥ 0. If
L were not PSD, some submatrices LY could
have negative determinants, resulting in invalid
(negative) probabilities.

To ensure that P(Y ) ≥ 0 for all subsets Y ,
the matrix L must be such that for any vector
x ∈ RN , the quadratic form x⊤Lx ≥ 0 holds.
This condition implies that all eigenvalues of
L must be non-negative, which is a defining
characteristic of a PSD matrix.

determinants of all principal submatrices LY must
be non-negative to ensure valid (non-negative)
probabilities, and the quadratic form x⊤Lx ≥ 0
must hold for all x ∈ RN , necessitating that L
be PSD. Hence, the positive semi-definiteness of
the kernel matrix L is a fundamental requirement
for the DPP model to define a valid probability
distribution.

D.2 Proof of Proposition 3.2(CosSim PSD)

Theorem 2. The cosine similarity matrix A ∈
Rn×n, where each element Aij represents the co-
sine similarity between vectors vi and vj, is positive
semi-definite (PSD).

Proof. The cosine similarity between two vectors
vi and vj in Rd is defined as:

Aij = cos(θij) =

v⊤
i vj
∥vi∥∥vj∥

,

where θij is the angle between the vectors vi and
vj, and ∥vi∥ denotes the Euclidean norm of vector
vi. The matrix A is symmetric, with each entry
Aij representing the cosine similarity between the
i-th and j-th vectors.

Let V = [v1, v2, . . . , vn] ∈ Rd×n be a ma-
trix whose columns are the vectors vi. The cosine
similarity matrix A can be expressed as:

A = D−1V ⊤V D−1,

where D is a diagonal matrix with entries
Dii = ∥vi∥. Here, V ⊤V is the Gram matrix of the
vectors vi.

To prove that A is positive semi-definite,
we must show that for any vector x ∈ Rn, the
inequality x⊤Ax ≥ 0 holds.

Using the expression for A, we write:

x⊤Ax = x⊤D−1V ⊤V D−1x.

Letting y = D−1x, we have:

x⊤Ax = y⊤V ⊤V y = (V y)⊤(V y) = ∥V y∥2.

Since the squared Euclidean norm ∥V y∥2 ≥ 0 for
all vectors y, it follows that:

x⊤Ax ≥ 0.

the kernel matrix L of a DPP
Therefore,
must be positive semi-definite because the

Thus, the cosine similarity matrix A is positive
semi-definite.

15

D.3 Proof of Proposition 3.3(C not PSD)

Theorem 3. The conflict matrix C, constructed
from contradiction probabilities derived from a
Natural Language Inference (NLI) model, is not
guaranteed to be positive semi-definite (PSD) be-
cause it can be non-symmetric and may have nega-
tive eigenvalues.

Proof. Let C be an n × n matrix where each ele-
ment Cij represents the probability of contradiction
between two sentences Ci and Cj in an NLI frame-
work:

Cij = P (contradiction | premise = Ci,

hypothesis = Cj).

In this context, one sentence is treated as the
premise and the other as the hypothesis. Conse-
quently, the contradiction probability Cij may
differ from Cji, implying that the conflict matrix
C is not necessarily symmetric.

it
For a matrix to be positive semi-definite,
must satisfy two conditions: it must be symmetric,
meaning Cij = Cji for all i and j, and all of its
eigenvalues must be non-negative.

Given that C is not symmetric in general, it does
not satisfy the first condition necessary for positive
semi-definiteness. Moreover, non-symmetric
matrices can have complex or negative eigenvalues,
further challenging their positive semi-definiteness.

the following
To demonstrate this, consider
specific case where the conflict matrix is non-
symmetric:

Let n = 3, and consider the conflict matrix
C for three sentences C1, C2, and C3:

C =





0.8 0.7
0
0.9
0
0.8
0
0.7 0.8



 .

the non-symmetry and the exis-
Therefore,
tence of negative eigenvalues in the conflict
matrix C demonstrate that it cannot be guaranteed
to be positive semi-definite. This outcome is
expected, as positive semi-definiteness requires
both symmetry and non-negative eigenvalues,
conditions that are not inherently satisfied by the
conflict matrix in this context.

D.4 Proof of Proposition 3.4(C’ not PSD)

Theorem 4. The conflict matrix C, constructed
from the average of contradiction probabilities de-
rived from a Natural Language Inference (NLI)
model,
is not guaranteed to be positive semi-
definite (PSD) even after symmetrization. Although
symmetrizing C ensures it is symmetric, it may still
have negative eigenvalues, thus failing to satisfy
the criteria for positive semi-definiteness.

Proof. Let C be an n × n matrix where each ele-
ment Cij represents the symmetrized probability
of contradiction between two sentences Ci and Cj
in an NLI framework. The symmetrized conflict
matrix is constructed as follows:

Cij =

1
2

(cid:0)P (Ci → Cj)
+ P (Cj → Ci)(cid:1).

This symmetrization ensures that Cij = Cji for
all i and j, making the conflict matrix symmet-
ric. Symmetry is a necessary condition for positive
semi-definiteness, but it is not sufficient on its own.
For C to be PSD, all eigenvalues of C must also be
non-negative.

However, even with symmetrization, the conflict
matrix may have negative eigenvalues, indicating
that it is not necessarily PSD. To demonstrate this,
consider the following specific case where the con-
flict matrix is symmetrized but still fails to be PSD:
Let n = 3, and consider the conflict matrix C
for three sentences C1, C2, and C3. Suppose the
initial (non-symmetric) contradiction probabilities
are given by:

This matrix is clearly non-symmetric, as Cij ̸= Cji
for some pairs (i, j). The eigenvalues of this matrix
are approximately:

P (C1 → C2) = 0.8,
P (C1 → C3) = 0.7,
P (C2 → C3) = 0.9,

P (C2 → C1) = 0.6,
P (C3 → C1) = 0.5,
P (C3 → C2) = 0.8.

λ1 ≈ 1.568,

λ2 ≈ −0.868,

λ3 ≈ −0.7.

The symmetrized conflict matrix C is then:

The presence of negative eigenvalues λ2 and λ3
indicates that C is not positive semi-definite.

C =

16





0.7
0

0
0.7
0.6 0.85



 .

0.6
0.85
0

This matrix is symmetric, satisfying the first condi-
tion for being PSD. However, to determine whether
C is PSD, we must examine its eigenvalues.

The eigenvalues of this matrix are approxi-

mately:

λ1 ≈ 1.438,

λ2 ≈ −0.864,

λ3 ≈ −0.575.

The presence of negative eigenvalues λ2 and λ3 in-
dicates that C is not positive semi-definite, despite
being symmetric.

Therefore, even though the symmetrization pro-
cess Cij = 1
2 (Cij + Cji) guarantees that the con-
flict matrix is symmetric, it does not ensure posi-
tive semi-definiteness. The conflict matrix may still
have negative eigenvalues, which means it does not
satisfy the necessary condition for positive semi-
definiteness. This outcome highlights the limita-
tion of merely symmetrizing the conflict matrix in
guaranteeing its positive semi-definiteness.

D.5 Proof of Proposition 3.5(exp PSD)
Theorem 5. For any symmetric matrix C ∈ Rn×n
with all elements Cij ≥ 0 and any non-negative
scalar γ ≥ 0, the matrix exp(−γC) is positive
semi-definite (PSD).

Proof. Let C be an n × n symmetric matrix where
Cij ≥ 0 for all i, j, and let γ ≥ 0 be a non-negative
scalar.

Since C is symmetric, C = C⊤, meaning C can
be diagonalized by an orthogonal matrix. Specif-
ically, there exists an orthogonal matrix V and a
diagonal matrix Λ such that:

C = V ΛV ⊤,

where Λ is a diagonal matrix whose diagonal en-
tries λ1, λ2, . . . , λn are the eigenvalues of C.

The matrix exponential of −γC is given by:

exp(−γC) = V exp(−γΛ)V ⊤,

where exp(−γΛ) is a diagonal matrix with en-
tries exp(−γλ1), exp(−γλ2), . . . , exp(−γλn) on
the diagonal.

Since C is symmetric and all elements Cij ≥ 0,
the eigenvalues λ1, λ2, . . . , λn of C are real. Be-
cause Cij ≥ 0, the eigenvalues are also non-
negative (by the Perron-Frobenius theorem for non-
negative symmetric matrices, which states that all
eigenvalues are non-negative)(Perron, 1907).

Now consider the matrix exp(−γΛ), where

exp(−γλi) for each eigenvalue λi is given by:

exp(−γλi) > 0,

because the exponential function exp(x) is positive
for any real number x. Therefore, all the diagonal
entries of exp(−γΛ) are positive.

The matrix exp(−γC) = V exp(−γΛ)V ⊤ is a
similarity transformation of the diagonal matrix
exp(−γΛ). Since exp(−γΛ) is diagonal with pos-
itive entries, it is positive definite, and hence PSD.
Because similarity transformations preserve
eigenvalues, the eigenvalues of exp(−γC) are the
same as those of exp(−γΛ), which are positive.
Therefore, exp(−γC) is positive definite, and thus
positive semi-definite (PSD).

Since exp(−γC) is symmetric and all of its
eigenvalues are non-negative, it is positive semi-
definite. This completes the proof.

D.6 Proof of Proposition 3.6(Product PSD)

Theorem 6. Given a positive semi-definite (PSD)
similarity matrix Ksim ∈ Rn×n and a conflict ma-
trix C ∈ Rn×n, the weighted similarity matrix
Kweighted = Ksim ◦exp(−γC), where ◦ denotes the
element-wise (Hadamard) product and exp(−γC)
applies an element-wise exponential function to
C with γ ≥ 0, is guaranteed to be positive semi-
definite.

Proof. Let Ksim ∈ Rn×n be a PSD matrix. By
definition, this means that for any vector x ∈ Rn,
the quadratic form associated with Ksim satisfies:

x⊤Ksimx ≥ 0.

Let C ∈ Rn×n be a conflict matrix, and let γ ≥ 0
be a non-negative scalar.

Define exp(−γC) as the element-wise expo-
nential of −γC, meaning that each element
[exp(−γC)]ij is given by:

[exp(−γC)]ij = exp(−γCij),

where exp(−γCij) > 0 for all i, j.

two matrices A
The Hadamard product of
and B (denoted A ◦ B) is a matrix D where each
element Dij = AijBij.

A key result from Schur product
theorem is
that the Hadamard product of two PSD matrices

17

is also PSD, provided that both matrices are PSD
themselves(Schur, 1911).

Next, consider the matrix exp(−γC).
Since
C is symetric and each element of C > 0, from
Proposition 3.6 we know exp(−γC) is also PSD.

Proof. Let Y = {1, 2, . . . , n} represent a set of
sentences. In a Determinantal Point Process (DPP),
the probability distribution over subsets Yg ⊆ Y
is determined by the determinant of the submatrix
LYg , which corresponds to the elements in Yg. The
probability of selecting a subset Yg is given by

Now, define the weighted similarity matrix
as:

Kweighted = Ksim ◦ exp(−γC).

Kweighted is the Hadamard product of Ksim and
exp(−γC).

Since Ksim is PSD by assumption and exp(−γC)
is positive definite (and therefore PSD), their
Hadamard product Kweighted is also PSD.

Specifically,
the
quadratic form for Kweighted can be expressed as:

for any vector x ∈ Rn,

x⊤Kweightedx =

n
(cid:88)

n
(cid:88)

i=1

j=1

xixjKsim,ij exp(−γCij).

Since Ksim,ij ≥ 0 and exp(−γCij) > 0, it follows
that:

x⊤Kweightedx ≥ 0 for all x ∈ Rn.

Therefore, Kweighted is PSD.

Corollary 6.1. The weighted similarity matrix
Kweighted = Ksim ◦ exp(−γC) is guaranteed to
be positive semi-definite as long as Ksim is PSD
and exp(−γC) is a matrix with positive elements,
which it is by construction. The Hadamard prod-
uct of two PSD matrices is PSD, ensuring that
Kweighted retains the PSD property.

D.7 Proof of Proposition 3.7 (C Reduce)

Theorem 7. Given a positive semi-definite (PSD)
similarity matrix Ksim ∈ Rn×n and a conflict ma-
trix C ∈ Rn×n, the incorporation of conflict infor-
mation into the Determinantal Point Process (DPP)
via the weighted similarity matrix:

Kweighted = Ksim ◦ exp(−γ(1 − C)),

where γ ≥ 0, increases the probability of selecting
pairs of sentences with low conflict and reduces
the probability of selecting pairs of sentences with
high conflict.

P (Yg) ∝ det(LYg ),

where LYg is the submatrix of L corresponding to
the sentences in Yg.

The kernel matrix L is constructed as

L = Diag(q) · Kweighted · Diag(q),

where Kweighted = Ksim◦exp(−γ(1−C)), and q ∈
Rn is a vector of relevance scores, with Diag(q)
representing a diagonal matrix whose entries are
the elements of q. The matrix Ksim encodes the
pairwise similarity between sentences, and C rep-
resents the conflict matrix, where Cij ∈ [0, 1] de-
notes the level of conflict between sentences i and
j.

The weighted similarity matrix Kweighted incor-
porates conflict information through an element-
wise exponential transformation:

Kweighted,ij = Ksim,ij · exp(−γ(1 − Cij)).

This ensures that when Cij (the conflict between
sentences i and j) is large, exp(−γ(1 − Cij)) is
close to 1, preserving the similarity Ksim,ij.
In
contrast, when Cij is small, exp(−γ(1 − Cij)) is
close to 0, reducing the similarity and encouraging
the selection of non-conflicting sentences.

The kernel matrix L is influenced by the conflict-
adjusted similarity matrix Kweighted. Specifically,
the off-diagonal elements Lij and Lji, which en-
code the relationship between sentences i and j,
are given by

Lij = qi · Kweighted,ij · qj

= qi · Ksim,ij · exp (−γ(1 − Cij)) · qj.

This reduces Lij when Cij is small, correspond-

ing to high conflict between sentences i and j.

Consider a subset Yg = {i, j} consisting of two
sentences i and j. The determinant of the corre-
sponding 2 × 2 submatrix LYg is
(cid:19)(cid:19)

det(LYg ) = det

(cid:18)(cid:18)Lii Lij
Lji Ljj

= LiiLjj − L2
ij,

i · Ksim,ii and Ljj = q2

where Lii = q2
j · Ksim,jj
represent the relevance of sentences i and j, and
Lij = qi · Ksim,ij · exp(−γ(1 − Cij)) · qj.

18

Prompt E.4: NQ

You are a helpful and meticulous assistant.

You are provided with one or more contexts that
may contain evidence to help you arrive at the answer.
Answer the given question directly and briefly, starting
with "Answer:".

Prompt E.5: FM2

You are an AI assistant specialized in fact-checking and
natural language inference. Your task is to evaluate claims
based on provided evidence from Wikipedia and determine
whether the claim is true or false. Carefully examine the
evidence, considering details such as timeframes, factual
consistency, and logical coherence.

For each claim:
- If the evidence supports the claim, respond with "True".
- If the evidence refutes the claim, respond with "False".

Provide a brief explanation for your decision, clearly
citing relevant parts of the evidence. Your response should
start with "Answer:".

Prompt E.6: Prompt Format

[system prompt]

Context1: [context c1]
Context2: [context c2]
...
Contextn: [context cn]
Question: [question q]

Answer: [answer a]

Context1: [context c1]
Context2: [context c2]
...
Contextn: [context cn]
Question: [question q]

Answer: [answer a]

Question: [question q]

Answer: [answer a]

Context1: [context c1]
Context2: [context c2]
...
Contextn: [context cn]
Question: [question q]

If the conflict between sentences i and j is high
(i.e., Cij is small), then exp(−γ(1−Cij)) becomes
small, which makes Lij small. As a result, the
negative term L2
ij in the determinant expression
is reduced, increasing det(LYg ). This indicates
that the DPP discourages selecting both conflicting
sentences, since doing so would reduce the deter-
minant of the submatrix LYg .

On the other hand, if the conflict between i and
j is low (i.e., Cij is large), the term exp(−γ(1 −
Cij)) is close to 1, preserving the magnitude of
Lij. In this case, the determinant det(LYg ) reflects
a higher probability of selecting both sentences i
and j together.

Corollary 7.1. The incorporation of conflict
information via the weighted similarity matrix
Kweighted = Ksim ◦ exp(−γ(1 − C)) ensures that
conflicting sentences are less likely to be selected
together in the DPP, while sentences with low con-
flict are more likely to be jointly selected. This out-
come is achieved by modulating the off-diagonal
terms Lij in the kernel matrix L, which directly
affects the determinant and the subset selection
probabilities.

E Prompts and Few-shot Exemplars

Prompt E.1: FEVER

You are an AI assistant specialized in fact-checking claims
against a reliable knowledge base, such as Wikipedia. Your
goal is to verify the accuracy of the given claims by finding
supporting or refuting evidence. For each claim, determine
if it is "SUPPORTS" or "REFUTES". Clearly cite the
sources of your evidence, and ensure your explanations
are concise and accurate. Your response should start with
"Answer:". And your response is either "SUPPORTS" or
"REFUTES".

Prompt E.2: TQA

You are an AI assistant specialized in answering questions
based on a given text. Your goal is to read the provided
text carefully and extract accurate answers to the questions
based on the information within the text. Ensure your
answers are concise and directly relevant to the questions
asked. Do not use any information that is not present in the
provided text. Your response should start with "Answer:".

Prompt E.3: HotpotQA

You are an AI assistant specialized in answering complex
questions by performing multi-hop reasoning. Your goal is
to gather and combine information from multiple sources
to provide accurate answers to the given questions. Ensure
your answers are clear, concise, and based on the informa-
tion from the provided sources. Answer the given question
directly and briefly, starting with "Answer:".

19