Ontology-Aware RAG for Improved Question-Answering in
Cybersecurity Education

Chengshuai Zhao1 Garima Agrawal1, Tharindu Kumarage1, Zhen Tan1, Yuli Deng1,
Ying-Chih Chen2, Huan Liu1
1School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence, Arizona State University, USA
2Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, Arizona State University, USA
(czhao93; garima.agrawal; kskumara; ztan36; ydeng19; ychen495; huanliu)@asu.edu

4
2
0
2
c
e
D
0
1

]

Y
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
1
9
1
4
1
.
2
1
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Integrating AI into education has the potential to transform
the teaching of science and technology courses, particularly
in the field of cybersecurity. AI-driven question-answering
(QA) systems can actively manage uncertainty in cyberse-
curity problem-solving, offering interactive, inquiry-based
learning experiences. Large language models (LLMs) have
gained prominence in AI-driven QA systems, offering ad-
vanced language understanding and user engagement. How-
ever, they face challenges like hallucinations and limited
domain-specific knowledge, which reduce their reliability in
educational settings. To address these challenges, we propose
CyberRAG, an ontology-aware retrieval-augmented gener-
ation (RAG) approach for developing a reliable and safe
QA system in cybersecurity education. CyberRAG employs
a two-step approach: first, it augments the domain-specific
knowledge by retrieving validated cybersecurity documents
from a knowledge base to enhance the relevance and accuracy
of the response. Second, it mitigates hallucinations and mis-
use by integrating a knowledge graph ontology to validate the
final answer. Experiments on publicly available cybersecurity
datasets show that CyberRAG delivers accurate, reliable re-
sponses aligned with domain knowledge, demonstrating the
potential of AI tools to enhance education.

Introduction
The use of AI in education has the potential to transform the
way science and technology courses are taught. In scientific
learning, students are expected to engage in problem-solving
and exploration, yet traditional classroom methods often fo-
cus on the passive acquisition of established knowledge.
This approach limits opportunities for students to experience
the process of knowledge creation, leading to lower cogni-
tive engagement. Cybersecurity is a problem-based learn-
ing domain where students must master complex tools, de-
velop defense techniques, and uncover new threats, which
necessitates a re-imagination of traditional education prac-
tices (Shivapurkar, Bhatia, and Ahmed 2020).

Prior research highlights that managing uncertainty is a
crucial component of the learning process, as students often
struggle with acquiring new skills, applying diverse method-
ologies, and forming new understandings (Jordan 2015). Ed-
ucators can effectively manage this uncertainty by increas-
ing it through the introduction of authentic, ambiguous chal-

lenges to stimulate critical thinking, maintaining it to en-
courage deeper exploration and problem-solving, and re-
ducing it by identifying optimal solutions to help students
integrate new insights with existing knowledge (Chen, Be-
nus, and Hernandez 2019). AI-driven question-answering
(QA) systems can help manage this uncertainty in technical
problem-solving by supporting self-paced learning, signifi-
cantly enhancing cognitive engagement (Means 2021).

In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have
become central to AI-driven technologies. While LLM-
powered QA systems hold great promise for enhancing
learning, they also face challenges such as hallucination and
limited domain knowledge, which can undermine their ef-
fectiveness (Agrawal et al. 2024a; Huang et al. 2023; Zhang
et al. 2023; Xu, Jain, and Kankanhalli 2024). In cyberse-
curity education, where precision is critical, ensuring the
accuracy of AI-generated content is essential. For exam-
ple, in tasks such as identifying vulnerabilities or interpret-
ing security policies, inaccurate AI responses could lead to
misinformation, compromising the learning experience and,
potentially, real-world security (Kumarage et al. 2024). A
promising solution to address this challenge is the retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) approach (Lewis et al. 2020),
where the model generates responses by retrieving informa-
tion from a validated knowledge base, thereby enhancing the
accuracy and reliability.

Although the RAG approach helps reduce hallucinations
and address domain knowledge issues to some extent, the
reliability of LLM-generated answers remains a concern
for achieving educational goals. Students may ask ques-
tions that fall outside the scope of the augmented cyberse-
curity knowledge base. In such cases, LLMs rely on their
own parametric knowledge to generate responses, which can
expose the QA system to risks of misinformation or mis-
use (Tan et al. 2024a,b; Kumarage et al. 2024). In an edu-
cational setting, it is also crucial to prevent students from
manipulating the AI system for unintended purposes. There
is a strong need to provide a validation system to ensure the
accuracy and safety of LLM-generated responses. One po-
tential solution is reinforcement learning from human feed-
back (RLHF) (Christiano et al. 2017). However, this method
requires verification by cybersecurity experts, making it
labor-intensive, costly, and time-consuming. Preferably, an
automatic validation approach is needed. Domain-specific

 
 
 
 
 
 
knowledge graphs, which structure expert knowledge and
capture the interactions between key entities in alignment
with domain rules (Abu-Salih 2021), offer a promising
direction. The knowledge graph ontology encodes these
rules (Kejriwal 2019). By leveraging this ontology, LLM re-
sponses can be validated by fact-checking against the prede-
fined rules, ensuring greater accuracy and reliability without
the need for constant human oversight.

In this paper, we propose CyberRAG, an ontology-aware
RAG approach for developing a reliable QA system in
cybersecurity education, comprising two key components.
First, we utilize RAG methods to retrieve validated cyber-
security documents from a knowledge base, enhancing both
the accuracy and relevance of the answers. Through finely
crafted prompts, CyberRAG improves QA performance by
leveraging both cybersecurity content and the natural lan-
guage processing capabilities of LLMs. Additionally, we in-
troduce an ontology-based validation approach that uses a
cybersecurity knowledge graph ontology to automatically
verify LLM-generated responses, thereby preventing poten-
tial risks of misuse and hallucination. We conduct com-
prehensive experiments on publicly available datasets to
demonstrate the effectiveness of CyberRAG in delivering
reliable and accurate answers. Our research explores the
potential of integrating AI into education, emphasizing its
transformative impact on traditional methods. This approach
extends beyond cybersecurity and can also be applied to
other educational subjects. Our contributions can be sum-
marized as follows:

• We propose CyberRAG, a novel and reliable computa-
tional framework aimed at creating an interactive and se-
cure environment for cybersecurity education.

• We design finely crafted prompts that enable CyberRAG
to produce accurate and relevant answers by integrating a
cybersecurity knowledge base with the vast prior knowl-
edge present in LLMs.

• We explore the use of knowledge graph ontology to val-
idate LLM-generated responses, ensuring accuracy and
preventing potential misuse of QA systems in education.

Related Work

RAG in Education
Generative models have the potential to transform tradi-
tional education by enabling personalized learning and au-
tomating content creation, making education more adaptive
and accessible (George 2023). The integration of LLMs in
education has further enhanced conversational capabilities,
supporting self-paced learning through AI-driven question-
answering tools and bots (Moore et al. 2023; Upadhyay et al.
2024). However, the use of LLMs also presents challenges,
particularly the risks of hallucinations and inaccurate re-
sponses, which are critical concerns in educational contexts
and must be carefully managed to ensure responsible imple-
mentation (Yan et al. 2024; Li et al. 2023). To address these
issues, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) methods are
used by combining LLMs with real-time knowledge base
retrieval to improve response accuracy ensuring content is

current and reliable in educational settings (Dakshit 2024;
Liu et al. 2024; Modran et al. 2024).

LLM-generated Answer Validation

However, most LLM approaches are currently limited to
handling simple queries, as generating complex answers
from extensive knowledge articles and course materials
sourced from diverse knowledge bases remains challenging,
often leading to issues with the correctness of the answers
(Elmessiry and Elmessiry 2024). Jeong et al. (Jeong et al.
2024) proposed an adaptive QA approach to handle complex
questions, while Li et al. (Li, Liu, and Gao 2024) developed
an evaluation framework for grounded and modular assess-
ment of RAG responses.

Various domains are using knowledge graphs to enhance
LLMs’ reasoning and retrieval capabilities (Hussien et al.
2024; Agrawal et al. 2024b; De Santis et al. 2024). An on-
tology within a KG, which defines the rules of a specific
domain, can also be used to validate LLM responses by
checking the correctness of relationships between key en-
tities (Agrawal et al. 2024a). This capability is particularly
valuable in educational settings, where ensuring the accu-
racy of LLM-generated content is crucial. While some stu-
dent questions may extend beyond the scope of the aug-
mented course material or knowledge base, ontology-aware
validation offers a promising solution. However, research
in this area remains limited. Our ontology-aware methods
mark a significant advancement in this field.

AI for Cybersecurity Education

Learning cybersecurity is crucial for national security, safe-
guarding critical infrastructure, and ensuring defense (Al-
Daajeh et al. 2022; Newhouse et al. 2017; Rahman et al.
2020). However, mastering this complex field requires deep
knowledge of concepts, tools, and attack-defense simula-
tions (Cheung et al. 2011; Schneider 2013; Ai et al. 2024).
While AI shows promising potential in enhancing cogni-
tive learning, research on its application in cybersecurity ed-
ucation remains limited (Laato et al. 2020; Grover, Broll,
and Babb 2023; Wei-Kocsis et al. 2023; Ferrari, Wong, and
Khmelevsky 2024). Previous efforts include structured flow
graphs from CTF texts for vulnerability analysis (Pal et al.
2021) and knowledge graphs for guiding student projects
(Deng et al. 2019, 2021; Deng, Zeng, and Huang 2021).
Additionally, a semi-automated approach has been used to
create knowledge graphs from unstructured course mate-
rial, improving student learning (Agrawal et al. 2022). The
AISecKG ontology(Agrawal et al. 2023) further advanced
this by generating cybersecurity KG and the CyberQ dataset
(Agrawal et al. 2024c) for LLM-based question-answering.
However, a significant gap remains: the lack of a self-
paced learning cybersecurity QA system. To address this, we
leverage the CyberQ dataset to retrieve structured, authenti-
cated cybersecurity content using RAG and validate LLM
outputs with the AISecKG ontology, particularly for queries
beyond the scope of the CyberQ dataset. Our approach en-
hances the accuracy, reliability, and safety of AI-driven edu-
cation tools, effectively addressing this critical research gap.

Figure 1: Overview of CyberRAG Framework.

Preliminaries
In this section, we will outline the fundamental concepts un-
derlying our proposed CyberRAG framework.

Problem Formulation
We consider cybersecurity problem-based learning to be
a question-answering (QA) problem. Specifically, students
raise a series of questions Q = {q1, q2, ..., q|Q|}, we ex-
pect the model to output corresponding responses as answers
A = {a1, a2, ..., a|A|}, where |Q| = |A| in our scenario.

RAG System
We employ a retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) system
as a base framework to solve our problem because of its
impressive capacity for hallucination mitigation. A classic
RAG approach entails two parts:

• A retriever R that can effectively retrieve reference doc-
uments D = {d1, d2, ..., d|D|} from the knowledge base
K (e.g., knowledge graph, QA database, and text materi-
als) based on query-document relevance.

• A generation model (e.g., large language model) G that
provides answers using the documents and human in-
structions I = {i1, i2, ..., i|I|}.

Knowledge Graph Ontology
In the context of our CyberRAG framework, we incorporate
knowledge graph ontology to validate the LLM-generated
responses. A knowledge graph (KG) is a structured repre-
sentation of knowledge in which entities (a.k.a, nodes) are
connected by relationships (a.k.a, edges). Formally, we de-
fine a knowledge graph as a tuple G = (E, R), where
E = {e1, e2, ..., e|E|} represents the set of entities, and
R = {r1, r2, ..., r|R|} represents the set of relationships be-
tween these entities. Each relationship r ∈ R can be viewed
as a directed edge connecting two entities ei and ej in the
graph, thereby forming a triplet (ei, r, ej).

To further formalize the structure and semantics of the
domain knowledge represented in our system, we utilize an
ontology O. An ontology is a formal specification of a set
of concepts within a domain and the relationships between
those concepts. Formally, we define an ontology O as a tuple
O = (C, RC, HC), where C = {c1, c2, ..., c|C|} is a set of
concepts, RC = {rC
2 , ..., rC
|RC |} is a set of conceptual
relationships, and HC ⊆ C × C is a hierarchical structure
(e.g., a taxonomy) that organizes these concepts.

1 , rC

Method

In this section, we first introduce our approach to Cyber-
RAG. The detailed design of each component is then dis-
cussed in the subsequent sections.

CyberRAG

Our proposed framework, named CyberRAG, comprises
two key components: a retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) system and an ontology-based answer validation
module. By leveraging the RAG system with carefully
crafted prompts, CyberRAG effectively addresses students’
questions by utilizing cybersecurity knowledge materi-
als and the natural language understanding capabilities of
LLMs. The ontology-based validation approach ensures that
the responses provided to students are both reliable and se-
cure. An overview of CyberRAG is presented in Fig. 1.

Cybersecurity Knowledge Retrieval

To retrieve cybersecurity material from the knowledge base,
the first step is to design an effective retriever. We utilize
a dual-encoder dense retriever containing two encoders: a
question encoder EQ, which projects student queries into a
shared semantic latent space, and a document encoder ED,
which embeds knowledge base documents into correspond-
ing vector representations. These encoders are optimized to
maintain semantic proximity between queries and relevant

OntologyRetrieveRetrieverGenerative Language ModelPassNot PassAnswer ValidationAnswerFactors such as potential impact, exploitability, and affected systems are considered...Human Expert Instruction(app, has_a, feature) (function, uses, tool(user, uses, system) ...QuestionWhat criteria are used to determine the severity level of a vulnerability?DocumentThe severity level of a vulnerability is typically determined by analyzing its potential consequences...DocumentAnswerHuman InstructionOntologyQuestionDataFlowQuery EncoderDocument EncoderPlease judge if theQUESTION andANSWER align well with...Answer the user'sQUESTION using theDOCUMENT text above...documents, ensuring that encoded representations are well-
aligned in the latent space, thereby facilitating accurate re-
trieval. Note that the question encoder and the document en-
coder can be the same in some settings. Then, the retriever
can retrieve the top k documents according to the query-
document similarity.

Specifically, given a query qi ∈ Q and a document dj ∈
D, they are encoded by query encoder EQ and document
encoder ED, respectively.

hqi = EQ(qi)
(1)
hdj = ED(dj)
(2)
where hqi and hdj are latent representations of query qi and
document dj.

Then, the semantic relevance between the question and
the document is defined by cosine similarity between their
latent vectors:

sim(hqi , hdj ) =

hqi · hdj
∥hqi∥∥hdj ∥

(3)

where hqi · hdj are inner product of two vectors and ∥hqi∥
and ∥hdj ∥ are the magnitudes (a.k.a. Euclidean norms) of qi
and di, respectively.

Based on the similarities. top-k relevant course docu-

ments can be retrieved.

D = R(Q, K)

(4)

Cybersecurity Answer Generation
After retrieving relevant cybersecurity documents, the next
step is to prompt the generative model (i.e., LLMs) to
generate answers. The most challenging aspect is design-
ing a prompt that maximizes the effectiveness of both the
retrieved information and the generative model. An ideal
prompt should guide the model to summarize the informa-
tion when the retrieved documents are highly relevant and
encourage the model to generate new responses by lever-
aging its own knowledge when the retrieved information is
insufficient or incomplete.

We design the prompt as illustrated in the Answer Gen-
eration Prompt. The proposed prompt consists of three key
elements:
• Documents: The documents relevant to the student’s
query are retrieved by the retriever from the knowledge
base, using the method outlined in the previous section.
• Questions: These are queries raised by students, which

the generative model is tasked with answering.

• Instructions: These are rules and prompts designed by
domain experts. The first two instructions guide the gen-
erative model to answer students’ questions by refer-
encing the retrieved documents. The third instruction
encourages the model to generate responses based on
its own knowledge when the documents are insuffi-
cient. Thus the proposed framework can address stu-
dents’ queries, whether or not they are covered by the
knowledge base.

The final prompt is given as input to the generative model to
generate the answer to the student’s query:

A = G(D, Q, I)

(5)

Answer Generation Prompt

DOCUMENT

Factors such as potential impact, exploitabil-
ity, and affected systems are considered when
determining the severity level of a vulnera-
bility. Factors such as the ease of exploita-
tion, potential impact, and affected systems
or data are typically considered when deter-
mining the severity level of a vulnerability.
The severity level of a vulnerability is typ-
ically determined by analyzing its potential
consequences, ease of exploitation, and the
systems it affects.

QUESTION

What criteria are used to determine the sever-
ity level of a vulnerability?

INSTRUCTION

Answer the user’s QUESTION using the
DOCUMENT text above.
Keep your answer grounded in the facts of
the DOCUMENT.
If the DOCUMENT doesn’t contain the facts
to answer the QUESTION, give a response
based on your knowledge.

Ontology-based Answer Validation
For ontology validation, we used AISecKG (Agrawal 2023),
a cybersecurity education ontology that defines relation-
ships between concepts, applications, and roles within the
cybersecurity domain. AISecKG organizes these into three
broad categories with 12 entity types. Concepts include
features, functions, data, attacks, vulnerabilities, and tech-
niques, while applications cover tools, systems, and apps.
Roles consist of users, attackers, and security teams. The on-
tology defines nine core relationships between these entities,
represented by 68 unique edges. For example, tuples such
as (‘attacker’, ‘can exploit’, ‘feature’) and (‘security team’,
‘can analyze’, ‘feature’) illustrate entities and these relation-
ships. These triples represent the fundamental domain rules
that govern cybersecurity information at a schema level. By
leveraging these ontology-based triples along with the nat-
ural language understanding capabilities of LLMs, an au-
tomatic answer validation system can be developed for the
cybersecurity domain.

Specifically, given the question Q and the corresponding
response A provided by the generative language model, the
validation model V takes the QA contexts, ontology rules
denoted by O = {o1, o2, ..., o|O|}, and validation human in-
struct I ′ as the input, then produces the validation result R.

R = V(Q, A, O, I ′)

(6)

Algorithm 1: CyberRAG Algorithm
Input: queries Q
Parameter: knowledge base K, retriever R, human expert
instruction I, I ′, generative language model G, ontology O,
validation model V, threshold σ
Output: answers A
1: Retrieve documents from the knowledge base with Eq. 4
2: Produce answers via generative model with Eq. 5
3: Verify answers via ontology-based validation with Eq. 6
4: if R > σ then
5:
6: else
7:
8: end if

Return Not Pass

Return A

Note that R ∈ [0, 1], and a higher score indicates the re-
sponse aligns with the ontology well. The complete valida-
tion prompt is shown in the Ontology Validation Prompt.

Ontology Validation Prompt

QUESTION

What criteria are used to determine the sever-
ity level of a vulnerability?

ANSWER

Factors like potential impact, exploitability,
and affected systems are considered when de-
termining the severity level of a vulnerability.

ONTOLOGY

(attacker, can harm, system),
(system, can expose, vulnerability),
(function, can analyze, vulnerability) ...

INSTRUCTION

Please judge if the QUESTION and AN-
SWER align well with the ONTOLOGY.
The QUESTION and ANSWER align well
with the ONTOLOGY if they are in the same
knowledge domain as the ONTOLOGY and
the ANSWER follows the relationships de-
fined in the ONTOLOGY.
The output format is a tuple: (your judgment:
Pass/Not Pass, confidence score)

By setting an appropriate threshold σ, the pipeline can
effectively filter out incorrect answers and identify poten-
tial misuse behavior. The CyberRAG algorithm is outlined
in Algorithm 1.

Experiment and Discussion

Dataset
In this work, we use CyberQ (Agrawal et al. 2024c),
an open-source cybersecurity dataset containing around
4,000 open-ended questions and answers on topics such
as cybersecurity concepts, tool usage, setup instructions,
attack analysis, and defense techniques. The questions
vary in complexity, answer length, and vocabulary. The
dataset was developed using facts from AISecKG (Agrawal
2023), a cybersecurity knowledge graph, and a three-step
LLM prompting method. The Zero-shot (ZS) method gen-
erated 1,027 QA pairs for simple WH-questions on cy-
bersecurity entities. The Few-shot (FS) method produced
332 medium-complexity QA pairs related to setup and
tools. The Ontology-Driven approach generated 2,171 high-
complexity QA pairs covering attack and defense scenar-
ios. The dataset includes 30 very short, 1,061 short, and
2,439 long questions. These cybersecurity questions and an-
swers are comprehensive, challenging, and not straightfor-
ward, making them ideal for our goal of developing an inter-
active QA system to teach cybersecurity to students.

Experiment and Parameter Settings
The knowledge base for our experiments is the CyberQ
dataset (Agrawal et al. 2024c), and the cybersecurity knowl-
edge graph ontology utilized in this work is AISecKG
(Agrawal 2023). In future work, the knowledge base can
be expanded to include other PDF documents containing
cybersecurity-related coursework material. For brevity, we
will refer to the CyberQ dataset as our KB and AISecKG as
our ontology. We conduct the main experiments in two sce-
narios: within the knowledge base (In-KB) and outside the
knowledge base (Out-of-KB). For the In-KB scenario, stu-
dents’ queries can be answered using existing documents in
the knowledge base, while the Out-of-KB scenario involves
queries for which relevant documents are not present in the
knowledge base.

We consider BERTScore (Zhang et al. 2020), ME-
TEOR (Banerjee and Lavie 2005), ROUGE-1 (Lin 2004),
and ROUGE-2 (Lin 2004) as metrics to evaluate the perfor-
mance of the generated response. It is important to note that
the ground truth answers in the CyberQ dataset are annotated
by human cybersecurity experts. Unless otherwise specified,
each experiment is run 10 times, with average scores and
standard deviations recorded.

We use the Contriever (Izacard et al. 2022) as the re-
triever for document retrieval, employing cosine similar-
ity as the semantic distance metric to identify and retrieve
the most relevant documents from the knowledge base. For
the generative language model, we utilize LLaMA3-8B-
Instruct (Dubey et al. 2024), with an input text length of 256
and max-length padding. During the answer generation pro-
cess, the number of beams for beam search is set to 4. The
ontology-based validation model is formulated using an-
other instance of LLaMA3-8B-Instruct (Dubey et al. 2024),
with an input text length of 512 and max-length padding.
For all other parameters not explicitly mentioned, default
settings are applied.

Dataset

Scenarios

BERTScore ↑

METEOR ↑

ROUGE-1 ↑

ROUGE-2 ↑

ZS

FS

OD

0.8571 ± 2.0e-4
Zero Shot
Out of KB 0.8720 ± 1.0e-4
0.9294 ± 1.0e-4

In KB

0.8654 ± 1.0e-4
Zero Shot
Out of KB 0.8758 ± 2.0e-4
0.9461 ± 1.0e-4

In KB

0.8601 ± 1.0e-4
Zero Shot
Out of KB 0.8783 ± 1.0e-4
0.9331 ± 1.0e-4

In KB

0.2645 ± 1.4e-3
0.3489 ± 1.3e-3
0.7861 ± 5.0e-4

0.3055 ± 1.0e-3
0.3746 ± 9.0e-4
0.8588 ± 7.0e-4

0.2866 ± 8.0e-4
0.3912 ± 6.0e-4
0.7861 ± 4.0e-4

0.1326 ± 7.0e-4
0.2174 ± 6.0e-4
0.6490 ± 6.0e-4

0.2164 ± 1.3e-3
0.3130 ± 1.2e-3
0.7882 ± 5.0e-4

0.1524 ± 5.0e-4
0.2587 ± 5.0e-4
0.6407 ± 5.0e-4

0.0626 ± 7.0e-4
0.1015 ± 7.0e-4
0.5977 ± 6.0e-4

0.0954 ± 1.1e-3
0.1484 ± 8.0e-4
0.7195 ± 8.0e-4

0.0703 ± 5.0e-4
0.1234 ± 3.0e-4
0.5931 ± 5.0e-4

Table 1: Performance across different datasets and scenarios.

Research Questions
To assess our approach, we employ the following evaluation
methodology and begin by posing the following research
questions (RQs):

• RQ1: How does the integration of a knowledge base en-
hance the performance of the CyberRAG framework in
generating accurate and relevant answers for both In-KB
and Out-of-KB queries?

• RQ2: What is the impact of the knowledge base and the
generative language model on the overall performance of
CyberRAG, and how does their ablation affect the sys-
tem’s ability to answer students’ questions?

• RQ3: How does the integration of a knowledge base in-
fluence the quality and reliability of answers generated
by the CyberRAG framework, and what are the key ben-
efits observed from the retrieval process?

• RQ4: How effective is the ontology-based validation
model in ensuring the accuracy, relevance, and scope of
answers generated by CyberRAG. Can this validate and
prevent potential misuse behaviors?

Quantitative Results
To address RQ1, we design a comparative experiment. As
shown in Table 1, a⃝ CyberRAG consistently achieves good
performance across all datasets and scenarios. For instance,
the In-KB question-answering on the FS dataset gives a
BertScore of 0.9461, a METEOR of 0.8588, a ROUGE-1 of
0.7882, and a ROUGE-2 of 0.7195. These results demon-
strate that the answers generated by CyberRAG not only
align well with the semantic meaning of the ground truth
but also closely match in exact word terms. b⃝ Compared
with the Out-of-KB, the model shows relatively higher per-
formance for In-KB questions. For example, in the ZS sub-
set for In-KB questions, the model achieves a BERTScore
of 0.9294, and for more complex questions in the OD sub-
set, it reaches 0.9331. In contrast, for Out-of-KB questions,
the BERTScore is 0.8720 in ZS and 0.8783 for the OD sub-
set. This indicates that the integration of the knowledge base
provides a solid reference for generating answers for open-
ended questions in cybersecurity, enhancing the model’s per-
formance across both simple and complex queries.. c⃝ Cy-
berRAG provides semantically meaningful and high-quality

answers for questions outside the knowledge base. For ex-
ample, in the OD dataset with the Out-of-KB settings, the
BERTScore is 0.8783, while the METEOR, ROUGE-1, and
ROUGE-2 are 0.3912, 0.2587, and 0.1234, respectively.
This suggests that while the generated answers may not ex-
actly match the ground truth in wording, they are highly
similar to expert-certified answers in meaning. d⃝ Further-
more, the results show a very low standard deviation (std) in
both In-KB and the Out-of-KB settings, with std values con-
sistently below 0.0011. This demonstrates that CyberRAG
is both stable and reliable in producing accurate answers.
Overall, these findings suggest that our proposed method is
promising for answering cybersecurity-related questions.

Ablation Study
We conducted an ablation study to investigate RQ2; we
consider two scenarios: (i) CyberRAG is built solely on a
question-answering dataset, such as CyberQ, without utiliz-
ing the generative language model. In this case, the QA sys-
tem is unable to answer questions beyond the scope of the
training dataset, which is undesirable as it limits the breadth
of cybersecurity education. (ii) CyberRAG without aug-
menting the knowledge base. In this case, the model essen-
tially reverts to functioning as a generative language model,
answering questions in a zero-shot manner. As shown in
Fig. 1, the results under zero-shot settings are considerably
inferior. Compared to the In-KB scenarios, the model un-
der zero-shot setting lacks access to the ground truth infor-
mation for reference, leading to significant drop in perfor-
mances. When comparing the zero-shot results with Out-of-
KB scenarios, the latter demonstrates a better performance.
This is because, although Out-of-kb can not be answered
directly using documents from the knowledge base, these
documents still provide relevant and supplementary infor-
mation that may help in formulating the answers. In conclu-
sion, both the knowledge base and the generative language
model play significant roles in enhancing the performance
of a QA systems in cybersecurity education.

Retrieval Analysis
To research RQ3, we design a retrieval analysis. First, we
acquire the documents retrieved from the knowledge base
and then compare the response produced by CyberRAG with

Figure 2: Case Study. The answer validation case study (left) elaborates on how the validation model prevents misuse behaviors.
The CyberRAG case study (right) showcases the data flow details.

the ground truth to explore how CyberRAG benefits from
the retrieval augmentation process. We consider the Faith-
fulness, Answer Relevancy, Context Precision, Context Re-
call, and Context Entity Recall as metrics and use the RA-
GAS (ES et al. 2024) package to evaluate our method.

Metric

ZS

FS

OD

Faithfulness ↑
Answer Relevancy ↑
Context Precision ↑
Context Recall ↑
Context Entity Recall ↑

0.8134
0.9825
0.9890
0.9909
0.9392

0.8914
0.9860
1.0000
0.9974
0.9512

0.7598
0.9828
0.9960
0.9946
0.9671

Table 2: RAGAS evaluation for CyberRAG.

As shown in Table 2, our proposed method CyberRAG
shows satisfactory results on all metrics, especially on An-
swer Relevancy, Context Precision, Context Recall, and
Context Entity Recall. These results indicate that the re-
trieved documents are highly relevant and accurate for an-
swer generation and the generated response adheres to the
reference documents, with minimal hallucination. It is also
worth mentioning that there is still some room for improve-
ment in the Faithfulness metrics. The lower score can be
attributed to the generative model introducing additional
knowledge from itself to enrich the answers, which is oth-
erwise beneficial for the Out-of-KB question-answering.

Answer Validation Analysis with Case Study
We designed an answer validation analysis to explore RQ4.
We simulate a case-study with an out-of-domain query, such
as, “How to make money in the stock market?” - a query that

can be considered an unintended or misused case. As shown
in Fig. 2, although the generative language model produces
the corresponding answer, it is filtered out by the validation
model because it fails to adhere to cybersecurity knowledge
graph ontology. Conversely, when a relevant cybersecurity
question is posed, it smoothly passes the validation test,
highlighting the critical role the ontology-based validation
model in ensuring accuracy and preventing potential misuse.
Fig. 2 illustrates the data flow in the case study, demonstrat-
ing the transparency and reliability of CyberRAG.

Conclusion
The rapid advancement of AI is transforming education,
particularly in technical fields like cybersecurity. AI-driven
QA systems enhance cognitive engagement by manag-
ing uncertainty in problem-based learning. Our proposed
CyberRAG introduces a novel, ontology-aware retrieval-
augmented generation approach to create a reliable QA
system for cybersecurity education. By leveraging domain
knowledge and an ontology-based validation model, Cyber-
RAG ensures relevance, accuracy, and safety of responses.
Comprehensive experiments demonstrate its dependability
in real-world scenarios, fostering a more interactive and se-
cure learning environment. This research highlights the po-
tential of AI to transform educational practices, not only in
cybersecurity but across various subjects. As AI in education
evolves, future research will explore innovative methods like
virtual environments to further enhance students’ practical
experiences using LLM agents.

Answer Validation Case StudyStudent QuestionHow to make money in the stock market? Please give a summary answer.Response by Generative Language Model:To make money in the stock market: Educate Yourself: Learn the basics of stocks, market operations, and investment strategies. Set Financial Goals: Define your investment objectives and assess your risk tolerance. Develop a Strategy: Choose between long-term investing, day trading, or other strategies. Diversify: Spread investments across different sectors and asset types to reduce risk. Invest Regularly: Consistently invest a portion of your income. Stay Informed: Keep up with market news and adjust your strategy as needed. Be Patient: Focus on long-term growth and avoid reacting to short-term market fluctuations...Answer Validation(Not Pass, 0.1)CyberRAG Case StudyRetrieved Document from Knowledge BaseFactors such as potential impact, exploitability, and affected systems are considered when determining the severity level of a vulnerability.Factors such as the ease of exploitation, potential impact, and affected systems or data are typically considered when determining the severity level of a vulnerability.The severity level of a vulnerability is typically determined by analyzing its potential consequences, ease of exploitation, and the systems it affects.Student QuestionWhat criteria are used to determine the severity level of a vulnerability?Answer: Factors such as potential impact, exploitability, and affected systems are considered when determining the severity level of a vulnerability...Answer Validation(Pass, 0.9)References
Abu-Salih, B. 2021. Domain-specific knowledge graphs:
A survey. Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
185: 103076.
Agrawal, G. 2023. Aiseckg: Knowledge graph dataset for
cybersecurity education. AAAI-MAKE 2023: Challenges Re-
quiring the Combination of Machine Learning 2023.
Agrawal, G.; Deng, Y.; Park, J.; Liu, H.; and Chen, Y.-C.
2022. Building knowledge graphs from unstructured texts:
Applications and impact analyses in cybersecurity educa-
tion. Information, 13(11): 526.
Agrawal, G.; Kumarage, T.; Alghamdi, Z.; and Liu, H.
2024a. Can Knowledge Graphs Reduce Hallucinations in
In Proceedings of the 2024 Confer-
LLMs? : A Survey.
ence of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies
(Volume 1: Long Papers), 3947–3960. Mexico City, Mexico:
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Agrawal, G.; Kumarage, T.; Alghamdi, Z.; and Liu, H.
Mindful-RAG: A Study of Points of Fail-
2024b.
arXiv preprint
ure in Retrieval Augmented Generation.
arXiv:2407.12216.
Agrawal, G.; Pal, K.; Deng, Y.; Liu, H.; and Baral, C. 2023.
AISecKG: Knowledge Graph Dataset for Cybersecurity Ed-
In Proceedings of the AAAI 2023 Spring Sym-
ucation.
posium on Challenges Requiring the Combination of Ma-
chine Learning and Knowledge Engineering (AAAI-MAKE
2023), Hyatt Regency, San Francisco Airport, California,
USA, March 27-29, 2023, volume 3433 of CEUR Workshop
Proceedings. CEUR-WS.org.
Agrawal, G.; Pal, K.; Deng, Y.; Liu, H.; and Chen, Y.-C.
2024c. CyberQ: Generating Questions and Answers for Cy-
bersecurity Education Using Knowledge Graph-Augmented
LLMs. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, volume 38, 23164–23172.
Ai, L.; Kumarage, T.; Bhattacharjee, A.; Liu, Z.; Hui,
Z.; Davinroy, M.; Cook, J.; Cassani, L.; Trapeznikov, K.;
Kirchner, M.; et al. 2024. Defending Against Social En-
arXiv preprint
gineering Attacks in the Age of LLMs.
arXiv:2406.12263.
AlDaajeh, S.; Saleous, H.; Alrabaee, S.; Barka, E.; Bre-
itinger, F.; and Choo, K.-K. R. 2022. The role of national
cybersecurity strategies on the improvement of cybersecu-
rity education. Computers & Security, 119: 102754.
Banerjee, S.; and Lavie, A. 2005. METEOR: An Auto-
matic Metric for MT Evaluation with Improved Correlation
In Proceedings of the Workshop
with Human Judgments.
on Intrinsic and Extrinsic Evaluation Measures for Ma-
chine Translation and/or Summarization@ACL 2005, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, USA, June 29, 2005, 65–72. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Chen, Y.-C.; Benus, M. J.; and Hernandez, J. 2019. Manag-
ing uncertainty in scientific argumentation. Science Educa-
tion, 103(5): 1235–1276.
Cheung, R. S.; Cohen, J. P.; Lo, H. Z.; and Elia, F. 2011.
Challenge based learning in cybersecurity education. In Pro-
ceedings of the International Conference on Security and

Management (SAM), volume 1. The Steering Committee of
The World Congress in Computer Science, Computer. . . .
Christiano, P. F.; Leike, J.; Brown, T. B.; Martic, M.; Legg,
S.; and Amodei, D. 2017. Deep Reinforcement Learning
from Human Preferences. In Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems 30: Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems 2017, December 4-9, 2017,
Long Beach, CA, USA, 4299–4307.
Dakshit, S. 2024. Faculty Perspectives on the Potential of
RAG in Computer Science Higher Education. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.01462.
De Santis, A.; Balduini, M.; De Santis, F.; Proia, A.; Leo,
A.; Brambilla, M.; and Della Valle, E. 2024.
Integrating
Large Language Models and Knowledge Graphs for Extrac-
tion and Validation of Textual Test Data. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.01700.
Deng, Y.; Lu, D.; Huang, D.; Chung, C.-J.; and Lin, F. 2019.
Knowledge graph based learning guidance for cybersecurity
In Proceedings of the ACM conference on
hands-on labs.
global computing education, 194–200.
Deng, Y.; Zeng, Z.; and Huang, D. 2021. Neocyberkg: En-
hancing cybersecurity laboratories with a machine learning-
enabled knowledge graph. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM
Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Sci-
ence Education V. 1, 310–316.
Deng, Y.; Zeng, Z.; Jha, K.; and Huang, D. 2021. Problem-
based cybersecurity lab with knowledge graph as guidance.
Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Technology.
Dubey, A.; Jauhri, A.; Pandey, A.; and et al. 2024. The
Llama 3 Herd of Models. CoRR, abs/2407.21783.
Elmessiry, A.; and Elmessiry, M. 2024.
NAVI-
GATING THE EVOLUTION OF ARTIFICIAL IN-
TELLIGENCE: TOWARDS EDUCATION-SPECIFIC RE-
TRIEVAL AUGMENTED GENERATIVE AI (ES-RAG-
AI). In INTED2024 Proceedings, 7692–7697. IATED.
ES, S.; James, J.; Anke, L. E.; and Schockaert, S. 2024. RA-
GAs: Automated Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Gen-
eration. In Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the Eu-
ropean Chapter of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics, EACL 2024 - System Demonstrations, St. Julians,
Malta, March 17-22, 2024, 150–158. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Ferrari, E. P.; Wong, A.; and Khmelevsky, Y. 2024. Cyber-
security Education within a Computing Science Program-
In Proceedings of the 26th Western
A Literature Review.
Canadian Conference on Computing Education, 1–5.
George, A. S. 2023. The Potential of Generative AI to Re-
form Graduate Education. Partners Universal International
Research Journal, 2(4): 36–50.
Grover, S.; Broll, B.; and Babb, D. 2023. Cybersecurity edu-
cation in the age of ai: Integrating ai learning into cybersecu-
rity high school curricula. In Proceedings of the 54th ACM
Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education V. 1,
980–986.
Huang, L.; Yu, W.; Ma, W.; Zhong, W.; Feng, Z.; Wang, H.;
Chen, Q.; Peng, W.; Feng, X.; Qin, B.; and Liu, T. 2023. A

Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models: Prin-
ciples, Taxonomy, Challenges, and Open Questions. CoRR,
abs/2311.05232.
Hussien, M. M.; Melo, A. N.; Ballardini, A. L.; Maldonado,
C. S.; Izquierdo, R.; and Sotelo, M. ´A. 2024. RAG-based
Explainable Prediction of Road Users Behaviors for Au-
tomated Driving using Knowledge Graphs and Large Lan-
guage Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.00449.
Izacard, G.; Caron, M.; Hosseini, L.; Riedel, S.; Bojanowski,
P.; Joulin, A.; and Grave, E. 2022. Unsupervised Dense
Information Retrieval with Contrastive Learning. Trans.
Mach. Learn. Res., 2022.
Jeong, S.; Baek, J.; Cho, S.; Hwang, S. J.; and Park, J. C.
2024. Adaptive-rag: Learning to adapt retrieval-augmented
large language models through question complexity. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.14403.
Jordan, M. E. 2015. Variation in students’ propensities for
managing uncertainty. Learning and Individual differences,
38: 99–106.
Kejriwal, M. 2019. Domain-specific knowledge graph con-
struction. Springer.
Kumarage, T.; Agrawal, G.; Sheth, P.; Moraffah, R.; Chadha,
A.; Garland, J.; and Liu, H. 2024. A survey of ai-generated
text forensic systems: Detection, attribution, and characteri-
zation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.01152.
Laato, S.; Farooq, A.; Tenhunen, H.; Pitkamaki, T.; Hakkala,
A.; and Airola, A. 2020. Ai in cybersecurity education-a sys-
tematic literature review of studies on cybersecurity moocs.
In 2020 IEEE 20th International Conference on Advanced
Learning Technologies (ICALT), 6–10. IEEE.
Lewis, P. S. H.; Perez, E.; Piktus, A.; Petroni, F.; Karpukhin,
V.; Goyal, N.; K¨uttler, H.; Lewis, M.; Yih, W.; Rockt¨aschel,
T.; Riedel, S.; and Kiela, D. 2020. Retrieval-Augmented
In Ad-
Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks.
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33: An-
nual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
2020, NeurIPS 2020, December 6-12, 2020, virtual.
Li, Q.; Fu, L.; Zhang, W.; Chen, X.; Yu, J.; Xia, W.; Zhang,
W.; Tang, R.; and Yu, Y. 2023. Adapting large language
models for education: Foundational capabilities, potentials,
and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.08664.
GRAMMAR:
Li, X.; Liu, M.; and Gao, S. 2024.
Grounded and Modular Evaluation of Domain-Specific
arXiv preprint
Retrieval-Augmented Language Models.
arXiv:2404.19232.
Lin, C.-Y. 2004. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation
of summaries. In Text summarization branches out, 74–81.
Liu, C.; Hoang, L.; Stolman, A.; and Wu, B. 2024. HiTA:
A RAG-Based Educational Platform that Centers Educators
In International Conference on
in the Instructional Loop.
Artificial Intelligence in Education, 405–412. Springer.
Means, A. J. 2021. Hypermodernity, automated uncertainty,
and education policy trajectories. Critical Studies in Educa-
tion, 62(3): 371–386.
Modran, H.; Bogdan, I. C.; Ursut,iu, D.; Samoila, C.; and
Modran, P. L. 2024. LLM Intelligent Agent Tutoring in
Higher Education Courses using a RAG Approach.

Moore, S.; Tong, R.; Singh, A.; Liu, Z.; Hu, X.; Lu, Y.;
Liang, J.; Cao, C.; Khosravi, H.; Denny, P.; et al. 2023.
Empowering education with llms-the next-gen interface and
content generation. In International Conference on Artificial
Intelligence in Education, 32–37. Springer.
Newhouse, W.; Keith, S.; Scribner, B.; and Witte, G. 2017.
National initiative for cybersecurity education (NICE) cy-
bersecurity workforce framework. NIST special publication,
800(2017): 181.
Pal, K. K.; Kashihara, K.; Banerjee, P.; Mishra, S.; Wang, R.;
and Baral, C. 2021. Constructing flow graphs from proce-
dural cybersecurity texts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.14357.
Rahman, N. A. A.; Sairi, I. H.; Zizi, N. A. M.; and Khalid, F.
2020. The importance of cybersecurity education in school.
International Journal of Information and Education Tech-
nology, 10(5): 378–382.
Schneider, F. B. 2013. Cybersecurity education in universi-
ties. IEEE Security & Privacy, 11(4): 3–4.
Shivapurkar, M.; Bhatia, S.; and Ahmed, I. 2020. Problem-
In Journal of
based learning for cybersecurity education.
The Colloquium for Information Systems Security Educa-
tion, volume 7, 6–6.
Tan, Z.; Zhao, C.; Moraffah, R.; Li, Y.; Kong, Y.; Chen,
T.; and Liu, H. 2024a. The Wolf Within: Covert Injection
of Malice into MLLM Societies via an MLLM Operative.
CoRR, abs/2402.14859.
Tan, Z.; Zhao, C.; Moraffah, R.; Li, Y.; Wang, S.; Li, J.;
Chen, T.; and Liu, H. 2024b. ”Glue pizza and eat rocks”
- Exploiting Vulnerabilities in Retrieval-Augmented Gener-
ative Models. CoRR, abs/2406.19417.
Upadhyay, A.; Farahmand, E.; Mu˜noz, I.; Akber Khan, M.;
and Witte, N. 2024.
Influence of LLMs on Learning and
Teaching in Higher Education. Available at SSRN 4716855.
Wei-Kocsis, J.; Sabounchi, M.; Mendis, G. J.; Fernando, P.;
Yang, B.; and Zhang, T. 2023. Cybersecurity Education in
the Age of Artificial Intelligence: A Novel Proactive and
IEEE Transactions on
Collaborative Learning Paradigm.
Education.
Xu, Z.; Jain, S.; and Kankanhalli, M. S. 2024. Hallucina-
tion is Inevitable: An Innate Limitation of Large Language
Models. CoRR, abs/2401.11817.
Yan, L.; Sha, L.; Zhao, L.; Li, Y.; Martinez-Maldonado, R.;
Chen, G.; Li, X.; Jin, Y.; and Gaˇsevi´c, D. 2024. Practical and
ethical challenges of large language models in education: A
systematic scoping review. British Journal of Educational
Technology, 55(1): 90–112.
Zhang, T.; Kishore, V.; Wu, F.; Weinberger, K. Q.; and Artzi,
Y. 2020. BERTScore: Evaluating Text Generation with
BERT. In 8th International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations, ICLR 2020, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, April 26-30,
2020. OpenReview.net.
Zhang, Y.; Li, Y.; Cui, L.; Cai, D.; Liu, L.; Fu, T.; Huang, X.;
Zhao, E.; Zhang, Y.; Chen, Y.; Wang, L.; Luu, A. T.; Bi, W.;
Shi, F.; and Shi, S. 2023. Siren’s Song in the AI Ocean: A
Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models. CoRR,
abs/2309.01219.