5
2
0
2

r
p
A
8
2

]
E
S
.
s
c
[

2
v
2
3
8
6
0
.
2
1
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

SLA Management in Reconfigurable Multi-Agent RAG: A Systems
Approach to Question Answering

Michael Iannelli
Yext, Inc.
New York, New York, USA
miannelli@yext.com

Sneha Kuchipudi
Yext, Inc.
New York, New York, USA
skuchipudi@yext.com

Vera Dvorak
Yext, Inc.
New York, New York, USA
vdvorakova@yext.com

Abstract
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) enables Large Language
Models (LLMs) to generalize to new information by decoupling
reasoning capabilities from static knowledge bases. Traditional RAG
enhancements have explored vertical scaling—assigning subtasks
to specialized modules—and horizontal scaling—replicating tasks
across multiple agents—to improve performance. However, real-
world applications impose diverse Service Level Agreements (SLAs)
and Quality of Service (QoS) requirements, involving trade-offs
among objectives such as reducing cost, ensuring answer quality,
and adhering to specific operational constraints.

In this work, we present a systems-oriented approach to multi-
agent RAG tailored for real-world Question Answering (QA) appli-
cations. By integrating task-specific non-functional requirements
— such as answer quality, cost, and latency — into the system, we
enable dynamic reconfiguration to meet diverse SLAs. Our method
maps these Service Level Objectives (SLOs) to system-level param-
eters, allowing the generation of optimal results within specified
resource constraints.

We conduct a case study in the QA domain, demonstrating how
dynamic re-orchestration of a multi-agent RAG system can effec-
tively manage the trade-off between answer quality and cost. By
adjusting the system based on query intent and operational con-
ditions, we systematically balance performance and resource uti-
lization. This approach allows the system to meet SLOs for various
query types, showcasing its practicality for real-world applications.

CCS Concepts
• Information systems → Information retrieval; • Applied
computing → Service-oriented architectures; • Computing
methodologies → Distributed artificial intelligence.

Keywords
Retrieval Augmented Generation, Multi-Agent Systems, Service
Level Agreement

1 Introduction
Question Answering (QA) has been a pivotal area of research since
the 1960s, aiming to provide precise answers to natural language
questions. Unlike traditional search engines that return a list of
hyperlinks to relevant pages, QA systems deliver direct answers to
user queries [30].

The advent of generative Large Language Models (LLMs) has
led search engines to integrate abstractive QA into their offer-
ings—systems that generate answers which may not exist verbatim
in source documents [4]. Additionally, new platforms specializing

in abstractive QA, such as Perplexity [20] and ChatGPT Search [19],
have emerged.

However, LLM-based abstractive QA exhibits notable limitations,
including a lack of generalization to unseen data and a propensity
for hallucination, i.e. the generation of false assertions [10]. Re-
trieval Augmented Generation (RAG) [8] addresses these shortcom-
ings by combining LLMs with external knowledge sources, enabling
the LLM to function as a reasoning layer rather than a static repos-
itory of facts. RAG retrieves context from external sources such
as search engines, traditional databases, vector databases [11], or
knowledge graphs [17, 28], and utilizes the LLM for reasoning and
response generation.

Enhancements to RAG-based QA have primarily focused on de-
composing the task into smaller subtasks and distributing respon-
sibilities among specialized components. While these techniques
have improved answer quality, they often introduce additional costs
in terms of computation or increased response times.

Real-world QA systems must navigate trade-offs between an-
swer quality and the costs associated with providing those answers.
Moreover, they must be dynamically reconfigurable to handle di-
verse Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and Quality of Service (QoS)
requirements arising from various query intents and problem do-
mains. For instance:

• E-commerce Search: Highly sensitive to response times,
where delays can significantly impact user experience and
sales conversions [1, 25].

• Customer Support: Requires not just correct answers but
stylistically compliant ones that adhere to the brand-voice
guidelines of the domain or company [18].

• Legal and Healthcare Queries: Demand high answer
quality due to the critical nature of the information, with
less emphasis on cost or latency constraints [22].

Furthermore, because modern cloud providers (e.g., SaaS and
PaaS platforms) host these varied workloads side by side on shared
infrastructure, the system’s overall utility is increased: by optimally
provisioning and multiplexing resources across collocated services
with diverse SLA requirements, we achieve higher utilization and
more efficient service delivery.

In addition to these domain-specific requirements, real-world
RAG systems operate under constantly changing and sometimes
adverse conditions. Factors such as network congestion, computa-
tional capacity constraints, and security concerns necessitate adap-
tive strategies. For example, during periods of high network traffic,
minimizing external API calls and leveraging local LLM instances
can help maintain answer quality while adhering to operational
constraints.

 
 
 
 
 
 
By incorporating knowledge about the task domain, QoS re-
quirements, and the operational environment, we can quantify and
manage the trade-offs between cost, answer quality, and other non-
functional requirements. This enables the design of QA systems
that are both efficient and effective across a range of real-world
scenarios.

1.1 Our Contributions
We present a novel system-theoretic framework for SLA manage-
ment in reconfigurable multi-agent RAG systems, specifically tai-
lored for question-answering applications. Our main contributions
are as follows:

• Dynamically Reconfigurable Horizontal Scaling Frame-
work: We propose a method for horizontally scaling multi-
agent RAG systems by replicating agents with diverse con-
figurations. This approach systematically improves per-
formance by enabling the system to dynamically adjust
resource allocation based on the specific requirements of
each query.

• Implementation and Experimental Validation: We de-
tail the architecture and implementation of our Abstrac-
tive Question Answering Intent Handler. Additionally, we
present experimental results that demonstrate the effective-
ness of our approach, including comparisons of strategies
employed by different agent architectures.

• Novel Metrics and Dataset Creation: We introduce novel
metrics and a dataset creation process to address stylistic ad-
herence requirements, which are critical for many industry
users.

By addressing the challenges of SLA management in multi-agent
RAG systems, our work contributes to the development of QA
systems that are adaptable, efficient, and capable of delivering high-
quality answers under diverse operational conditions.

1.2 Related Work
Scaling Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems has been
an active area of research, with most approaches focusing on verti-
cal scaling—decomposing tasks into subtasks assigned to specialized
components. Recent studies incorporate Large Language Models
(LLMs) at the planning stages to mitigate issues like irrelevant
retrieval and focus drift. For instance, PlanRAG uses an LLM to gen-
erate retrieval plans, enhancing context relevance [12]. Similarly,
Retrieve-Plan-Generate (RPG) separates planning and answering
stages to improve long-form question answering [14]. AutoGPT+P
introduces planning loops for step-by-step plan generation in dy-
namic environments [2].

Horizontal scaling through multi-agent systems has also been
explored, where multiple agents are synchronously assigned to the
same question. LLM-Debate employs multiple LLM agents debating
to reach better answers [5]. Chain-of-Thought Self-Consistency
(CoT-SC) generates multiple reasoning paths and selects the most
consistent answer [27]. Li et al. demonstrate that increasing the
number of agents with simple voting improves performance [13].
Temporal scaling techniques involve sequential interactions with
LLMs to enhance question-answering performance on complex
queries. Shao et al. use iterative querying to refine answers for

Iannelli et al.

complex information needs [23]. Query refinement methods, such
as RQ-RAG involve rewriting, decomposing, and disambiguating
complex queries have also been shown to improve answer quality
[3].

While these aforementioned methods enhance answer quality,
they often overlook dynamic adaptation to operational constraints
critical in real-world applications with strict Service Level Agree-
ments (SLAs).

Gao et al. introduce a modular RAG framework that encompasses
horizontal, vertical, and temporal scaling techniques [9]. Zhang et
al. propose an agentic information retrieval framework capable of
handling complex queries by introducing IR agents with greater
levels of autonomy [29]. However, these works lack experimental
results on adapting systems to real-world environments.

Arbitration mechanisms have been proposed to improve decision-
making in multi-agent systems. Some studies suggest using multiple
LLMs to select the best response [26]. These methods improve an-
swer quality but may not address trade-offs such as cost, latency,
and security.

Evaluation frameworks like RAGAS assess RAG performance but
may omit industry-relevant metrics such as adherence to stylistic
constraints [6]. In practical applications, an answer must be not
only correct but also stylistically appropriate.

Our work differs by focusing on the dynamic reconfiguration of
multi-agent RAG systems to meet diverse SLAs in real-world set-
tings. We integrate task-specific non-functional requirements into
system parameters, addressing trade-offs between answer quality,
cost, latency, and adherence to stylistic guidelines. This practical
framework aims to deploy question-answering systems in industrial
contexts with stringent SLA demands.

2 SLA Composition in Multi-Agent QA Systems
We adopt a compositional perspective on Service Level Agree-
ments (SLAs), decomposing a complex SLA into multiple interacting
Quality-of-Service (QoS) attributes—such as response latency, fac-
tual accuracy, stylistic adherence, and cost—and then combining
them into an overall service commitment. Under this framework,
the composite SLA for a QA system is defined as

SLAcomposite = 𝑓 (𝑞1, 𝑞2, . . . , 𝑞𝑘 ),

where each 𝑞𝑖 denotes a QoS attribute (e.g., latency, answer
quality, stylistic compliance) and the function 𝑓 captures how these
attributes interact.

In our reconfigurable multi-agent RAG architecture, every mod-
ule—from Intent Detection and Planning to individual QA agents
and the Arbitration component—contributes toward one or more
of these QoS attributes. For example, the Planning Module dynami-
cally allocates both the number and configuration of RAG agents
based on the incoming query’s requirements and current opera-
tional conditions; this allocation explicitly considers the relevant
SLA sub-attributes to ensure the final answer meets its targets for
speed, accuracy, and style.

A continuous monitoring subsystem then audits each module’s
compliance with its assigned sub-SLAs in real time. Whenever a de-
viation from the target QoS levels is detected—whether in response

SLA Management in Reconfigurable Multi-Agent RAG

time, factual correctness, or stylistic conformity—adaptive recon-
figuration is triggered. Such adjustments might include tuning the
arbitration thresholds, shifting workload between cloud and local
LLM instances, or reallocating compute resources. This feedback
loop ensures that the composite SLA is upheld by continuously
reconciling the performance of individual components.

By embedding this compositional SLA framework into our multi-
agent QA system, we achieve a systematic balance among answer
quality, latency, and cost—yielding a robust, adaptable service that
satisfies diverse and stringent SLA requirements in real-world de-
ployments.

3 Architecture
Our Question Answering System is designed to dynamically recon-
figure its components to meet Service Level Agreements (SLAs).
The system consists of three primary modules: an Intent Detec-
tion Module, a Planning Module, and multiple Intent Handlers. A
high-level overview of the architecture is shown in Figure 1.

3.1 System Inputs and Outputs
3.1.1 User Query. : The system accepts arbitrary input queries
from users, such as: “How do I reset my phone?", “How to reset
phone", or “Burger joints near me".

These queries vary significantly in intent and complexity, neces-
sitating a robust mechanism for accurate intent recognition and
appropriate handling.

Figure 1: A bird’s eye view of the architecture of the Abstrac-
tiveQA System

3.1.2 Task SLA/QoS Parameters. : Specific requirements such as:

• Required precision and recall for the task
• Maximum acceptable hallucination rate and incongruent
response rate (to ensure adherence to stylistic constraints)
• Budget and Latency constraints for different intent types

3.1.3 Operational Environment. Current conditions affecting the
system, such as:

• Availability of network resources
• Status of external APIs and services
• Available models and data sources

3.2 Intent Detection Module
The Intent Detection Module processes the user query to classify
it into predefined intent categories, focusing on determining the
what of the input query1, i.e., what kind of query it is:

• Directly Answerable Question: Queries seeking specific

information that can be directly addressed.

• Request for Summarization: Queries asking to condense

or summarize information from a source.

• Non-Question Statements: Inputs that are not interroga-

tive but may require action.

• Request for a List: Queries seeking a collection of items

(e.g., nearby restaurants serving hamburgers).

• Sales Inquiry: Queries related to purchasing or product

information.

Implementation Options. Implementation options for this
3.2.1
module include various techniques, each with trade-offs in terms
of computational cost, extensibility, and accuracy2:

• Heuristic Methods: Rule-based systems using predefined
patterns and keywords for quick intent classification. While
low in computational overhead, they may lack flexibility
and scalability.

• Machine Learning Classifiers: Lightweight models trained
on labeled datasets to predict intents, offering a balance
between performance and resource utilization.

• Generative Large Language Models (LLMs): Zero-shot
or few-shot classifiers leveraging pre-trained LLMs to un-
derstand and classify intents without extensive domain-
specific training data. Although highly extensible and ac-
curate, they incur higher computational costs.

3.3 Planning Module
The Planning Module dynamically configures the resources of the
Intent Handlers to meet the system’s SLA requirements for each
specific intent in the current environment. Its core functions in-
clude:

• Resource Allocation: Determining the optimal number of
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) agents to deploy,
balancing response quality against computational cost.
• Backend Data Source Selection: Choosing appropriate data

repositories (e.g., cached datasets, real-time databases, knowl-
edge graphs) based on required information freshness and
relevance.

• Arbitration Mechanism Configuration: Selecting and pa-
rameterizing arbitration algorithms to aggregate and eval-
uate responses from multiple agents effectively.

For example, to service a query requiring high answer quality,

the Planning Module may:

• Increase Agent Replication: Deploy more RAG agents to

generate diverse candidate answers.

• Employ Appropriate Data Sources: Access multiple data
repositories to enrich the context and determine which

3.1.4 Results. : The QA system’s outputs are Intent-Dependent
Answers which consist of diverse responses tailored to the user’s
intent and complying with specified SLAs.

1The what refers to the type or kind of query being made, as opposed to the why,
which pertains to the motivation behind the user’s question.
2In this context, accuracy is used in a qualitative sense to measure the quality of
outcomes, rather than the quantitative definition commonly used in machine learning.

agents should have access to which sources e.g. an agent
using a third-party LLM would not get access to sensitive
documents.

• Select what threshold to use in a voting-based arbitration
mechanism e.g. only return an answer when 70% of the
agents think it should be answered.

By adjusting these configurations in real-time, the Planning
Module ensures compliance with SLA parameters, optimizing the
system’s performance in terms of answer quality and resource
utilization.

Figure 2: Possible Instantiation of Abstractive Question An-
swer Intent Handler

3.4 Intent Handlers
The Intent Handler is a reconfigurable module that executes the
necessary processes to address the user’s query based on the clas-
sified intent. By dynamically adjusting its internal workflows and
resource utilization in response to directives from the Planning
Module, the Intent Handler can:

• Manage Computational Costs: Allocate resources judi-
ciously to stay within budgetary constraints without sig-
nificantly compromising answer quality.

• Enhance Answer Quality: Allocate additional resources,
such as more RAG agents or advanced arbitration mecha-
nisms, for queries where accuracy is paramount.

• Ensure Compliance with Non-Functional Require-
ments: Adjust processing to adhere to stylistic guidelines,
security policies, and other non-functional requirements
specified in the SLAs.

To achieve these objectives, the Intent Handler orchestrates a

network of logical entities and services, which may include:

Iannelli et al.

– Ranking Models: Machine learning models trained to
rank candidate responses based on relevance, accuracy,
and other quality metrics.

• Ensemble Techniques: Combining outputs from multiple

agents to produce a more robust final answer.

• Response Synthesis: Constructing the final response, en-
suring coherence and adherence to stylistic guidelines.

A diagram showing a potential instantiation of a multi-agent

Abstractive QA Intent Handler is presented in Figure 2.

4 Benchmark Dataset Creation and Metrics
4.1 Dataset Creation
We sampled approximately 5,000 actual user queries spanning over
200 different businesses across various industries (e.g. retail, finance,
etc.) Each query was classified into one of two intent categories:
Directly Answerable Questions or All Other Intents.

In this context, a query is considered directly answerable if it
can be addressed succinctly (e.g., with a yes/no or factual response),
such as inquiries about a product, service, or specific company
information. Non-directly answerable queries include broad topics,
technical issues, or those better answered with a list or document
link.

Each query was annotated by two independent annotators, fol-
lowed by a conflict resolution process when necessary. The resulting
dataset served two purposes:

• Evaluation of the Intent Classifier (which is outside the

scope of this research).

• Creation of an annotated dataset for queries and answers.

We found that directly answerable queries constituted approxi-
mately 12% of the original dataset, totaling around 600 queries. Each
of these queries was input into five separately configured RAG-QA
Agents, resulting in approximately 3,000 (query, context, answer)
triples. Each triple was annotated by two independent annotators,
with a conflict resolution step to ensure consistency.

Each result was assigned three attributes reflecting: (i) the avail-
ability of an answer in context, (ii) the provision of an answer,
and (iii) the quality of the answer. Detailed definitions for these
attributes are provided in Table 1.

4.2 Metrics
4.2.1 Answer Quality Metrics. We evaluated the performance of
the agents using the following metrics:

• Precision: The number of correct answers divided by the

• Backend Data Access Interfaces: APIs and connectors

total number of answers provided.

to interact with various data sources.

• RAG Agents: Multiple instances of Retrieval Augmented
Generation agents, each potentially configured with differ-
ent retrieval strategies, preprocessing pipelines, and LLMs
to generate diverse candidate responses.

• Arbitration Algorithms: Mechanisms to evaluate and
select the optimal response from the candidate answers.
This may involve:

– Voting Systems: Methods like majority voting or
weighted voting based on agent confidence scores.

• Recall: The number of correct answers divided by the num-
ber of times the answer exists in the global context (i.e., the
union of all contexts from all agents).3

3The use of the global context to compute precision and recall introduces limitations
to our dataset, as the exact upper bound on the number of answers in any context
is unknown and could not be determined within our time constraints. However, we
found that the difference in the number of answers sourced from the global context
between the four-agent and five-agent systems was minimal (one to two instances,
depending on configuration). This suggests that the overall impact is likely negligible
with the retrieval mechanisms used.

SLA Management in Reconfigurable Multi-Agent RAG

Category

Context
Availability

Answer Provision

Answer Quality

Option

Description

Answer Exists in
Context
Answer Does Not Exist
in Context

Answer Provided
No Answer Provided

Correct Answer

Hallucination
Incongruent Response

At least one agent’s retrieval process returned a result from which a correct direct
answer could be derived.
None of the agents’ retrieval processes returned a result from which a correct direct
answer could be derived.

An answer was returned (regardless of its correctness).
A negative, or null, answer was returned.

The returned answer was correct and aligned with the task’s non-functional re-
quirements (e.g., adhered to the specified style in the prompt).
The returned answer was not grounded in the provided context.
The returned answer did not adhere to the task’s non-functional requirements.

Table 1: Summary of Answer Annotation Attributes

• F1 Score: The harmonic mean of precision and recall:

𝐹1 = 2 ·

Precision · Recall
Precision + Recall

• Hallucination Rate: The number of hallucinations divided
by the total number of answers provided, where a halluci-
nation is any answer not grounded in the context.4

• Incongruent Response Rate: The number of incongruent

responses divided by the total number of responses.

Precision, Recall, and F1: In traditional information retrieval, pre-
cision is defined as the proportion of retrieved documents that are
relevant, and recall as the proportion of relevant documents that
are retrieved [16]. In our question answering domain, we adapted
these definitions to suit our specific context.

Incongruent Responses: For many users of this system, particu-
larly brands, it is insufficient to simply return a correct answer; the
answer must also adhere to the non-functional and stylistic require-
ments specified in the prompt. This includes guidelines such as not
breaking the fourth wall or referencing the context directly. Ensur-
ing compliance with these requirements is essential for maintaining
brand voice and user experience.

System Cost. Our model incorporates a fixed overhead cost
4.2.2
per question, the cumulative cost of the diverse QA agents deployed
for the intent, and the associated arbitration cost. Mathematically,
this is expressed as:

𝐶sys = 𝐶overhead +

𝑁intent∑︁
𝑖=1

Where:

𝐶agent,𝑖 + 𝐶arbitration (𝑁intent)

• 𝐶sys: Total system cost of answering one question.
• 𝐶overhead: Fixed system overhead cost per question.
• 𝐶agent,𝑖 : Cost of the 𝑖-th QA agent.
• 𝑁intent: Number of QA agents deployed for the intent.
• 𝐶arbitration (𝑁intent): Arbitration cost for the 𝑁intent agents.
4The Hallucination Rate is analogous to the False Positive Rate, with the key difference
being that false positives in this context include answers not grounded in the provided
context (extrinsic hallucinations), contradicted by the provided context (intrinsic
hallucinations), or incongruent responses. Further details on categories of hallucination
can be found in [10].

System Latency. The system latency for our implementation
4.2.3
is defined as the sum of the fixed overhead latency, the maximum
latency among the QA agents configured for a given intent (since
agent operations are asynchronous and parallel), and the arbitration
latency for those agents. Mathematically, this is expressed as:

𝐿sys = 𝐿overhead + max

1≤𝑖 ≤𝑁intent

𝐿QA,𝑖 + 𝐿arbitration (𝑁intent)

Where:

• 𝐿sys: Total system latency.
• 𝐿overhead: Fixed overhead latency.
• 𝐿QA,𝑖 : Latency of the 𝑖-th QA agent.
• max1≤𝑖 ≤𝑁intent
QA agents.

𝐿QA,𝑖 : Maximum latency among all 𝑁intent

• 𝐿arbitration (𝑁intent): Arbitration latency for the 𝑁intent agents.

5 Agent Implementation
In this section, we describe the experiments conducted to evaluate
our reconfigurable multi-agent RAG system for question answering.
We detail the agent architecture, single-agent experiments, and the
arbitration algorithm, including its implementation and ablation
studies.

Figure 3: The RAG QA Agent Architecture we use in our
experiments

5.1 Agent Architecture
The architecture of an individual QA agent used in our experiments,
shown in Figure 3, is designed to be flexible and configurable based

on the output of the Planning Module. The specific parameteriza-
tion of each agent depends on factors such as which backend data
sources are provisioned and caching strategies. While the imple-
mentation details of the Planning Module are outside the scope of
this research, we provide an overview of the QA agent’s architecture
and workflow.

window limitation of 8,000 tokens, we needed to prune the retrieved
context appropriately. We developed several pruning methods aim-
ing to balance content relevance with the token limit. For each
agent, we measured Answer Quality using the metrics described in
Section 4.2.1.

Iannelli et al.

• Query Input: The user query is input into the Retrieval
Module. Only queries classified as directly answerable are
processed by the QA agent.

• Retrieval Module: Accesses backend data sources using the
input query. Utilizes a federated search approach, querying
multiple backend data sources asynchronously. Supports
vertical search5 by returning data categorized by entity
type, configured based on domain requirements. Verticals
are ranked in order of relevance.

• Post-Retrieval Preprocessing: A preprocessing module pre-
pares the context documents for input into the Reasoning
Module. Prunes and organizes retrieved documents to com-
ply with the LLM’s context window size limitations.

• Reasoning Module: Powered by GPT-4 [7]. Generates an-
swers based on the user query and preprocessed context.
Details of the prompt used are discussed in Section 5.3.

5.2 Retrieval Module Details
The Retrieval Module, shown in Figure 4, pulls data from various
backend sources, including vector databases, lexical search engines,
and graph data stores, depending on the domain. For vector search,
we employ the following components:

• Embedding Model: Documents are embedded using a trans-
former model based on MPNet [24]. Embeddings capture
semantic information for effective similarity comparisons.
• Vector Database: Indexed using Hierarchical Navigable
Small World (HNSW) graphs [15] for efficient approximate
nearest neighbor search. At query time, the same embed-
ding model is used to encode the user query. The resulting
query vector q is used to retrieve documents whose vectors
d are similar, based on cosine similarity:

𝑠𝑖𝑚𝑖𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑦 (q, d) =

q · d
∥q∥ ∥d∥

Documents with higher cosine similarity scores are consid-
ered more relevant to the query.

5.3 Prompt Engineering
After re-ranking and/or thresholding, we construct the prompt
for the LLM. The preprocessed list of context documents and the
original user query are interpolated into the prompt at appropriate
places. An example prompt is shown in Figure 5.

6 Experiments
We conducted experiments on individual QA agents by varying the
post-retrieval preprocessing logic used to prepare the input prompts
for the GPT-4-powered Reasoning Module. Given the LLM’s context

Prompt Example

Context : { context_entities }.

Use only the provided context to answer the
question : `{ query } ' to the best of your
ability and in a few sentences or less .

If there is more than one answer , summarize

the options . Provide the `uid ' values of the
object you used to inform the answer ( do NOT
use the `id ' value ). Return the answer in a
json dictionary format

[ Example :
{

`answer ': ` This is the answer ',
` uid_list ': [12345 , 98342]

}]

Do not refer to the context in your answer .

Figure 5: An example of the constructed prompt used by the
QA Agent’s Reasoning Module.

For the multi-agent experiments, we implemented an arbitra-
tion algorithm based on majority voting and relevance ranking.
We varied the size of the agent ensemble dedicated to servicing
the QA queries by adjusting the number of QA agents—each em-
ploying diverse post-retrieval preprocessing strategies—included
in the ensemble. The final answer was selected based on the ar-
bitration algorithm. Similar to the single-agent experiments, we
measured Answer Quality and evaluated the system cost relative
to the number of agents in the ensemble.6

6.1 Preprocessing Methods
We implemented two main types of preprocessing logic:

• Thresholding:

– Thresholding (Control): A naive truncation strategy
where the first 8,000 tokens from the search results are
taken.

– Vertical Thresholding: Selects top tokens from the top
two verticals (until the prompt reaches 8,000 tokens).
– Aggressive Thresholding: Takes the first 6,000 tokens
from the search response, allowing more space for the
reasoning process.

5Vertical search refers to specialized searches within predefined categories or domains.
For instance, a healthcare-related query for cardiology may return results segmented
into verticals such as cardiologists and hospitals specializing in cardiology.

6A notable limitation of these experiments was the inability to accurately measure
system latency due to non-stationary external conditions, such as API rate limiting.
Future work will involve simulating realistic conditions to accurately measure latency.

SLA Management in Reconfigurable Multi-Agent RAG

Figure 4: Architecture of the Vector Search Process we use in our experiments

• Re-ranking: Utilized a cross-encoder model based on ‘ms-
marco-MiniLM-L-12-v2’ from the Sentence Transformers
library [21]. The cross-encoder accepts the query and doc-
ument as input and returns a relevance score between 0
and 1. Documents are re-ranked based on relevance scores
before thresholding.7

answer at random from the set of affirmative responses. Next, we
evaluated the effect of the threshold mechanism by randomly choos-
ing a response from the affirmative set after threshold evaluation.
Finally, we applied the cross-encoder-based arbitration function 𝐴
over the complete set of candidate responses to assess its overall
impact on the final output.

6.2 Arbitration
In our multi-agent RAG system, we employ an arbitration algorithm
to select the optimal response from a set of candidate answers
generated by various QA agents. The arbitration process is governed
by a decision threshold 𝑇 ∈ (0, 1) and an arbitration function 𝐴
that maps a set of results to a single final answer. The algorithm is
defined in Algorithm 1

For our experiments, the arbitration function 𝐴 was implemented
using a cross-encoder model, consistent with the post-retrieval
preprocessing methods described earlier. The cross-encoder jointly
encodes each candidate answer with the original query to compute
a relevance score. It effectively re-ranks the affirmative responses
based on their contextual relevance and quality, selecting the top-
ranked answer as the final output.

6.3 Algorithm Ablations
To isolate the contributions of each component in our arbitration
algorithm, we conducted a series of ablation experiments. First, we
bypassed the arbitration function entirely by selecting a candidate

7Note: The raw entity JSON is not used directly as input. Search configurations define
an LLM-friendly view of the entity, specifying which fields should be included. The
design of this view generation model is outside the scope of this work.

7 Results
In this section, we present the results of our experiments, focus-
ing on both single-agent ablations and multi-agent configurations.
Our goal is to evaluate how different preprocessing strategies and
arbitration mechanisms affect the performance of the QA system,
particularly in terms of precision, recall, hallucination rate, and
incongruent response rate.

7.1 Single-Agent Experiments
The results of the single-agent experiments are summarized in
the upper section of Table 2. These results encompass the three
preprocessing strategies discussed in the Single Agent Experiments
section

Key Findings

• Aggressive Thresholding emerged as the best-performing
strategy, achieving the highest precision and recall, as well
as the lowest incongruent response rate.

• Vertical Thresholding performed comparably to aggressive
thresholding, indicating that focusing on top-ranked verti-
cals effectively preserves relevant context.

• Agents utilizing Re-ranking with Cross-Encoder exhibited
lower precision and recall. The cross-encoder tended to

Algorithm 1: Candidate Response Collection and Arbitra-
tion
Input: Set of candidate responses 𝐶 = {𝑐1, 𝑐2, . . . , 𝑐𝑛 };

threshold 𝑇

Output: Final answer or a negative result

Step 1: Candidate Response Collection
Let 𝐶 be the set of candidate responses from 𝑁 QA agents.

Step 2: Affirmative Response Identification
Define 𝐶affirmative ⊆ 𝐶 as the subset of responses that
include an attempted answer (i.e., non-null and substantive
responses).

Step 3: Threshold Evaluation
Compute the minimum number of affirmative responses
required:

𝑘 = ⌊𝑇 × |𝐶 |⌋

if |𝐶affirmative| ≥ 𝑘 then

Proceed to arbitration.

else

Return a negative result indicating that no answer will
be provided.

return Negative Result

Step 4: Arbitration Function Application
Apply the arbitration function 𝐴 to 𝐶affirmative:

Final Answer = 𝐴(𝐶affirmative)

return Final Answer

eliminate important context documents, leading to reduced
precision despite a lower hallucination rate.

7.2 Multi-Agent Experiments
The multi-agent experiments were designed to evaluate the impact
of ensemble configurations on system performance. We varied
the number of agents in the ensemble and observed the effects
of different arbitration mechanisms, all of which used a threshold
𝑇 = 0.5, requiring at least half of the agents to provide an affirmative
answer for a response to be returned. The results can be found in
the bottom section of Table 2. Detailed charts are shown in Figures
6 - 10.

Key Findings

• Increasing the number of agents consistently improved per-
formance, enhancing precision and recall while reducing
the hallucination and incongruent response rates. This high-
lights the benefit of aggregating responses across agents.
• Balancing performance improvements with computational
costs is crucial. Larger ensembles offer better performance
metrics but come at the expense of increased resource usage
and latency.

Iannelli et al.

Figure 6: Recall vs. Ensemble Size

Figure 7: Precision vs. Ensemble Size

Figure 8: F1 vs. Ensemble Size

• Simple voting mechanisms often performed on par with
relevance-based arbitration. While the latter showed pre-
dictable improvements with more agents, the additional
gains were minimal compared to the increased computa-
tional overhead.

8 Discussion and Future Directions
In this work, we introduce a dynamically reconfigurable multi-
agent RAG system and present experimental results that highlight
its ability to navigate multiple SLA dimensions—balancing answer

SLA Management in Reconfigurable Multi-Agent RAG

Table 2: Experimental Results for Single and Multi-Agent Experiments

Experiment Version

Recall Precision

F1

Hallucination Rate

Incongruent Response Rate

Thresholding (control)
Rerank with thresholding
Rerank with vertical thresholding
Aggressive Thresholding
Vertical Thresholding
vote_with_thresh, N=3
vote_with_thresh, N=5
vote_most_relevant, N=3
vote_most_relevant, N=5
vote_most_relevant_with_thresh, N=3
vote_most_relevant_with_thresh, N=5

0.640
0.529
0.571
0.656
0.656

0.655
0.684
0.666
0.684
0.652
0.684

0.656
0.652
0.619
0.670
0.654

0.672
0.691
0.674
0.681
0.672
0.691

0.648
0.584
0.594
0.663
0.655

0.663
0.688
0.670
0.683
0.661
0.688

0.239
0.187
0.249
0.235
0.249

0.230
0.220
0.229
0.229
0.228
0.220

0.015
0.027
0.017
0.008
0.013

0.011
0.012
0.014
0.013
0.013
0.012

Figure 9: Hallucination Rate vs. Ensemble Size

make the case for a system that can adapt in real time to diverse
SLA requirements.

Looking ahead, several promising research directions are appar-
ent. Exploring alternative arbitration mechanisms—such as weighted
voting or additional machine learning-based approaches—may help
optimize overall system performance, even if improvements in one
dimension might be offset by challenges in another. Incorporat-
ing additional explicit QoS parameters—particularly latency and
computational constraints—into our experiments would enable a
more nuanced approach to SLA management. Coupling this with
simulations of real-world conditions, such as network congestion
and variable computational resources, and optimizing threshold
parameters will be critical for comprehensively understanding their
impact on latency and other performance dimensions. We would
also like to explore enhancements to our planning modules that en-
able temporal replication and dynamic strategy adjustments, which
could further improve the system’s overall adaptability.

Overall, our work demonstrates that a systems-oriented ap-
proach to SLA management in reconfigurable multi-agent RAG
systems is not only feasible but also essential for deploying QA
solutions that meet the multifaceted demands of real-world appli-
cations.

References
[1] Neel Achary. 2023.

The Hidden Impact of Latency on E-commerce:
https:

How Slow Load Times Affect Checkout Payment Experience.
//businessnewsthisweek.com/business/the-hidden-impact-of-latency-on-
e-commerce-how-slow-load-times-affect-checkout-payment-experience/
Accessed: 2024-11-25.

Figure 10: Incongruent Response Rate vs. Ensemble Size

quality and resource efficiency. Our results show that aggressive
thresholding at the retrieval stage, by focusing on the most perti-
nent context, enables the system to generate more responses with
improved precision. However, conventional re-ranking methods,
while effective at prioritizing relevant documents, can sometimes
filter out essential context and thereby impact the overall perfor-
mance balance. Similarly, scaling the number of agents tends to
boost metrics like precision and recall, but this comes with in-
creased resource consumption. These interdependent trade-offs

[2] Timo Birr, Christoph Pohl, Abdelrahman Younes, and Tamim Asfour. 2024. Au-
toGPT+P: Affordance-based Task Planning using Large Language Models. In
Robotics: Science and Systems XX (RSS2024). Robotics: Science and Systems Foun-
dation. doi:10.15607/rss.2024.xx.112

[3] Chi-Min Chan, Chunpu Xu, Ruibin Yuan, Hongyin Luo, Wei Xue, Yike Guo,
and Jie Fu. 2024. RQ-RAG: Learning to Refine Queries for Retrieval Augmented
Generation. In First Conference on Language Modeling. https://openreview.net/
forum?id=tzE7VqsaJ4

[4] Danny D’Cruze. 2024. After Google, Microsoft Unveils AI-Powered Bing
Search Features: See How It Works. https://www.businesstoday.in/technology/
news/story/after-google\protect\penalty\z@-microsoft\protect\penalty\z@-
unveils\protect\penalty\z@-ai-powered\protect\penalty\z@-bing-search-
features-see-how-it-works-438665-2024-07-25. Accessed: 2024-11-25.

[5] Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Igor Mor-
datch. 2023. Improving Factuality and Reasoning in Language Models through
Multiagent Debate. arXiv:2305.14325 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14325

Iannelli et al.

[29] Weinan Zhang, Junwei Liao, Ning Li, and Kounianhua Du. 2024. Agentic Infor-
mation Retrieval. arXiv:2410.09713 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09713
[30] Fengbin Zhu, Wenqiang Lei, Chao Wang, Jianming Zheng, Soujanya Poria, and
Tat-Seng Chua. 2021. Retrieving and Reading: A Comprehensive Survey on Open-
domain Question Answering. CoRR abs/2101.00774 (2021). arXiv:2101.00774
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.00774

[6] Shahul Es,

Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, and Steven Schockaert.
2023. RAGAS: Automated Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation.
arXiv:2309.15217 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15217

[7] OpenAI et al. 2024. GPT-4 Technical Report. arXiv:2303.08774 [cs.CL] https:

//arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774

[8] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi
Dai, Jiawei Sun, Meng Wang, and Haofen Wang. 2024. Retrieval-Augmented
Generation for Large Language Models: A Survey. arXiv:2312.10997 [cs.CL]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10997

[9] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Meng Wang, and Haofen Wang. 2024. Modular
RAG: Transforming RAG Systems into LEGO-like Reconfigurable Frameworks.
arXiv:2407.21059 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21059

[10] Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii,
Ye Jin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. 2023. Survey of Hallucination
in Natural Language Generation. ACM Comput. Surv. 55, 12, Article 248 (March
2023), 38 pages. doi:10.1145/3571730

[11] Zhi Jing, Yongye Su, and Yikun Han. 2024. When Large Language Models Meet
Vector Databases: A Survey. arXiv:2402.01763 [cs.DB] https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.
01763

[13]

[12] Myeonghwa Lee, Seonho An, and Min-Soo Kim. 2024. PlanRAG: A Plan-then-
Retrieval Augmented Generation for Generative Large Language Models as
Decision Makers. arXiv:2406.12430 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12430
Junyou Li, Qin Zhang, Yangbin Yu, Qiang Fu, and Deheng Ye. 2024. More Agents
Is All You Need. arXiv:2402.05120 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05120
[14] Yuanjie Lyu, Zihan Niu, Zheyong Xie, Chao Zhang, Tong Xu, Yang Wang,
and Enhong Chen. 2024.
Retrieve-Plan-Generation: An Iterative Plan-
ning and Answering Framework for Knowledge-Intensive LLM Generation.
arXiv:2406.14979 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14979

[15] Yury A. Malkov and Dmitry A. Yashunin. 2016. Efficient and robust approximate
nearest neighbor search using Hierarchical Navigable Small World graphs. CoRR
abs/1603.09320 (2016). arXiv:1603.09320 http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.09320
[16] Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schütze. 2008. Intro-
duction to Information Retrieval. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.
https://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/ Evaluation in Information Retrieval.

[17] Ariana Martino, Michael Iannelli, and Coleen Truong. 2023. Knowledge Injection
to Counter Large Language Model (LLM) Hallucination. In The Semantic Web:
ESWC 2023 Satellite Events: Hersonissos, Crete, Greece, May 28 - June 1, 2023,
Proceedings (Hersonissos, Greece). Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 182–185.
doi:10.1007/978-3-031-43458-7_34

[18] Peter Murár, Michal Kubovics, and Vladimíra Jurišová. 2024. The Impact of
Brand-Voice Integration and Artificial Intelligence on Social Media Marketing.
Communication Today (04 2024), 50–63. doi:10.34135/communicationtoday.2024.
Vol.15.No.1.4

[19] OpenAI. 2024. Introducing ChatGPT Search. https://openai.com/index/\protect\

penalty\z@introducing-chatgpt-search/. Accessed: 2024-11-25.

[20] Perplexity AI. 2024. An Introduction to RAG Models. https://www.perplexity.

ai/page/exploring\protect\penalty\z@-ai-in-search\protect\penalty\z@-an-
intr\protect\penalty\z@-jBULt6_mSB2yAV8b17WLDA. Accessed: 2024-11-25.
[21] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings
using Siamese BERT-Networks. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing. https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:201646309
[22] Arunim Samat. 2024. Legal-RAG vs. RAG: A Technical Exploration of Re-
trieval Systems.
https://www.truelaw.ai/blog/legal-rag-vs-rag-a-technical-
exploration-of-retrieval-systems Published on March 23, 2024, Last Updated on
March 23, 2024.

[23] Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Minlie Huang, Nan Duan, and Weizhu
Chen. 2023. Enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models with
Iterative Retrieval-Generation Synergy. arXiv:2305.15294 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.
org/abs/2305.15294

[24] Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Tao Qin, Jianfeng Lu, and Tie-Yan Liu. 2020. MPNet: Masked
and Permuted Pre-training for Language Understanding. CoRR abs/2004.09297
(2020). arXiv:2004.09297 https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09297

[25] Steven van Vessum. n.d.. Amazon Page Speed Study FAQ. https://www.conductor.
com/academy/page-speed-resources/faq/amazon-page-speed-study Accessed:
2024-11-25.

[26] Pat Verga, Sebastian Hofstatter, Sophia Althammer, Yixuan Su, Aleksandra Piktus,
Arkady Arkhangorodsky, Minjie Xu, Naomi White, and Patrick Lewis. 2024.
Replacing Judges with Juries: Evaluating LLM Generations with a Panel of
Diverse Models. arXiv:2404.18796 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18796
[27] Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc Le, Ed Chi, Sharan Narang,
Aakanksha Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Self-Consistency Improves
Chain of Thought Reasoning in Language Models. arXiv:2203.11171 [cs.CL]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.11171

[28] Zhentao Xu, Mark Jerome Cruz, Matthew Guevara, Tie Wang, Manasi Deshpande,
Xiaofeng Wang, and Zheng Li. 2024. Retrieval-Augmented Generation with
Knowledge Graphs for Customer Service Question Answering. In Proceedings
of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in
Information Retrieval (SIGIR 2024). ACM, 2905–2909. doi:10.1145/3626772.3661370