4
2
0
2
c
e
D
8
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
9
9
7
3
1
.
2
1
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Enhancing Rhetorical Figure Annotation: An Ontology-Based Web
Application with RAG Integration

Ramona Kühn1, Jelena Mitrovi´c1,2, Michael Granitzer1

1University of Passau 2Institute for AI Research and Development of Serbia
Correspondence: {ramona.kuehn, jelena.mitrovic, michael.granitzer}@uni-passau.de

Abstract

Rhetorical figures play an important role in our
communication. They are used to convey sub-
tle, implicit meaning, or to emphasize state-
ments. We notice them in hate speech, fake
news, and propaganda. By improving the sys-
tems for computational detection of rhetorical
figures, we can also improve tasks such as hate
speech and fake news detection, sentiment anal-
ysis, opinion mining, or argument mining. Un-
fortunately, there is a lack of annotated data,
as well as qualified annotators that would help
us build large corpora to train machine learn-
ing models for the detection of rhetorical fig-
ures. The situation is particularly difficult in
languages other than English, and for rhetorical
figures other than metaphor, sarcasm, and irony.
To overcome this issue, we develop a web ap-
plication called “Find your Figure” that facili-
tates the identification and annotation of Ger-
man rhetorical figures. The application is based
on the German Rhetorical ontology GRhOOT
which we have specially adapted for this pur-
pose. In addition, we improve the user expe-
rience with Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG). In this paper, we present the restruc-
turing of the ontology, the development of the
web application, and the built-in RAG pipeline.
We also identify the optimal RAG settings for
our application. Our approach is one of the
first to practically use rhetorical ontologies in
combination with RAG and shows promising
results.

1

Introduction

The consideration of rhetorical figures from a com-
putational perspective is important, as they can
convey subtle, implicit meanings (e.g., metaphors),
make texts more memorable, or add emphasis to
the message (e.g., through the repetition of words).
Their detection in text regularly leads to improved
performance of various NLP applications, such as
hate speech (Lemmens et al., 2021) or fake news de-
tection (Dwivedi and Wankhade, 2021; Fang et al.,

2019; Rubin et al., 2016; Troiano et al., 2018),
sentiment analysis (Ranganath et al., 2018), or per-
suasive communication in general (Anzilotti, 1982;
Gass and Seiter, 2022; Ranganath et al., 2018).

Unfortunately, most computational approaches
for the detection of rhetorical figures struggle
with lower performance than they could actually
achieve, e.g., Bhattasali et al. (2015); Dubremetz
and Nivre (2015); Zhu et al. (2022). Kühn and
Mitrovi´c (2024a) identify the major challenges for
researchers in this domain and point out why their
approaches often suffer from lower performance.
One of the main reasons is the lack of data or un-
balanced datasets. In these datasets, the number
of instances without rhetorical figures is higher
than those containing them, as shown in Adewumi
et al. (2021); Bhattasali et al. (2015); Dubremetz
and Nivre (2017); Kühn et al. (2023); Kühn et al.
(2024b); Ranganath et al. (2018).

Another major problem is that most detection
approaches focus on English. This means that (an-
notated) data in other languages are even scarcer.
In addition, annotators qualified in this research
field are not easy to find, and the quality of their
annotations varies greatly due to the ambiguous na-
ture of rhetorical figures (Strommer, 2011; Gavidia
et al., 2022).

We overcome those two major challenges in the
domain of rhetorical figure detection by develop-
ing an interactive web application for the collec-
tion of rhetorical figures in German. Users with-
out linguistic knowledge are guided through an
interactive process in which they can determine
the name of a rhetorical figure in a text and anno-
tate it. In addition to the guided input, we offer a
chat-like feature, so users can interact with a large
language model (LLM). The LLM obtains domain-
specific knowledge about rhetorical figures through
retrieval augmented generation (RAG) (Lewis et al.,
2020). Although current LLMs are powerful, they
often struggle even in English with generating and

 
 
 
 
 
 
detecting rhetorical figures, especially syntactic fig-
ures. An example is shown in Fig. 1, where Chat-
GPT is asked to generate sentences that contain an
epiphora. Epiphora is a rhetorical figure, where the
last word of each sentence is repeated at the end
of the next sentence (e.g., “When I was a child, I
spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought
as a child”). Although the LLM in our example
is aware of the definition of epiphora, it fails to
apply it in a sentence. The situation is even worse
in languages other than English.

Figure 1: Powerful LLMs such as ChatGPT still fail
when asked for examples of certain rhetorical figures.
In this example, the LLM claims that the last words in
the sentences are repeated.

RAG reduces hallucinations and enables LLMs
to obtain domain-specific knowledge, making it
especially useful in areas where fine-tuning is
constrained by limited data. Rhetorical figures are
such a field with scarce annotated data (Dubremetz
and Nivre, 2017). RAG requires only an external
knowledge source, often a document. This makes
it easier to adapt RAG if the information in the
document changes. We use an adapted version
of the German GRhOOT ontology of rhetorical
figures (Kühn et al., 2022) as an external source
of knowledge. We experiment with different
configurations and chunking methods to find the
optimal setting for our purpose. We evaluate
RAG’s performance with the Ragas framework (Es
et al., 2023) and a ground truth file based on onto-
logical competency questions (Grüninger and Fox,
1995; Allemang and Hendler, 2011; Noy et al.,
2001; Hristozova and Sterling, 2002). Competency
questions are specifications of ontologies ensuring
that they have enough knowledge to answer the
questions of users. They are usually formulated
during the ontology design process.

Our contributions in this paper are as follows:

• Web Application Development: We develop
a web application called “Find your Figure”
to overcome the lack of annotated data for
rhetorical figures in German.

• Ontology Restructuring: We restructure and
simplify the German GRhOOT ontology. The
simplification of relations and properties is
called reification in the context of ontologies.
The reified GRhOOT ontology serves as the
basis for our web application.

• LLM Integration with RAG: We integrate
an LLM with RAG to ensure natural interac-
tion with the ontology, and test different set-
tings and chunking methods to find the most
effective configuration for our needs.

• Performance Evaluation: We evaluate the
performance of the integrated RAG LLM us-
ing the competency questions of the GRhOOT
ontology.

The code and supplementary material are avail-

able online.1

2 Related Work

The scarcity of annotated data and the high imbal-
ance between classes with or without rhetorical fig-
ures is a well-known issue in the domain of compu-
tational detection of rhetorical figures (Dubremetz
and Nivre, 2015; Bhattasali et al., 2015; Dubremetz
and Nivre, 2017; Ranganath et al., 2018; Adewumi
et al., 2021; Kühn et al., 2023; Kühn and Mitro-
vi´c, 2024a). Unfortunately, efforts to overcome the
problem are limited. Chakrabarty et al. (2022) use
OpenAI’s gpt-3 to generate text containing a rhetor-
ical figure, but their method still requires three hu-
man annotators to oversee the output. Additionally,
annotations of rhetorical figures often have a high
variability, because annotators cannot agree on the
existence of a figure in particular cases (Strommer,
2011; Dubremetz and Nivre, 2015; Troiano et al.,
2018). This problem can be directly linked to the
lack of consensus and multiple varying definitions,
inconsistent names, and spellings of rhetorical fig-
ures, which is a well-known problem (Harris et al.,
2018; Gavidia et al., 2022; Kühn and Mitrovi´c,
2024b).

1The code is available on GitHub: https://github.com/

kuehnram/FindYourFigure.

Rhetorical ontologies aim to address this issue
by building formal models to standardize defini-
tions and descriptions.
Important ontologies in
this domain are the English RhetFig (Kelly et al.,
2010), Ploke (Wang et al., 2021), and ESTHER
ontology (Kühn et al., 2023), the Serbian Ret-
Fig (Mladenovi´c and Mitrovi´c, 2013), and the Ger-
man GRhOOT ontology (Kühn et al., 2022). How-
ever, none of those ontologies has yet been applied
in a practical scenario for collecting or annotating
rhetorical figures.

Our work addresses this gap by implementing
a web application based on the German GRhOOT
ontology. In addition, we use the ontology to en-
hance the context of an LLM through RAG. Lewis
et al. (2020) show the effectiveness of RAG in dif-
ferent NLP tasks such as question answering and
generation, while outperforming pre-trained mod-
els. Zhao et al. (2024) present more domains in
which RAG is useful, such as the video, audio, or
text domain.

3 Reification of the GRhOOT ontology

The German GRhOOT ontology was developed
by (Kühn et al., 2022). It contains the formal de-
scription of 110 common German rhetorical fig-
ures. Each figure is specified based on the way it is
constructed. The figure epiphora shall serve as an
example here. In an epiphora, the last word of each
sentence is repeated at the end of the next sentence.
In the ontology, these properties are expressed by
the relations
:Epiphora :isInPosition :Beginning .
:Epiphora :isInArea :Sentence .
:Epiphora :isRepeatableElementOfSameForm
:Word .
Rhetorical figures in the ontology also contain re-
lations to express a textual definition, example
sentences, and names of the figure in other lan-
guages. An example of the complete formal model
of epiphora is shown in Fig. 6 in the Appendix in
Section A. While building the web application and
specifying user needs, we identify opportunities for
further enhancement, particularly in simplifying
the relations within the ontology. For this reason,
we create an adapted version of the GRhOOT on-
tology. The main changes are the reification of
relations and a more fine-grained description of
definitions, authors, example sentences, and their
sources. In addition, we model rhetorical figures
as classes instead of individuals. Reification in-

volves breaking down properties and relationships
into more fine-grained components while offering
a more detailed and flexible representation of the
ontology. Although this approach increases com-
plexity (Stevens and Lord, 2010), it allows for more
precise querying and filtering of attributes. Con-
sider for example the construction relationship
:isRepeatableElementOfSameForm :Word .

When a user wants to list all figures that con-
tain a repetition of a word, it would be a cumber-
some operation to filter the relation names for the
isRepeatable substring. We want to make the
search more intuitive by breaking compound rela-
tions into smaller, fine-grained ones. For example,
we split the repetition relation into three relations
(RF denotes Rhetorical Figure):
:RF :hasOperation :Repetition .
:RF :affectedElement :Word .
:RF :operationalForm :SameForm .
A comparison between old and new relations is
shown in Table 1 in Example (a). There were sev-
eral relations of this form that we adapted accord-
ingly.

This change allows users of the web application
to generally filter for figures with the same oper-
ations, the same affected elements, or the same
operational forms. Reification often makes rela-
tions more implicit, requiring an understanding of
which relations belong together. However, users
are guided through our web interface, so we do not
see any drawbacks.

Moreover, we adapt the ontology to reflect the
hierarchical structure of rhetorical figures. In the
original GRhOOT, rhetorical figures are modeled
as individuals, similar to the Serbian RetFig ontol-
ogy (Mladenovi´c and Mitrovi´c, 2013). However,
the English RhetFig (Kelly et al., 2010) and the
English Ploke ontology (Wang et al., 2021) model
figures as classes. We also decided to convert the
rhetorical figures from individuals to classes to bet-
ter align with established hierarchies in rhetorical
theory (Harris and Di Marco, 2017; O’Reilly et al.,
2018). This adjustment is particularly useful in
annotation tasks, where it is important to recognize
that one figure may be a more specific form of an-
other figure, and both annotations can be valid. For
example, the figure antimetabole is a more specific
form of the figure chiasmus and can therefore be
modeled as a subclass of chiasmus.

Another major change is the adaption of tex-
tual definitions and example sentences that are no
longer modeled as property relations. We convert

the actual definitions and examples into individuals,
called e.g., DefinitionAnaphora1, or Example1.
This way, we can add multiple definitions to a
rhetorical figure, reflecting the great variety of def-
initions from different authors and perspectives.
Furthermore, by not directly naming examples
according to the figure, e.g., ExampleAnaphora1
but only Example1, we can reuse the example for
other figures, because multiple figures are often
co-located. This means that an example can be
assigned to the figure anaphora as well as to an-
other related figure (symploke, epiphora, paral-
lelism, etc.). In addition, the new structure reduces
redundancy in the ontology. The new construction
of the examples is shown in Table 1 in Example (b)
for the definitions and Example (c) for the textual
examples.

Fig. 7 in the Appendix in Section A shows an ex-
ample of the figure epiphora in the reified GRhOOT
ontology.

4 Ontology-Based Web Application for

Rhetorical Figure Annotation

Our overall goal is to improve the computational de-
tection of rhetorical figures by collecting more an-
notated instances of rhetorical figures. We demon-
strated the important role of rhetorical figures and
how their detection can improve many NLP sys-
tems in Section 1. The interaction with the ontol-
ogy through the web application is as natural and
intuitive as possible without the need for linguistic
knowledge or knowledge about ontological details.
When users encounter a sentence in which they
suspect a rhetorical figure, they can use our web ap-
plication to determine its name and function. The
application is based on the Python Flask2 frame-
work and uses an SQLite 3 database. The Flask
framework is suited for lightweight web applica-
tions such as ours.

4.1 Pages of the Web Application

The application encompasses the following five
pages.

• create.html: On this page, users have the
possibility to enter a sentence with a rhetorical
figure without annotating it. Users submit
a text or sentences, context (e.g., preceding
sentences, description of the situation), author,
and source of the text. The example is stored

2https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/
3https://www.sqlite.org/

in the database for later annotation by other
users who do not have an own example but
choose a random one from the database.

• FyF.html: This is the main page of our “Find
your Figure” application. It is shown in Fig. 3.
Users choose to submit their text/sentence or
choose a random one from the database previ-
ously submitted by users on the create.html
page. The option to enter an own text also in-
cludes specifying context, author, and source.
The users then select the properties of the text
from a dropdown list that best describes the
pattern in the submitted text. Properties are
extracted relations from the ontology, such
as operation (e.g., repetition), affected
element (e.g., word). Users always have
the possibility to choose No idea (Keines
davon/Weiß nicht) if they are not sure about
the property. After the users submit the infor-
mation, the properties are translated into a
SPARQL query in the backend and executed
on the ontology. If matching figures are found,
they are presented along with a definition and
examples of the figure in the frontend. The
users can choose one or more figures they con-
sider appropriate as shown in Fig. 4. The text,
context, author, source, and annotated figure
are then written to the SQLite database. The
database scheme is shown in Fig. 2.

• llm.html: As the annotation process in
FyF.html still requires basic knowledge of
linguistic concepts, we integrate a chatbot-like
feature for a more natural interaction between
users and ontology. Users simply submit the
example text they want to annotate and de-
scribe its properties to the LLM. It offers a
field for text, context, author, and source, or
the possibility to load an example from the
database. Instead of the drop-down list, a text
field is presented for the LLM prompt. The
answers are generated by the LLM with RAG
extended context. The different setups to find
the best RAG parameters are described in Sec-
tion 5.

• figure_info.html: This page provides an
informative overview of rhetorical figures.
Users can select the name of a rhetorical figure
from a dropdown list. The application then
presents definitions of the figure and exam-
ple sentences. As the elements of the list and

Example

Original GRhOOT

(a)

(b)

(c)

:RF

:isRepeatableElementOfSameForm

:Word

:RF

rdfs:comment

:Repetition of the first word [...]

:isExample

:RF
(J. W. Goethe, Der Zauberlehrling)

:The water [...]. The water [...]

Reified GRhOOT

:RF

:Repetition ;

:hasOperation
:affectedElement :Word ;
:hasOperationForm :SameForm .

:RF
:DefinitionRF1 :hasAuthor

:hasDefinition

:RF
:Example1

:isDefinition

:hasExample
:hasAuthor
:hasSource
:isExample

:DefinitionRF1 .
“Gerd Berner” ;
“Repetition of the first word [...]” .

:Example1 .
“Johann Wolfgang von Goethe” ;
“Der Zauberlehrling” ;
“The water [...]. The water [....] ” .

Table 1: Example of reified relations that we changed in the new version of the GRhOOT ontology (RF = Rhetorical
Figure).

amounts of text (Smits and Borghuis, 2022). How-
ever, identifying unauthorized material or a viola-
tion of intellectual property is “notoriously difficult
to prove” (Chesterman, 2024). To overcome the
first challenge (1.), users must indicate at least an
author or source of their submitted text. In addition,
we raise awareness of the problem by displaying
an informational text next to the author and source
fields in the create.html and FyF.html pages.
The LLM we are using in the llm.html page is
used in a generative way, but we prompt it with
information from the ontology in a RAG setting
to ensure that it is more likely to only present ex-
amples from the ontology. Another possibility to
make potential copyright infringements tractable is
user authentication via login. However, this would
increase the threshold to use the app, especially for
younger users, e.g., school children.

Furthermore, we want to verify that users only
submit valid text which is then written to the
database (2.). We cannot rely (solely) on common
grammar or spell checks, as odd grammatical con-
structs or omitted letters can be a feature of rhetori-
cal figures. We use a combination of a language de-
tector (langdetect) to identify if the submitted ex-
ample is German, a measure of the text length (10
≤ text_length ≤ 1000, and a grammar checker
that supports German (language-tool-python4).
If one of those three checks fails, we ask gpt-3.5-
turbo to evaluate if the text is “gibberish”. If the an-
swer is positive, we show a notification to the users
if they really want to submit the example, making
them aware of potential problems. If they submit
the example anyhow, we will flag the example in
the database in the column is_invalid, such that
an administrator can later check the validity.

Ensuring that the rhetorical figures assigned by
the users are correct (3.) is a highly challenging

4https://pypi.org/project/

language-tool-python/

Figure 2: Scheme of the SQL Lite Database. The arrows
indicate foreign key (FK) relations. PK denotes primary
keys.

their information are retrieved from the ontol-
ogy, it can be easily extended by adapting the
ontology.

• about.html This page presents our research
project and offers an imprint with contact de-
tails.

Annotated text submitted by the users can be
added to the ontology as examples of the respec-
tive figure. However, we did not implement this
functionality yet, as we first want to verify that the
submitted examples are correct.

4.2 Verification of User Input

We need to verify that

1. users do not violate intellectual property rights

when uploading examples,

2. the submitted text is valid and not “gibberish”,

3. the assigned rhetorical figures is correct,

4. the submitted text is not harmful or violating,
especially when presented to other people for
annotation.

It is important to verify that no intellectual prop-
erty rights are infringed, especially when we later
train models on the obtained data. Researchers
are aware of those challenges regarding intellec-
tual property rights when training LLMs with large

Figure 3: The page FyF.html helps users to find the name of a rhetorical figure hidden in a text. Properties can be
selected from the dropdown lists.

is_verified in table Annotation (see Fig. 2) is
intended to mark if an example has already been
approved.

Users can annotate random examples from the
database on the FyF.html page. However, we want
to ensure that potentially harmful content is not pre-
sented (4.), especially when the web application is
used by young children who learn about rhetorical
figures. We do not prevent per se the submission of
harmful content, as certain rhetorical figures occur
frequently in hate speech, e.g., sarcasm (Frenda
et al., 2023). However, we exclude those exam-
ples to be shown to other users. We introduce the
boolean field is_harmful to mark those examples
and prevent their retrieval for annotation in the
FyF.html page. We have not yet implemented any
hate speech detection mechanism yet. However,
we plan to run a daily check on the database.

5 RAG Integration: Parameter Testing

and Evaluation

RAG uses an external knowledge source to enhance
the context of an LLM. LLMs still struggle to gen-
erate rhetorical figures as we showed in Fig. 1. An-
other challenge in this domain are the many dif-
ferent and varying definitions of rhetorical figures.
Though, we want the integrated LLM to respond to
the web application users with the specific defini-
tions we use in our ontology to ensure consistent
annotation guidelines.

Fig. 5 illustrates the RAG pipeline with its indi-
vidual steps. It also shows the different parameters
used in our experiment to determine the optimal
settings for the web application. The input is the

Figure 4: The result of the user’s submission. Rhetorical
figures fulfilling the properties are displayed along with
the option to select suitable ones.

task. A different detection algorithm would be re-
quired for each figure. However, especially for
figures other than metaphor, irony, and sarcasm, if
any approaches exist, they often have lower per-
formance (Kühn et al., 2024a). In addition, each
approach is language dependent and often requires
high manual efforts to achieve acceptable perfor-
mance (Mladenovi´c et al., 2017). Using existing
lexical resources for rule-based approaches, such
as German wordnets, is barely an option as they do
not contain enough information for a reliable detec-
tion (Kühn et al., 2023) and are in general difficult
to maintain (Mladenovi´c et al., 2014). Even ap-
proaches based on language models are difficult to
implement as data is too scarce or often too imbal-
anced for training models (Dubremetz and Nivre,
2015; Kühn et al., 2024b). However, we use a rule-
based check if a figure of perfect lexical repetition
is assigned and verify that at least two words are
repeated in the same form. Nevertheless, we still
have to rely on manual checks by an administra-
tor for all figures. For this purpose, the column

Figure 5: Overview of the integrated RAG Pipeline for the GRhOOT ontology.

reified GRhOOT ontology which is also the basis
of the web application. After chunking and embed-
ding the information (steps 1 and 2), it is stored
in a vector store (step 3). When a user asks the
system a question about rhetorical figures in step
4 (e.g., “What is an alliteration?”), the question is
embedded and compared to the content in the vec-
tor store. The top-k relevant chunks are retrieved
in step 5, often in combination with a reranker, and
added as context to the query, e.g., actual examples
of an alliteration. The LLM receives the context
along with the original question. In step 6, the
LLM answers the users’ questions with a reduced
probability of hallucinations and knowledge of the
domain, which are rhetorical figures in our case.

To find the best setting, we experiment with dif-
ferent chunk sizes ([2048],[2048, 512, 128], and
[512, 256, 128]). It is a known phenomenon called
“lost in the middle” that content stored in the mid-
dle of a chunk is more difficult for the LLM to
recall (Liu et al., 2024). Therefore, we test dif-
ferent sizes to avoid this problem. As chunk-
ing technique, we investigate basic chunking (i)
and auto-merging retrieval chunking (ii) with the
HierarchicalNodeParser by LlamaIndex.5 It is
an advanced chunking technique, where a smaller
chunk that contains relevant information is merged
into the parent chunk and provided as context.

We use the multilingual model bge-m36 for the

embeddings.

Usually, the vectorized index is stored in a suit-

5https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/api_

reference/node_parsers/hierarchical/

6https://huggingface.co/BAAI/bge-m3

able vector database, which offers additional ben-
efits, especially when working with multiple doc-
uments. However, as we only focus on a compact
and relatively small ontology, we do not need a
vector database. Instead, we store the index in a
file. This approach reduces the number of variables
that could affect the output, as we are not relying
on optimization strategies of database vendors.

Furthermore, we use a reranker (BAAI/bge-
reranker-large) in all settings to improve the results.
In setting (α), we first retrieve the top-12 chunks,
while the reranker selects the top-6 chunks. In set-
ting (β), we retrieve the top-6 chunks, while the
reranker selects the top-3 chunks (β).

We are using OpenAI’s gpt-3.5-turbo as LLM,
as it shows good results in German. We set the
temperature to 0.1 to obtain stable responses.

5.1 Evaluation Setup for the RAG pipeline

RAG evaluation still poses a challenge. We use the
Ragas7 framework for evaluation. It requires a file
of questions, answers generated by the LLM in the
last step of the RAG pipeline, context information
from the original document, and ground truth an-
swers. Most approaches rely on LLM-generated
ground truths that are then again evaluated by an
LLM.

Ontologies in general and especially the
GRhOOT ontology have a big advantage here.
We can use ontological competency questions
(CQ) (Grüninger and Fox, 1995; Noy et al., 2001;
Hristozova and Sterling, 2002; Allemang and
Hendler, 2011) their respective answers extracted

7https://github.com/explodinggradients/ragas

Document Chunk Sizes

Chunking Method

reranker

faithf.

c_precision

c_recall

a_correctn.

a_similarity

a_relevancy

Reified
GRhOOT

2048
2048
2048, 512, 128
2048, 512, 128
512, 256, 128
512, 256, 128

Basic
Basic
AMR
AMR
AMR
AMR

top-12/6
top-6/3
top-12/6
top-6/3
top-12/6
top-6/3

0.9023
0.8342
0.8760
0.7612
0.8817
0.8622

0.5548
0.8496
0.5762
0.9009
0.8446
0.9230

0.9857
0.9098
0.9714
0.9254
0.6571
0.9190

0.7355
0.5678
0.6481
0.8619
0.8311
0.5969

0.8655
0.9673
0.8542
0.6625
0.7099
0.9608

0.9489
0.7119
0.8616
0.8041
0.8889
0.5587

Table 2: Results of our RAG experiments on the reified ontology with different settings. AMR stands for automerging
retrieval, an advanced chunking technique. The best scores per column are highlighted in bold.

from the ontology to generate the ground truth
file for the Ragas evaluation. Unfortunately, the
GRhOOT ontology comes only with five CQs.
However, Alharbi et al. (2023) and Ciroku et al.
(2024) demonstrate that OpenAI gpt-4 can gener-
ate competency questions after the ontology has
been created. Therefore, we also use gpt-4 to gen-
erate further CQs for the reified GRhOOT ontol-
ogy. In contrast to Alharbi et al. (2023), we skip
the triple extraction and provide only the formal-
ization of one rhetorical figure as context to the
LLM. The LLM is then able to formulate appro-
priate questions. Additionally, we create template
questions asking for properties of rhetorical figures,
i.e., “What is <property> of the rhetorical figure
<figure_name>”, e.g., “What is an example of the
rhetorical figure anaphora?”. With those meth-
ods, we obtain 70 CQs. We formulate matching
SPARQL queries to retrieve the answers from the
ontology. The context is manually extracted from
the ontology. From this information, we construct
our ground truth file in the required format for the
Ragas framework. The answers of the LLM still
require post-processing before we can use them
in the Ragas framework as the LLM tends to add
additional quotation marks around figure names or
examples but often does not close them. The post-
processing step is only necessary for the evaluation.
It is not required in the production mode of our
web application.

For the evaluation, we use the pre-defined met-
rics from the Ragas framework. A detailed de-
scription can be found online, 8 but we describe
them shortly here for clarification. We choose the
following Ragas metrics:

• Faithfulness: Describes the extent to which

the answer is grounded in the context.

• Context precision: Measures if relevant

8https://docs.ragas.io/en/latest/concepts/

metrics/index.html

chunks are ranked higher.

• Context recall: Measures if the retrieved

context is present in the ground truth.

• Answer relevancy: Measures the relevancy
of the answer to the question by calculating
mean cosine similarity between the actual
question and artificial questions generated by
an LLM based on the answer.

• Answer correctness: Measures how seman-
tically and factually similar the answer is to
the ground truth.

• Answer (semantic) similarity: Measures
the semantic similarity between the ground
truth and the LLM’s answer based on the co-
sine similarity of the embeddings.

From a user’s perspective, the performance of an-
swer metrics, particularly answer correctness,
is more important than the performance of context
metrics. Therefore, we focus especially on these
metrics.

5.2 Evaluation Results

In the first review of the answers, we notice that
the LLM sometimes responds in English instead of
German. For this reason, we add to the prompt the
request to only answer in German (step 4 in Fig. 5):
“Bitte antworte nur auf Deutsch!” (“Please answer
only in German!”).

Table 2 shows the result for the different settings.
Surprisingly, advanced chunking techniques do
not increase the performance. As best setting, we
identify basic chunking with a chunk size of 2048,
where the top-12 chunks are selected first and then
filtered for the top-6 by the reranker. Only the
context precision is low in this setting. However, as
we mentioned, we focus more on answer metrics.
When reviewing the results, we notice deviations in
answer correctness and answer similarity,

even when the LLM’s answer is correct and se-
mantically similar to the ground truth. We identify
the LLM’s circumscription of the answer as the
problem. For example, consider the following case:

“What

Question:
is the name of the figure
where the first letter of each word sounds the
same?”
Ground truth: “Alliteration”
LLM’s answer (translated from German): “The
name of the figure where the first letters of each
word sounds the same is ’Alliteration”’

leads

answer

reduced answer
This
to a
correctness and answer
similarity be-
cause of the wordiness of the LLM’s answer.
However, we do not consider this as an issue
since the answer is correct and users would
probably prefer a complete sentence over a
single-word-response.

Other examples where the LLM is correct but
creates reduced answer correctness and answer
similarity are a different choice of words. For
example, the LLM answers with this definition for
a rhetorical figure

LLM’s answer:
“Eine Wiederholung des
Anfangslautes benachbarter oder nah beieinander-
stehender Worte in einem Satz oder Vers”
Ground truth: “Gleichklingender Anlaut der
betonten Silben innerhalb einer Wortgruppe”,

where “Gleichklingender Anlaut” means the
same as “Wiederholung des Anfangslauts”. We
assume that it is caused by the definitions in
the ontology taken from dictionaries and books,
while the LLM uses more “modern” language and
simpler expressions.

We see problems when the LLM is asked to an-
swer questions that require aggregation of informa-
tion (e.g., “What are the linguistic groups defined
in the ontology?””), which requires reasoning over
multiple chunks. This finding is in line with the ex-
perience of Alharbi et al. (2023) that LLMs gener-
ally tend to fail in such tasks. Unfortunately, RAG
can do little to change this. Nevertheless, the high
values of the metrics show the efficiency of RAG on
ontologies. Even without special adaptions to the
ontological structure, we achieve satisfying results.

6 Conclusion

The development of the web application to collect
rhetorical figures is an important step to overcome
the scarcity of annotated data in the field of the
computational detection of rhetorical figures, espe-
cially in German. The web application allows users
to specify the properties of a text and assists them
to name and annotate the rhetorical figure hidden
in it. Furthermore, the web application serves as
an information collection about rhetorical figures,
where users can learn the definitions and see ex-
amples. The web application, which is built on
top of the GRhOOT ontology, is one of the first
approaches to practically use a rhetorical figure
ontology for figure annotation. It also contains ver-
ification functions for the user input. The integrated
RAG pipeline allows users to use an LLM-powered
chat for the interaction with the GRhOOT ontol-
ogy. One of our main objectives for the future is
to publish the web application and promote it to
potential users. We can then evaluate the features
of the application that are most beneficial to users
and learn about their behavior, for example, if they
prefer the chat function with the integrated RAG
model or the structured drop-down fields.

In addition, we will observe the performance of
the RAG pipeline. When we collect more exam-
ples from users through the web application, it is
possible to add them to the ontology and update
the vector store to improve the performance of the
RAG pipeline. We also envision gamification ele-
ments and user sessions to store their achievements
to keep them engaged. In addition, we will extend
our verification methods for the user input. We also
plan to show retrieved chunks to the users so they
can compare the information from the ontology
with the LLM’s answer.

Nevertheless, the current version that combines
annotation capabilities and educational resources
makes our application a valuable tool in the domain
of computational detection of rhetorical figures, as
well as a possible interactive resource in education.

7 Limitations

Our web application for identifying rhetorical fig-
ures has some limitations. It is better suited to iden-
tify figures with obvious rhetorical features, e.g.,
figures with repeating elements, than for figures re-
lying on transferred meanings, such as metaphors.
However, we see this rather as a limitation on the
side of the users. For most persons without lin-

guistic knowledge of rhetorical figures, it is easier
to spot and describe obvious lexical patterns than
figures with implicit, transferred meaning. Ad-
ditionally, this app represents only the initial im-
plementation of our envisioned tool. There are
many possible features that can be implemented,
enhanced, and improved in the future.

8 Ethical Considerations

Regarding the web application, the main concern is
the violation of intellectual property rights. Users
may submit text from sources they do not have the
right to use. Furthermore, the text is then stored in
the database and used to train models, even if the
original authors did not agree on the distribution
of their text. This is not an easy task to solve both
from a computational and legal perspective. How-
ever, we established methods to encourage users to
indicate an author or source of the examples.

Regarding the RAG pipeline, users should be
aware that the LLM may produce incorrect answers.
We hope to support the users in assessing the truth
with our web application, as they can browse the
figures to learn about them and with the planned
feature to show the retrieved chunks along with
the answer of the LLM. This way, users can get a
clearer picture if the LLM’s answer is correct.

In conclusion, while RAG on rhetorical ontolo-
gies holds significant potential for advancing NLP,
addressing these ethical concerns is important to
ensure their responsible and fair application.

Acknowledgements

The project on which this report is based was
funded by the German Federal Ministry of Edu-
cation and Research (BMBF) under the funding
code 01|S20049. The authors are responsible for
the content of this publication.

References

Tosin P Adewumi, Roshanak Vadoodi, Aparajita Tri-
pathy, Konstantina Nikolaidou, Foteini Liwicki, and

Marcus Liwicki. 2021. Potential idiomatic expres-
sion (PIE)-english: Corpus for classes of idioms.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.03280.

Reham Alharbi, Valentina Tamma, Floriana Grasso, and
Terry Payne. 2023. An experiment in retrofitting
competency questions for existing ontologies. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.05662.

Dean Allemang and James Hendler. 2011. Semantic
web for the working ontologist: effective modeling in
RDFS and OWL. Elsevier.

Gloria Italiano Anzilotti. 1982. The rhetorical question
as an indirect speech device in English and Italian.
Canadian Modern Language Review, 38(2):290–302.
Publisher: University of Toronto Press.

Shohini Bhattasali, Jeremy Cytryn, Elana Feldman, and
Joonsuk Park. 2015. Automatic identification of
rhetorical questions. In Proceedings of the 53rd an-
nual meeting of the association for computational
linguistics and the 7th international joint conference
on natural language processing (volume 2: Short
papers), pages 743–749.

Tuhin Chakrabarty, Arkadiy Saakyan, Debanjan Ghosh,
and Smaranda Muresan. 2022. Flute: Figurative
language understanding through textual explanations.
In Proceedings of the 2022 conference on empirical
methods in natural language processing, pages 7139–
7159.

Simon Chesterman. 2024. Good models borrow, great
models steal: intellectual property rights and genera-
tive ai. Policy and Society, page puae006.

Fiorela Ciroku, Jacopo de Berardinis, Jongmo Kim, Al-
bert Merono Penuela, Valentina Presutti, and Elena
Simperl. 2024. Revont: Reverse engineering of com-
petency questions from knowledge graphs via lan-
guage models. Journal of Web Semantics.

Marie Dubremetz and Joakim Nivre. 2015. Rhetori-
cal figure detection: The case of chiasmus. In Pro-
ceedings of the fourth workshop on computational
linguistics for literature, pages 23–31.

Marie Dubremetz and Joakim Nivre. 2017. Machine
learning for rhetorical figure detection: More chi-
asmus with less annotation. In Proceedings of the
21st nordic conference on computational linguistics,
pages 37–45, Gothenburg, Sweden. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

Sanjeev M Dwivedi and Sunil B Wankhade. 2021. Sur-
vey on fake news detection techniques. In Image pro-
cessing and capsule networks: ICIPCN 2020, pages
342–348. Springer.

Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, and
Steven Schockaert. 2023. Ragas: Automated eval-
uation of retrieval augmented generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.15217.

Yong Fang, Jian Gao, Cheng Huang, Hua Peng, and
Runpu Wu. 2019. Self multi-head attention-based
convolutional neural networks for fake news detec-
tion. PloS one, 14(9):e0222713. Publisher: Public
Library of Science San Francisco, CA USA.

Ramona Kühn, Jelena Mitrovi´c, and Michael Gran-
itzer. 2024a. Computational approaches to the de-
tection of lesser-known rhetorical figures: A system-
atic survey and research challenges. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.16674.

Simona Frenda, Viviana Patti, and Paolo Rosso. 2023.
When sarcasm hurts: Irony-aware models for abusive
language detection. In International conference of
the cross-language evaluation forum for european
languages, pages 34–47. Springer.

Robert H Gass and John S Seiter. 2022. Persuasion:
Social influence and compliance gaining. Routledge.

Martha Gavidia, Patrick Lee, Anna Feldman, and Jing
Peng. 2022. Cats are fuzzy pets: A corpus and analy-
sis of potentially euphemistic terms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.02728.

Michael Grüninger and Mark S Fox. 1995. Method-
ology for the design and evaluation of ontologies.
Publisher: Citeseer.

Randy Allen Harris and Chrysanne Di Marco. 2017.
Rhetorical figures, arguments, computation. Argu-
ment & Computation, 8(3):211–231. Publisher: IOS
Press.

Randy Allen Harris, Chrysanne Di Marco, Sebastian
Ruan, and Cliff O’Reilly. 2018. An annotation
scheme for rhetorical figures. Argument & Com-
putation, 9(2):155–175.

Maia Hristozova and Leon Sterling. 2002. An eXtreme
method for developing lightweight ontologies. In
Workshop on Ontologies in Agent Systems, 1st In-
ternational Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents
and Multi-Agent Systems,(Bologna, Italy, 2002).

Ramona Kühn, Khouloud Saadi, Jelena Mitrovi´c, and
Michael Granitzer. 2024b. Using pre-trained lan-
guage models in an end-to-end pipeline for antithe-
sis detection. In Proceedings of the 2024 Joint In-
ternational Conference on Computational Linguis-
tics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-
COLING 2024), pages 17310–17320.

Ramona Kühn, Jelena Mitrovic, and Michael Granitzer.
2023. Hidden in plain sight: Can german wiktionary
and wordnets facilitate the detection of antithesis? In
Proceedings of the 12th global wordnet conference,
pages 106–116.

Ramona Kühn, Jelena Mitrovi´c, and Michael Gran-
itzer. 2022. GRhOOT: Ontology of rhetorical fig-
In Proceedings of the thirteenth
ures in German.
language resources and evaluation conference, pages
4001–4010, Marseille, France. European Language
Resources Association.

Jens Lemmens, Ilia Markov, and Walter Daelemans.
2021. Improving hate speech type and target detec-
tion with hateful metaphor features. In Proceedings
of the fourth workshop on NLP for internet freedom:
Censorship, disinformation, and propaganda, pages
7–16.

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation
for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems, 33:9459–9474.

Ashley R Kelly, Nike A Abbott, Randy Allen Harris,
Chrysanne DiMarco, and David R Cheriton. 2010.
Toward an ontology of rhetorical figures. In Proceed-
ings of the 28th ACM international conference on
design of communication, pages 123–130.

Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-
jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy
Liang. 2024. Lost in the middle: How language mod-
els use long contexts. Transactions of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, 12:157–173.

Ramona Kühn and Jelena Mitrovi´c. 2024a. The ele-
phant in the room: Ten challenges of computational
detection of rhetorical figures. In Proceedings of the
4th Workshop on Figurative Language Processing
(FigLang 2024), pages 45–52.

Ramona Kühn and Jelena Mitrovi´c. 2024b. Status Quo
der Entwicklungen von Ontologien Rhetorischer Fig-
uren in Englisch, Deutsch und Serbisch. In Book of
Abstracts - DHd2024. Zenodo.

Ramona Kühn, Jelena Mitrovi´c, and Michael Granitzer.
2023. Esther: Ontology of rhetorical figures in en-
glish. In Proceedings of the Joint Ontology Work-
shops 2023 Episode IX: The Quebec Summer of On-
tology co-located with the 13th International Con-
ference on Formal Ontology in Information Systems
(FOIS 2023).

Miljana Mladenovi´c, Cvetana Krstev, Jelena Mitrovi´c,
and Ranka Stankovi´c. 2017. Using lexical resources
for irony and sarcasm classification. In Proceedings
of the 8th Balkan Conference in Informatics, pages
1–8.

Miljana Mladenovi´c, Jelena Mitrovi´c, and Cvetana
Krstev. 2014. Developing and maintaining a wordnet:
Procedures and tools. In Proceedings of the Seventh
Global Wordnet Conference, pages 55–62.

Miljana Mladenovi´c and Jelena Mitrovi´c. 2013. Ontol-
ogy of rhetorical figures for serbian. In Text, speech,
and dialogue, pages 386–393, Berlin, Heidelberg.
Springer.

Natalya F Noy, Deborah L McGuinness, and others.
2001. Ontology development 101: A guide to creat-
ing your first ontology.

Cliff O’Reilly, Yetian Wang, Katherine Tu, Sarah
Bott, Paulo Pacheco, Tyler William Black, and
Randy Allen Harris. 2018. Arguments in gradatio,
incrementum and climax; a climax ontology. In Pro-
ceedings of the18th workshop on computational mod-
els of natural argument. Academic press.

Suhas Ranganath, Xia Hu, Jiliang Tang, Suhang Wang,
and Huan Liu. 2018. Understanding and identifying
rhetorical questions in social media. ACM Transac-
tions on Intelligent Systems and Technology (TIST),
9(2):1–22.

Victoria L Rubin, Niall Conroy, Yimin Chen, and Sarah
Cornwell. 2016. Fake news or truth? using satirical
cues to detect potentially misleading news. In Pro-
ceedings of the second workshop on computational
approaches to deception detection, pages 7–17.

Jan Smits and Tijn Borghuis. 2022. Generative ai and
In Law and artificial
intellectual property rights.
intelligence: regulating AI and applying AI in legal
practice, pages 323–344. Springer.

Robert Stevens and Phillip Lord. 2010. Reification of
properties in an ontology. Ontogenesis, An Ontology
Tutorial.

Claus Walter Strommer. 2011. Using rhetorical figures
and shallow attributes as a metric of intent in text.
Publisher: University of Waterloo.

Enrica Troiano, Carlo Strapparava, Gözde Özbal, and
Serra Sinem Tekiro˘glu. 2018. A computational ex-
ploration of exaggeration. In Proceedings of the 2018
conference on empirical methods in natural language
processing, pages 3296–3304.

Yetian Wang, Randy Allen Harris, and Daniel M Berry.
2021. An ontology for ploke: Rhetorical figures of
lexical repetitions. In JOWO.

Penghao Zhao, Hailin Zhang, Qinhan Yu, Zhengren
Wang, Yunteng Geng, Fangcheng Fu, Ling Yang,
Wentao Zhang, and Bin Cui. 2024. Retrieval-
augmented generation for ai-generated content: A
survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.19473.

Dawei Zhu, Qiusi Zhan, Zhejian Zhou, Yifan Song,
Jiebin Zhang, and Sujian Li. 2022. ConFiguRe:
Exploring discourse-level chinese figures of speech.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.07678.

A Appendix

Fig. 6 shows the graphical illustration of the fig-
ure epiphora in the original GRhOOT ontology
by Kühn et al. (2022). Classes are shown in blue
boxes, individuals in purple boxes, and the blue
arrows represent relations. The adapted, reified ver-
sion of an epiphora is shown in Fig. 7. Individuals
are now modeled as classes, while definitions are
specific instances. In addition, we simplified the
long relations with compound semantics to make
them more explicit.

Figure 6: The formal model of an epiphora in the GRhOOT ontology, illustrating the relations between the
construction properties.

Figure 7: The formal model of an epiphora in the reified GRhOOT ontology. Compared to the model in the original
GRhOOT in Fig.6, relations are simplified. In addition, the concepts are now modeled as classes, illustrated by blue
boxes instead of purple boxes that represent individuals.