EdgeRAG: Online-Indexed RAG for Edge Devices

Korakit Seemakhupt1, Sihang Liu2, and Samira Khan1,3

1 University of Virginia, 2 University of Waterloo, 3 Google

4
2
0
2

c
e
D
1
3

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

2
v
3
2
0
1
2
.
2
1
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Deploying Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG) on resource-constrained edge devices is
challenging due to limited memory and process-
ing power. In this work, we propose EdgeRAG
which addresses the memory constraint by prun-
ing embeddings within clusters and generating
embeddings on-demand during retrieval. To avoid
the latency of generating embeddings for large
tail clusters, EdgeRAG pre-computes and stores
embeddings for these clusters, while adaptively
caching remaining embeddings to minimize re-
dundant computations and further optimize la-
tency. The result from BEIR suite shows that
EdgeRAG offers significant latency reduction
over the baseline IVF index, but with similar gen-
eration quality while allowing all of our evaluated
datasets to fit into the memory.

1. Introduction

Large Language Models (LLMs) enable new applications
such as smart assistants (Google, 2024; Microsoft). The
processing of these powerful LLMs is usually offloaded to
the datacenter due to the enormous resources required. How-
ever, the latest mobile platforms enable smaller LLM to run
locally. These lightweight models cannot directly compare
with the state-of-the-art hundred-billion parameter LLMs.
To enhance these models to process users’ custom data and
applications, a promising solution is to build a compounding
system. By integrating LLMs with Retrieval Augmented
Generation (RAG), these smaller models can leverage local
personal data to generate high-quality responses.

Even though RAG removes the requirement for a heavy-
weight LLM for generation, retrieval still has a high over-
head. The core of a RAG system is a vector database that
enables vector similarity search. Different from LLMs,
the overhead of RAG mainly comes from its memory foot-
print. For example, a Flat Index stores and sequentially
searches every vector representation of the data chunks to
identify the closest match to the query. For example, in
fever(Thorne et al., 2018) dataset, a vector database that

1

holds 5.23 million records has an index size of 18.5 GB.
In comparison, mobile devices tend to have 4-12 GB of
main memory (Wiens, 2024; Sam, 2024). Thus even using
the whole memory on a mobile platform is not sufficient
to run a large vector database. On the other hand, storing
the vector database on disk introduces substantial access
latency, impacting performance.

Our research focused on the challenges of implement-
ing Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) on edge sys-
tems—mainly the overhead of the vector similarity search.
We find that naively keeping the entire index in the main
memory would not fit into the memory of mobile platforms.
A Flat index which performs sequential search of all embed-
dings not only expensive in term of computation, but also
trash memory leading to poor performance. On the other
hand, Two-level Inverted File (IVF) index clusters embed-
dings of data chunks into centroids. The retrieval process
first searches for the closest centroid and then performs a
second search within the cluster. Thus, avoid expensive
sequential search of all embeddings. However, keeping
all embeddings in memory still leads to excessive memory
thrashing and increased latency. Thus, keeping the first-
level centroid in memory and generating the second level
online can be a promising solution. Through further profil-
ing the RAG on mobile platforms using widely-used RAG
benchmarks (Thakur et al., 2021), we find that both the data
access pattern and the access latency are highly skewed.
First, most of the embedding vectors are not searched dur-
ing the retrieval process. Second, the cost of generating the
embedding vector is not the same for all clusters and has an
extreme tail distribution. These skewness leave space for
further optimizations.

In this work, we develop a mobile RAG system, EdgeRAG
that enables RAG-based LLM on mobile platforms, by fit-
ting the vector database in the limited mobile memory while
ensuring that the response time meets the service level objec-
tives (SLOs) of mobile AI assistant applications. Based on
these observations, our key ideas are the following: First, we
prune the vector embedding of the data embeddings within
centroid clusters which are only used for second-level search
to save the memory capacity. EdgeRAG then generates the
vector embedding online during the retrieval process. How-

 
 
 
 
 
 
ever, due to limited computing on edge systems, generating
vector embedding online could suffer from long embedding
generation latency from large tail clusters. To overcome
this challenge, our second solution is to pre-compute and
store the embeddings of large tail clusters to avoid long
tail latency of generating vector embeddings of data within
those tail clusters. Then, EdgeRAG can adaptively cache
the remaining vector embeddings to minimize redundant
computation and improve overall latency, based on the spare
memory capacity and SLO requirements.

We evaluate EdgeRAG on a mobile platform based on
Nvidia Jetson Orin Nano equipped with 8 GB of shared
main memory, similar to a mobile edge platform that has
neural processing capabilities (Sam, 2024). We use 6 work-
loads from the BEIR benchmark suite (Thakur et al., 2021)
and tune the retrieval hyperparameters to normalize the re-
call against the Flat index baseline. We also evaluate the
generation quality using GPT-4o (OpenAI) LLM as an LLM
evaluator (Saad-Falcon et al., 2023). We use the time-to-
first-token (TTFT) latency as the main metric. The result
shows that EdgeRAG offers 1.8 × faster TTFT over the base-
line IVF index on average and 3.82 × for larger datasets.
At the same time, EdgeRAG maintains a similar generation
quality with recall and generation scores within 5 percent of
the Flat Index baseline while allowing all of our evaluated
datasets to fit into the memory and avoid memory thrashing.

In summary, the contributions of this work are the following:

• We identify two key challenges of implementing RAG
on edge devices: First, limited memory capacity does
not allow loading large embedding vector database in the
memory leading to memory thrashing and poor perfor-
mance. Although only a small subset of embeddings are
searched for two-level IVF index. Second, limited com-
puting power of edge devices which slows down online
embedding generation especially on few large tail and
repeatedly used clusters.

• To enable scalable and memory-efficient RAG on edge
systems, we propose EdgeRAG which improves upon
IVF index by pruning second-level embeddings to reduce
memory footprint and generate the embedding online dur-
ing retrieval time. EdgeRAG mitigates long tail latency
from generating the embeddings of heavy cluster by pre-
computing and storing those tails. To further optimize
latency, EdgeRAG selectively caches generated embed-
dings to reduce redundant computation while minimizing
memory overhead.

• We implement EdgeRAG on Jetson Orin edge platform
and evaluate our system with datasets from BEIR bench-
mark. The results show that EdgeRAG significantly im-
proves the retrieval latency of large datasets with embed-
ding sizes larger than the memory capacity by 131% with

slight reduction in retrieval and generation quality.

2. Background

2.1. Retrieval Augmented Generation

Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020)
is a technique used to improve the accuracy of the Large
Language Model (LLM) by integrating an external knowl-
edge base with the LLM. Instead of retraining the entire
LLM with new information, RAG adds new data to the
database. The RAG consists of two parts: Indexing and
Lookup.

Indexing: Adding new data to the database involves a pro-
cess called indexing, illustrated in Figure 1a. First, the sys-
tem pre-processes the incoming data. This preprocessing in-
volves splitting the data into smaller overlapping chunks rep-
resented by nodes (step 1 ). Each chunk of data is then fed
into an embedding model, which generates a unique high-
dimension vector representation for that particular piece of
data (step 2 ). Finally, these embedded vectors, which act
as compressed representations of the data, are stored in a
separate database for efficient retrieval later (step 3 ).

Lookup: When a user submits a request, the system per-
forms a lookup process as shown in Figure 1b. First, the
user’s request goes through the same embedding model as
the data in an indexing phase (step 1 ). This creates a vec-
tor representing the user’s query. Then, this embedding
of the query is compared to the embedded vectors stored
in the dedicated database. This is also known as vector
similarity search (step 2 ). The system returns the closest
matches among these stored indexes (step 3 ). Finally, the
data nodes associated with the closest matching indexes are
retrieved and fed to the large language model (LLM) to gen-
erate a response (step 4 ). Essentially, the lookup process
helps retrieve data in the database related to the user’s query.
The LLM then uses this retrieved information to generate a
response.

(a) Indexing

(b) Lookup
Figure 1. RAG Pipelines.

2.2. Index Similarity Search

As mentioned in the previous section, RAG searches for the
embedding representation of the data chunk in the database
with the closest distance to the query embeddings. However,

2

DocumentNodesIndex❶ Preprocess❷ GenerateEmbedding❸ InsertVector EmbeddingsQueryVector Embedding❷ Look UpNearest Vectors❸ RetrieveNodesResponse❶ Generate EmbeddingIndexNodes❹ Generate Response (LLM)Table 1. Edge system comparison

System

Memory Compute Units

iPhone 16 Pro (Wiens, 2024) 8 GB
Galaxy S24 (Sam, 2024)
8 GB
Jetson Orin Nano (NVIDIA) 8 GB

CPU+GPU+NPU
CPU+GPU+NPU
CPU+GPU+TensorCore

Nvidia L40 (Nvidia) (Server) 48 GB GPU

Figure 2. Retrieval process of Inverted File Index

embeddings often reside in high-dimensional spaces. Tech-
niques like sorting, which are efficient in low-dimensional
spaces, become less effective or even infeasible in high-
dimensional spaces. Consequently, finding similar embed-
dings in high-dimensional spaces requires computationally
expensive operations. Distance metrics such as Euclidean
distance or cosine similarity involve calculations across
all dimensions of the vectors, making the process time-
consuming.

2.3. RAG Indexing Methods

We previously discussed the challenges of vector similarity
search. Now, we’ll explore indexing techniques that can
significantly improve search.

Flat Index compares a query embedding to every embed-
ding in the index. While this method is highly accurate,
it can be computationally expensive, especially for large
datasets.

Inverted File (IVF) Index (Sivic & Zisserman, 2003) em-
ploys clustering algorithms to group similar documents into
clusters. Figure 2 illustrates IVF’s retrieval procedure. Dur-
ing query processing, the system first compares the query to
the centroids of these clusters in the first level index (step 1 ).
This initial comparison significantly reduces the number of
documents to be examined, leading to faster search times.
Then the system searches the second level index for the most
similar embedding (step 2 ). Finally, the system retrieves
data associated with the embedding (step 3 ). However, this
approach can potentially miss relevant documents that don’t
align perfectly with cluster boundaries. To mitigate this, the
system may also need to search adjacent clusters, which can
slightly increase search time but improve accuracy.

3. Motivation

3.1. Memory Limitation on Edge Platforms

Figure 3 presents the latency breakdown of the RAG system
on an edge platform. End-to-end latency is categorized into
three phases: 1) Retrieval latency, the duration of vector
similarity search to identify relevant text chunks; 2) First

Figure 3. RAG latency breakdown and embedded database size

Token Latency or Prefill, the time from model input (query
and retrieved chunks) to the generation of the first output to-
ken; and 3) Generation latency, the time from the first to the
last generated token. The combined Retrieval and First To-
ken latency, or Time-to-First-Token (TTFT), directly affects
user-perceived latency, as it represents the delay between
query submission and the display of the initial response.
While IVF index exhibits slower latency growth compared
to Flat index, both configurations are susceptible to mem-
ory thrashing for datasets exceeding available memory (nq,
hotpotqa, fever). This results in significant latency penalties
as the system is forced to repeatedly load and unload the
embedding database and the model from the storage. There-
fore, efficient memory utilization is critical to mitigate this
issue.

3.2. Compute vs. Data Movement trade-offs

One of the way to reduce the memory footprint of embed-
dings is to generate them only when needed for incoming
queries. Since the two-level IVF index primarily searches
embeddings linked to a small subset of first-level centroids,
most of these embeddings can be generated during the re-
trieval process itself. This strategy avoids the significant
memory overhead of storing all embeddings. As shown in
Figure 4, generating embeddings for clusters smaller than
24000 characters or approximately 8000 tokens is faster
than loading them from the storage. This indicates that on-
line embeddings generation can not only save memory but
also potentially improve retrieval latency. However, gener-
ating embedding for large cluster could also cause long tail
latency.

3

First-level IndexSecond-level IndexStored EmbeddingData ChunksData ChunkIncoming Query Embedding➊ Lookup First-level ➋ Lookup Index➍ Retrieve DataSecond-levelEmbeddings➌ Search Second-levelIndexSteps TakenFigure 4. Embedding Generation Rate of different cluster size

Figure 5. Cluster Embedding Generation Cost of nq dataset

4. High-level Ideas

We present EdgeRAG, a memory-efficient RAG system
by selectively pruning second-level embeddings. Upon re-
ceiving an incoming query, EdgeRAG generates related
second-level embeddings during runtime. However, online
embedding generation presents several key challenges: (1)
High Latency Variability: Embedding generation time is in-
fluenced by data chunk size, leading to unpredictable latency.
(2) High Computational Cost: Generating embeddings is
computationally expensive. Next, we describe the high-level
ideas of EdgeRAG in this section.

4.1. Selective Index Storage

Pruning second-level embeddings reduces memory foot-
print, but shifts embedding generation from indexing to
retrieval. This can increase retrieval latency if generating
embeddings takes longer than accessing pre-computed ones.
Here we make several observations related to embedding
generation.

Figure 6. Timing breakdown of EdgeRAG Retrieval Process.

dings of smaller, more common clusters. An analysis of
queries across various datasets revealed a substantial degree
of overlap in the accessed clusters. This overlap is quanti-
fied in Table 2 through the chunk reuse ratio. The significant
reuse observed across all datasets implies that embeddings
for clusters associated with these frequently accessed data
chunks must be repeatedly generated. Therefore, EdgeRAG
also caches generated embeddings to avoid redundant com-
putation. Figure 6 shows the process of cluster embedding
cache hit ( 4 ).

Figure 5 presents the distribution of embedding genera-
tion times for various clusters within the nq datasets. The
majority of clusters exhibit generation latencies under 500
milliseconds. Nevertheless, a subset of clusters, albeit in-
frequent, may experience generation times exceeding 2 sec-
onds. This distribution highlights a ”tail-heavy” characteris-
tic, where a small proportion of clusters significantly impact
the overall retrieval time.

To optimize cache utilization, EdgeRAG strategically avoids
caching embeddings from smaller clusters with lower gen-
eration latencies. This approach balances cache hit rates
and overall latency. Caching all embeddings can lead to
low hit rates and high latency, while exclusively caching
expensive embeddings can improve hit rates but increase
overall latency. A carefully selected threshold prevents the
caching of low-cost embeddings, striking a balance between

To mitigate long-tail latency in large clusters, EdgeRAG
employs a hybrid approach. During the initial indexing
phase, clusters are profiled to estimate embedding genera-
tion latency. Clusters exceeding the latency threshold are
identified and their embeddings are precomputed and stored.
At query time, embeddings are retrieved from storage if
available ( 3 in Figure 6), bypassing the long latency of on-
line embeddings generation phase ( 2 in Figure 6). For clus-
ters not precomputed, embeddings are generated in flight.
Algorithm 1 illustrates our Selective Index Storage.

4.2. Adaptive Cost-Aware Caching

Algorithm 1 Selective Index Storage

DataEmbeddings = embed(Datachunks)
Centroids = cluster(Embeddings)
for DataEmbedding in DataEmbeddings do

Centroid = Centroids.search(DataEmbedding)
Centroid.add(DataEmbedding)

end for
for Centroid in Centroids do

// Compute Cluster’s Embedding Gen. Latency
Centroid.GenLatency
=SUM(len(Centroid.Datachunks))/GenRate
if Centroid.GenLatency > SLO then

Centroid.saveEmbeddings()

Beyond the latency challenges presented by generating large
cluster embeddings, we notice frequent reuse for embed-

end if
end for

4

Time❶ Oﬄine IVF❷ Generate EmbeddingsQuery EmbedQuery EmbedFirst-level Look upQuery EmbedPreﬁll❸ Load EmbeddingsQuery Embed❹ Embedding Cache HitTime to First Token (TTFT)Second-level Look upFirst-level Look upPreﬁllSecond-level GenerateSecond-level Look upFirst-level Look upLoad EmbeddingsSecond-level Look upFirst-level Look upCache HitSecond-level Look upPreﬁllPreﬁllTable 2. Evaluated datasets.

Dataset

Corpus # Records Embeddings Unique Access Total Access Reuse Ratio Fit in Dev. Mem

scidocs (Cohan et al., 2020)
fiqa (Maia et al., 2018)
quora (Quora)
nq (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019)
hotpotqa (Thorne et al., 2018)
fever (Yang et al., 2018)

86 MB
130 MB
641 MB
4.6 GB
11 GB
7.5 GB

3.6 k
25 k
523 k
2.68 M
5.42 M
5.23 M

113 MB
217 MB
1.5 GB
8.3 GB
15.4 GB
18.5 GB

1157
2974
15672
8186
15519
5783

2000
13286
30000
10235
22098
13922

1.73
4.47
1.91
1.25
1.42
2.41

✓
✓
✓
✗
✗
✗

Algorithm 2 Cost-aware Least-Frequently Used Replace-
ment Policy

Incoming cache access with cluster index i
cluster = Cache.search(i)
if exist(cluster) then

cluster.counter + +

else

// Get Weighted Least Frequently Used Cluster
minCost = MAXVALUE, evictClusterIndex = −1
for cluster in Cache do

if cluster.genLatency × cluster.counter < maxCost
then

minCost = cluster.genLatency × cluster.counter
evictClusterIndex = cluster.index

end if
end for
cache.delete(evictClusterIndex)
// Get data chunks and generate embeddings
dataChunks = getDataChunks(i)
embeddings = embed(dataChunks)
cache.insert(index = i, embeddings)

end if
// Update Counters
for cluster in Cache do

cluster.counter = cluster.counter × decayFactor

end for

Algorithm 3 Minimum Latency Caching Threshold

MinimumLatencyCachingThreshold = 0 // Initialize
for each Query do

if embedCacheMiss = True then

if movAvgLatency < lastLatency then

MinimumLatencyCachingThreshold + +

end if

else

MinimumLatencyCachingThreshold − −

end if
movAvgLatency = (1 − α) × movAvgLatency + α ×
lastLatency

end for

Figure 7. Retrieval Latency and Cache Hit rate with different Min-
imum Caching Threshold of fever dataset.

5. EdgeRAG System

5.1. Overview

the two.

To achieve this, EdgeRAG evicts and prevents caching of
cluster embeddings whose generation latency falls below a
dynamically adjusted Minimum Latency Caching Thresh-
old. Algorithm 3 details how this threshold is adjusted.
Initially, the threshold is set to 0, effectively caching all
cluster embeddings. Subsequently, EdgeRAG gradually in-
creases the threshold while continuously monitoring cache
hit rates and the moving average of retrieval latency. If a
cache miss occurs, and the current retrieval latency is lower
than the moving average, the threshold is further increased.
Conversely, if a cache miss does not occur, the threshold
is decreased. This adaptive mechanism ensures that the
cache prioritizes embeddings from clusters with significant
generation costs to improve the overall performance gains.

EdgeRAG index is a two-level indexing system that exploits
memory efficiency and online computation. EdgeRAG in-
dex is based on the traditional two-level Inverted File (IVF)
Index. The first level, always residing in memory, stores
cluster centroids and references to the second level index.
The second level stores the references to the text chunks, and
the embedding generation latency of all data chunks. How-
ever, instead of storing all text chunk embeddings, the em-
beddings are pruned and EdgeRAG generates them online
during the retrieval process, only indexes of costly clusters
are stored (see Section 4.1). To optimize performance and
reduce latency, EdgeRAG employs a selective caching strat-
egy for embeddings generated during the retrieval process
(see Section 4.2). The system prioritizes caching expensive
embeddings, where cache hits yield significant performance
gains. Embeddings that can be regenerated quickly without

5

Figure 8. EdgeRAG Indexing Process

Figure 9. EdgeRAG Retrieval Process

compromising service-level objectives (SLOs) are avoided
to make room for those more expensive embeddings.

5.2. EdgeRAG Indexing

EdgeRAG employs an indexing process similar to the In-
verted File Index (IVF). Figure 8 illustrates EdgeRAG in-
dexing process. Initially, the text corpus is segmented into
smaller data chunks (step 1 ), and embeddings are gener-
ated for each chunk (step 2 ). These embeddings are then
clustered (step 3 ), and the clusters’ centroids are stored in
the first-level index (step 4 ). Then associated data chunks’
embeddings are assigned to their respective clusters (step 5 )
and references to the corresponding data chunks are stored
(step 6 ). Unlike traditional IVF, where all data embeddings
are retained, EdgeRAG calculates the computational cost of
generating embeddings for each data chunk within a clus-
ter. If this cost exceeds a predefined threshold (the Service
Level Objective, or SLO), the embeddings of the whole data
chunk are stored (step 7 ). Otherwise, the embeddings are
discarded to optimize storage.

5.3. EdgeRAG Retrieval

As mentioned in Section 4, EdgeRAG incorporates both
heavy cluster embedding loading and embedding caching.
Figure 9 shows EdgeRAG retrieval process. EdgeRAG
first identifies the most similar centroid cluster to the query
embedding (Step 1 ). It then checks if pre-computed em-
beddings exist for this cluster (Step 2 ). If so, EdgeRAG
searches for stored embeddings (Step 3 ) and these embed-
dings are loaded (Step 5 ). If pre-computed embeddings
are unavailable, EdgeRAG looks up the embedding cache
(Step 4 ). If the cache hits, EdgeRAG loads the embedding
from the cache and retrieves related data chunks (Step 5 ).
If the cache misses, EdgeRAG retrieves all associated data
chunks in the cluster, regenerates the embeddings, and up-
dates the cache (Step 4b) before loading the embedding
(Step 5 ). EdgeRAG then looks up for the closest matching
embedding and retrieves associated data chunks (Step 6 ).

5.4. EdgeRAG Insertion and Removal

The EdgeRAG insertion process mirrors the initial index-
ing process. However, instead of clustering newly added
embeddings, EdgeRAG identifies the existing cluster with

Table 3. Evaluation Platform.
Evaluation Hardware

CPU
GPU

Power Limit
DRAM
Storage

Cortex A78AE, 1.2 GHz, 6-core
Ampere, 1024 CUDA cores,
32 Tensor cores, 625 MHz
15 W
8 GiB LPDDR5-4250
512 GB SD Card, UHS-I

Software Configuration

LlamaIndex v0.11.18

RAG Framework
Vector Store Engine FAISS 1.7.4
LLM Engine
Embedding Model
Generation Model
System Software

NanoLLM 24.6
gte-base-en-v1.5 (Dim=768)
Sheared-LLaMA-2.7B
Jetpack 6.0

the nearest centroid embedding. The index associated with
this cluster is then updated. If the computational cost of the
updated cluster’s embeddings exceeds the SLO, EdgeRAG
regenerates and stores its embeddings. In extreme cases
where a cluster becomes excessively large, it is split into
smaller clusters, and the newly created cluster is added to the
first-level index. To remove data chunks, EdgeRAG first lo-
cates the corresponding cluster, then removes the associated
embeddings, and the cluster index is subsequently updated.
If the computational latency of generating the embedding of
the cluster falls below the Service Level Objective (SLO),
the entire cluster’s embedding can be eliminated. In cases
where a cluster becomes too small, it may be merged with
a neighboring cluster. This removal process can be per-
formed asynchronously, as leaving the cluster small has no
immediate adverse impact on retrieval latency.

6. Evaluation

6.1. System Setup

We evaluate EdgeRAG on an Nvidia Jetson Orin Nano eval-
uation kit. We leverage Llamaindex (Liu, 2022) as our RAG
framework and FAISS (Douze et al., 2024) as our vector
store. NanoLLM (Franklin) powers our LLM engine, utiliz-
ing Sheared LLaMA-2.7B (Xia et al., 2023) for generation.
We employ gte-base-en-v1.5 (Li et al., 2023) as our embed-
ding model. Table 3 provides a detailed overview of our
evaluation setup and associated system software.

6

DocumentNodesFirst-level Index❶ Preprocess❷ GenerateEmbeddingVector EmbeddingsClusterCentroids❸ Clustering➍ Insert Centroids➎ Look up CentroidsSecond-level Index❻ CreateIndexSecond-level Embeddings➐ Store EmbeddingFirst-level Index➊SearchStoredSecond-level IndexQuery Embedding❺ Load EmbeddingsCentroidEmbeddings Index❷LookupNodes➍ Lookup CacheEmbedding CacheVector Embeddings4c Miss, Gen. Embedding4b➌Search Stored EmbeddingsText Corpus❺ Load Embeddings➏Retrieve6.2. Methodology

We evaluate EdgeRAG against five distinct configurations:
a linear-search-based flat index, a two-level IVF index with
precomputed cluster embeddings, a two-level index with
online cluster embedding generation, a two-level index with
online cluster embedding generation and large cluster load-
ing from storage, and a two-level index with online clus-
ter embedding generation, large cluster loading from disk,
and caching (EdgeRAG). Table 4 shows different evalu-
ated Index configurations. For configurations utilizing the
two-level IVF index, the embedding clustering process, per-
formed using FAISS K-means with 20 iterations, is pre-
computed and shared across all four configurations.

Table 4. Evaluated Index Configurations.

Index configuration

Embeddings location

Level 1 Level 2

Flat
IVF
IVF+Embed. Gen.
IVF+Embed. Gen.+Load Memory Storage (Partial)
EdgeRAG

Memory N/A
Memory Memory
Memory -

Memory Storage + Memory

To address the known precision and recall trade-offs inherent
to IVF-based indexing methods (Sivic & Zisserman, 2003),
we optimize the retrieval hyperparameters, specifically the
number of cluster probes and retrieved data chunks. This op-
timization is aimed at normalizing the recall metric to match
that of the flat index baseline (Chen et al., 2024). We eval-
uate EdgeRAG on six datasets from the BEIR benchmark
suite (Thakur et al., 2021). Table 2 provides a breakdown
of the corpus size, number of data records, and total embed-
ding size for each dataset. Note that three of the workloads:
nq, hotpotqa, and fever have embedding footprints larger
than the memory capacity of our platform. Therefore, it is
impossible for the whole embedding database to fit into the
memory. We set the retrieval SLO similar to those in LLM
serving systems (Kakolyris et al., 2024; Aminabadi et al.,
2022): 1 second for smaller scidocs, fiqa and quora datasets
and 1.5 seconds for larger nq, hotpotqa and fever datasets.

6.3. Results

6.3.1. RETRIEVAL QUALITY EVALUATION

First, we evaluate the retrieval quality using the BEIR bench-
mark. We concentrate on Flat and two-level IVF indexes, as
EdgeRAG, which optimizes the IVF index, produces iden-
tical retrieval results to the two-level IVF index. Figure 10
presents the precision and recall of different workloads. The
results demonstrate a trade-off between precision and recall
in two-level indexing schemes. While increasing the num-
ber of retrieved data chunks improves recall by including
more relevant data, it also introduces more irrelevant data

Figure 10. BEIR Evaluation Scores

Figure 11. LLM Generation Evaluation Scores.

chunks, leading to a decrease in precision.

6.3.2. GENERATION QUALITY EVALUATION

As mentioned in the previous section, IVF-based EdgeRAG
exploits a precision-latency trade-off, prioritizing recall over
precision. To investigate the potential benefits of prioritiz-
ing recall, we compare IVF-based EdgeRAG to a Flat index
baseline. We employ a GPT-4o LLM (OpenAI) as an evalu-
ator to assess generation quality across various datasets. As
shown in Figure 11, while two-level IVF indexing schemes
may exhibit lower precision, they can still achieve high-
quality generation. This suggests that the generation model
is capable of filtering out irrelevant information and lever-
aging only the most pertinent details for output generation.

6.3.3. RETRIEVAL TAIL LATENCY ANALYSIS

In this section, we evaluate the tail latency of different
EdgeRAG’s optimizations. Figure 12 illustrates the latency
distribution of EdgeRAG’s various optimizations for nq

Figure 12. Retrieval Latency distribution with different optimiza-
tion.

7

Figure 13. Retrieval and First Token Latency.

dataset. The baseline IVF index, while achieving low la-
tency for most queries, exhibits an extreme long tail latency,
with the 95th percentile exceeding the median by over 64×.
This behavior stems from memory thrashing when accessing
paged-out cluster embeddings.

The embedding generation configuration significantly im-
proves latency by eliminating memory thrashing through
embedding pruning. This results in a more than 4× reduc-
tion in 95th percentile latency compared to the IVF baseline.
Further optimizing with large cluster loading from storage
yields another 2× tail latency reduction. Finally, caching
eliminates redundant embedding computation, leading to
significant overall latency reduction. While EdgeRAG prior-
itizes resource efficiency to meet retrieval SLOs, allocating
more resources such as allocating more cache capacity could
unlock even greater latency improvement.

6.3.4. END-TO-END LATENCY

In this section, we evaluate the end-to-end latency of a query.
We use Time-to-First-Token (TTFT) as an evaluation met-
ric. The TTFT consists of retrieval latency which includes
vector similarity search, and prefill which is the time LLM
takes to generate the first output token after it receives the
prompt. We exclude Total Generation Time and Time-Per-
Output-Token metrics as they are determined by the LLM’s
decoding rate, which is not optimized by EdgeRAG.

We then compare the latency of all five configurations (Table
4). For the two smallest datasets: scidocs and fiqa, where the
entire embedding dataset can fit into memory, the online em-
bedding generation scheme without caching exhibits higher
retrieval latency compared to both Flat and baseline pre-
generated Two-level indexes. This is because in-memory
operations, even linear searches, can be executed very effi-
ciently in this scenario. For the Quora dataset, where the
total embedding size nearly exceeds memory capacity, we
observe that increasing the number of embeddings signif-
icantly degrades the performance of the Flat Index due to
the overhead of linear search operations. For large datasets
like nq, hotpotqa, and fever, where the total embedding size
significantly exceeds memory capacity, the baseline two-
level IVF index suffers from increased retrieval latency and
first token generation latency. This is due to the combined

effects of memory thrashing during large index access and
the eviction of the generation model from memory, leading
to slower search and longer generation times.

In contrast, the EdgeRAG index, with and without heavy
cluster loading and caching, remains within memory con-
straints and maintains low first token generation latency.
However, for datasets with imbalanced, tail-heavy, and large
clusters like Fever, the online cluster embedding generation
process can introduce significant latency. Persisting heavy-
tail cluster embeddings and employing caching can mitigate
this issue by reducing tail latency and avoiding redundant
embedding generation. This significantly improves over-
all retrieval latency 1.8 × on average while caching only
utilizes an additional 7 % of system memory on top of a
two-level online embedding generation scheme.

7. Discussion

Limited Memory Capacity of Edge Systems While
some modern edge devices, such as upcoming mobile de-
vices (One), boast substantial memory capacity, memory
capacity still remains a major bottleneck for supporting
large-scale datasets. EdgeRAG efficiently prunes the major-
ity of second-level embeddings, enabling effective utiliza-
tion of large memory capacities to support larger datasets
with more embedding footprints or more powerful LLMs
for enhanced response quality.

Integration with other RAG systems
In this work, we
demonstrate EdgeRAG’s effectiveness on a basic RAG sys-
tem using text corpus data. While more advanced RAG sys-
tems may employ more sophisticated retrieval techniques or
support diverse data types (multimodal), those techniques
still rely on vector similarity search (Chen et al., 2022; Lin
& Byrne, 2022). As such, these systems can also benefit
from EdgeRAG’s optimizations.

Exploiting Hardware Accelerator Modern edge devices
commonly integrate multiple hardware accelerators within
their System on Chip (Gupta, 2021; IPh). One of those is
the Neural Processing Unit (NPU) which enables efficient
processing of deep learning tasks. EdgeRAG can leverage
these NPUs in several ways: 1. Enhance embedding gen-
eration throughput by harnessing the NPU’s high through-
put. 2. Offloading the embedding model’s processing to
the NPU—frees up the GPU or CPU for other tasks. This
enables pipelining or parallelization of operations such as
embedding generation, vector similarity search, and LLM
prefill.

8

8. Conclusion

In this work, we propose EdgeRAG, a novel RAG system de-
signed to address the memory limitations of edge platforms.
EdgeRAG optimizes the two-level IVF index by pruning
unnecessary second-level embeddings, selectively storing or
regenerating them during execution, and caching generated
embeddings to minimize redundant computations. This ap-
proach enables efficient RAG applications on datasets that
exceed available memory, while preserving low retrieval
latency and without compromising generation quality. Our
evaluation results show that EdgeRAG improves retrieval
latency by 1.22× on average and by a substantial 3.69× for
large datasets that cannot fit in the memory.

References

URL

https://support.apple.com/en-us/

121029.

URL https://www.oneplus.com/us/launch/13.

Jan 2024.

URL https://www.samsung.com/

ae/support/mobile-devices/what-are-
the-s24-external-memory-limits-
and-memory-sizes-of-different-s24-
variants/.

Aminabadi, R. Y., Rajbhandari, S., Awan, A. A., Li, C.,
Li, D., Zheng, E., Ruwase, O., Smith, S., Zhang, M.,
Rasley, J., et al. Deepspeed-inference: enabling efficient
inference of transformer models at unprecedented scale.
In SC22: International Conference for High Performance
Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, pp. 1–15.
IEEE, 2022.

Chen, Q., Geng, X., Rosset, C., Buractaon, C., Lu, J., Shen,
T., Zhou, K., Xiong, C., Gong, Y., Bennett, P., et al. Ms
marco web search: a large-scale information-rich web
dataset with millions of real click labels. In Companion
Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2024, pp.
292–301, 2024.

Chen, W., Hu, H., Chen, X., Verga, P., and Cohen, W. W.
Murag: Multimodal retrieval-augmented generator for
open question answering over images and text. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2210.02928, 2022.

Cohan, A., Feldman, S., Beltagy, I., Downey, D., and Weld,
D. S. Specter: Document-level representation learning
using citation-informed transformers. In ACL, 2020.

Douze, M., Guzhva, A., Deng, C., Johnson, J., Szilvasy, G.,
Mazar´e, P.-E., Lomeli, M., Hosseini, L., and J´egou, H.
The faiss library. 2024.

Franklin, D. Nanollm: Optimized local inference for
llms. URL https://github.com/dusty-nv/
NanoLLM.

Google. Google assistant, 2024. URL https://

assistant.google.com/.

Gupta, M.

Google tensor is a milestone for ma-
Google, October 2021.
URL

chine learning.
https://blog.google/products/pixel/
introducing-google-tensor/.

Kakolyris, A. K., Masouros, D., Xydis, S., and Soudris,
D. Slo-aware gpu dvfs for energy-efficient llm inference
serving. IEEE Computer Architecture Letters, 2024.

Kwiatkowski, T., Palomaki, J., Redfield, O., Collins, M.,
Parikh, A., Alberti, C., Epstein, D., Polosukhin, I., Devlin,
J., Lee, K., Toutanova, K., Jones, L., Kelcey, M., Chang,
M.-W., Dai, A. M., Uszkoreit, J., Le, Q., and Petrov, S.
Natural questions: A benchmark for question answering
research. Transactions of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, 7:452–466, 2019. doi: 10.1162/
tacl a 00276. URL https://aclanthology.org/
Q19-1026.

Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V.,
Goyal, N., K¨uttler, H., Lewis, M., Yih, W.-t., Rockt¨aschel,
T., et al. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 33:9459–9474, 2020.

Li, Z., Zhang, X., Zhang, Y., Long, D., Xie, P., and
Zhang, M. Towards general text embeddings with
multi-stage contrastive learning, 2023. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2308.03281.

Lin, W. and Byrne, B. Retrieval augmented visual ques-
tion answering with outside knowledge. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.03809, 2022.

Liu, J.

LlamaIndex, 11 2022.

URL https://

github.com/jerryjliu/llama index.

Maia, M., Handschuh, S., Freitas, A., Davis, B., McDermott,
R., Zarrouk, M., and Balahur, A. Www’18 open chal-
lenge: Financial opinion mining and question answering.
In Companion Proceedings of the The Web Conference
2018, WWW ’18, pp. 1941–1942, Republic and Canton
of Geneva, CHE, 2018. International World Wide Web
Conferences Steering Committee. ISBN 9781450356404.
doi: 10.1145/3184558.3192301. URL https://
doi.org/10.1145/3184558.3192301.

Microsoft. Microsoft Copilot: Your AI companion. URL

https://copilot.microsoft.com/.

9

Nvidia.

URL https://images.nvidia.com/

content/Solutions/data-center/vgpu-
L40-datasheet.pdf.

NVIDIA.

NVIDIA Jetson Orin.
//www.nvidia.com/en-us/autonomous-
machines/embedded-systems/jetson-
orin/.

URL https:

dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question an-
In Riloff, E., Chiang, D., Hockenmaier, J.,
swering.
and Tsujii, J. (eds.), Proceedings of the 2018 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-
cessing, pp. 2369–2380, Brussels, Belgium, October-
November 2018. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D18-1259. URL https:
//aclanthology.org/D18-1259.

OpenAI.

URL https://openai.com/index/

hello-gpt-4o/.

Quora.

URL https://quoradata.quora.com/
First-Quora-Dataset-Release-Question-
Pairs.

Saad-Falcon, J., Khattab, O., Potts, C., and Zaharia,
M. Ares: An automated evaluation framework for
retrieval-augmented generation systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.09476, 2023.

Sivic and Zisserman. Video google: a text retrieval approach
to object matching in videos. In Proceedings Ninth IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 1470–
1477 vol.2, 2003. doi: 10.1109/ICCV.2003.1238663.

Thakur, N., Reimers, N., R¨uckl´e, A., Srivastava, A.,
and Gurevych, I. BEIR: A heterogeneous benchmark
for zero-shot evaluation of information retrieval mod-
In Thirty-fifth Conference on Neural Information
els.
Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track
(Round 2), 2021. URL https://openreview.net/
forum?id=wCu6T5xFjeJ.

Thorne, J., Vlachos, A., Christodoulopoulos, C., and Mit-
tal, A. FEVER: a large-scale dataset for fact extrac-
In Walker, M., Ji, H., and
tion and VERification.
Stent, A. (eds.), Proceedings of the 2018 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technolo-
gies, Volume 1 (Long Papers), pp. 809–819, New Or-
leans, Louisiana, June 2018. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N18-1074. URL
https://aclanthology.org/N18-1074.

Wiens, K. More modular than ever before:
16 pro and pro max teardown, Sep 2024.
https://www.ifixit.com/News/100693/
more-modular-than-ever-before-iphone-
16-pro-and-pro-max-teardown.

Iphone
URL

Xia, M., Gao, T., Zeng, Z., and Chen, D. Sheared llama:
Accelerating language model pre-training via structured
pruning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06694, 2023.

Yang, Z., Qi, P., Zhang, S., Bengio, Y., Cohen, W.,
Salakhutdinov, R., and Manning, C. D. HotpotQA: A

10