5
2
0
2

n
a
J

2
2

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

2
v
1
9
2
9
1
.
2
1
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

RAG with Differential Privacy

Nicolas Grislain

December 5, 2024

Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as the dominant
technique to provide Large Language Models (LLM) with fresh and relevant
context, mitigating the risk of hallucinations and improving the overall quality
of responses in environments with large and fast moving knowledge bases.
However, the integration of external documents into the generation process
raises significant privacy concerns. Indeed, when added to a prompt, it is not
possible to guarantee a response will not inadvertently expose confidential
data, leading to potential breaches of privacy and ethical dilemmas. This paper
explores a practical solution to this problem suitable to general knowledge
extraction from personal data. It shows differentially private token generation
is a viable approach to private RAG.

Introduction

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG, (Lewis et al. 2021)) has become a popular
approach to enhance the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) by supplying
them with up-to-date and pertinent information. This method is particularly valuable
in environments where knowledge bases are large and rapidly evolving, such as news
websites, social media platforms, or scientific research databases. By integrating
fresh context, RAG helps mitigate the risk of “hallucinations”—instances where
the model generates plausible but factually incorrect information—and significantly
improves the overall quality and relevance of the responses generated by the LLM.

However, incorporating external documents into the generation process introduces
substantial privacy concerns. When these documents are included in the input
prompt for the LLM, there is no foolproof way to ensure that the generated response
will not accidentally reveal sensitive or confidential data (Qi et al. 2024). This
potential for inadvertent data exposure can lead to serious breaches of privacy and
presents significant ethical challenges. For instance, if an LLM is used in a healthcare
setting and it accidentally includes patient information from an external document
in its response, it could violate patient confidentiality and legal regulations.

This paper describes a practical solution (DP-RAG) aimed at addressing these
privacy concerns with Differential Privacy (DP). The solution is based on two pillars:

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
• A method to collect documents related to the question in a way that does not

prevent its output to be used in a DP mechanism.

• A method to use the collected documents to prompt a LLM and produce a

response with DP guarantees.

The paper describes also some empirical tests and shows that DP-RAG is most
effective in context where enough documents give elements of response.

Related Work

In general there are two families of approaches to add new knowledge to an LLM. The
first is Fine Tunning (FT) and the other is Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG).
In both these approaches, adding privacy can be done, through simple heuristics
with human validation such as masking or using a systematic and principle-based
approach such as Differential Privacy.

Private Fine-Tuning

A straightforward approach to adding knowledge to an existing LLM is to continue
its training with the new knowledge, to Fine Tune (FT) it. However, this raises
challenges when dealing with private data, as LLMs tend to memorize training data.
(see (Shokri et al. 2017) or (Carlini et al. 2021)).

To mitigate this privacy risk, it is possible to redact sensitive content prior to the
FT process (aka. masking), but this operation is not very reliable and requires
judgment on what should be redacted. This is a difficult manual operation based
on the perceived sensitivity of each field and how it can be used to re-identify an
individual, especially when combined with other publicly available data. Overall, it
is very easy to get wrong; leaning too much on the side of prudence can yield useless
data, while trying to optimize utility may result in leaking sensitive information.

A solution to this problem is to leverage Differential Privacy, a theoretical framework
enabling the computation of aggregates with formal privacy garantees (See (Dwork,
Roth, et al. 2014)).

The most common approache to Private LLM FT is to use Differentially-Private-
Stochastic-Gradient-Descent (DP-SGD, see (Abadi et al. 2016) and (Ponomareva et
al. 2023)). DP-SGD is about clipping gradients and adding them some noise while
running your ordinary SGD (or standard variants such as Adam, etc.). This method
requires the data to be organized per privacy unit (typically a privacy unit will be a
user). Every training example should belong to one and only one privacy unit1.

But, when new documents are frequently added to the private knowledge base FT
may not be the best approach.

1Note that observations (examples) can be grouped into composite observations if one user

contributes to many observations.

2

Private RAG

When FT is not the best approach to adding new knowledge and RAG would be
preferred, DP-FT cannot help with privacy. In these cases, DP can still be leveraged
in different ways. A straightforward approach to DP RAG is to generate synthetic
documents with differential privacy out of the private knowledge base and then
retrieve documents from this synthetic knowledge base instead of the private one.
Another approach is to generate the LLM response in a DP way.

The approach of generating synthetic documents usable for RAG in privacy-sensitive
contexts has been explored by (Zeng et al. 2024) but without DP guarantees. There
are three main approaches to the problem of generating DP Synthetic Data (SD):

• Fine-Tuning a pre-trained generative model with DP to generate synthetic

documents.

• Use some form of automated prompt tuning to generate synthetic prompts or

context documents.

• And use DP aggregated generation.

Fine-Tuning a pre-trained generative model with DP can be done with DP-SGD
((Abadi et al. 2016) and (Ponomareva et al. 2023)) as mentioned above. An
application to synthetic text generation is described there: (Yue et al. 2023).
This method is technically complex, as, DP-SGD can be challenging to implement
efficiently (Bu et al. 2023).

In (Hong et al. 2024), the authors use an automated prompt tuning technique
developed in (Sordoni et al. 2023) and (Zhou et al. 2023) and make it differentially
private. From the evaluations presented, it seems to compare favorably to DP-FT
synthetic data approaches. Similar methods, based on DP-automated prompt tuning
are exposed in (Lin et al. 2024) for images and (Xie et al. 2024) for text.

A last approach to generating synthetic data is based on DP aggregation of
data.(Lebensold et al. 2024) or (Wu et al. 2023) show how to aggregate images or
text in their embedding space (aka. Embedding Space Aggregation). Aggregating
data privately is also the approach of (Tang et al. 2024), but they do it at the token
level.

This last method greatly inspired the approach described in this document, though
not for SD, but to directly generate RAG output from private documents.

DP-RAG

To overcome the limitations of DP FT or SD-based RAG, we developed and tested
DP-RAG: a novel approach, build upon recent works on DP In-Context Learning
(ICL) such as (Wu et al. 2023) and particularly (Tang et al. 2024).

• Contrary to (Wu et al. 2023), we aggregate outputs token by token.
• Our token aggregation method is different from both methods exposed in:

(Tang et al. 2024) (Gaussian and Report Noisy Max).

3

• Because we implement the full RAG system, we developed a method to collect
the top-k most similar documents in a way that does not jeopardize the
possibility to run a DP mechanism on them.

Overview of DP-RAG

DP-RAG is made of two main components:

• A method to collect documents related to the question in a way that does not

prevent its output to be used in a DP mechanism.

• A method to use the collected documents to prompt a LLM and produce a

response with DP guarantees.

To understand the need for these components, let’s describe what RAG is usually
made of (see also (Lewis et al. 2021)) and introduce some notations (see Fig. 1).

A LLM: L is a function, taking some text, in the form of a sequence of tokens:
x = ⟨x1, x2, . . . , xn⟩ as input and outputting a probability distribution of the next
token xn+1 conditional on x:

L(s, x) = L(s, ⟨x1, x2, . . . , xn⟩) = Pr(xn+1 = s|L, x1, x2, . . . , xn)

We assume we have a set of N documents: D = {d1, d2, . . . , dN } ⊂ D containing
domain specific knowledge. These documents are also sequences of tokens: di =
⟨di,1, di,2, . . . , di,li⟩. We will, for simplicity, denote ⟨di, dj⟩ the concatenation of two
sequences of token, or a sequence and one token.

We also assume we have a similarity function S : D2 7→ [−1, 1] which value is
close to 1 when two documents are very similar, close to 0 when independent, and
close to -1 when conveying opposite meaning. In this work S will be the cosine
similarity between some embeddings of the documents, mapping them to some
adequate d-dimensional vector space: Rd:

S(di, dj) =

⟨E(di), E(dj)⟩
∥E(di)∥2∥E(dj)∥2

When receiving a query in the form of a sequence of token: q =
, the
similarity between q and each document is computed and the top k documents in
term of similarity are collected:

q1, q2, . . . , qnq

D

E

di1, di2, . . . dik with S(q, di1) ≥ S(q, di2) ≥ . . . ≥ S(q, diN )

Then a new query qRAG is built by concatenating the original query q with the top k
documents and other elements (the operation is denoted ⟨·, . . . , ·⟩RAG)

qRAG = ⟨q, di1, di2, . . . dik⟩RAG

The augmented query is then sent to the LLM to compute the distribution of the
next token (the first token of the response)

(cid:16)

L

r1, ⟨q, di1, di2, . . . dik⟩RAG

(cid:17)

4

The token is generated by sampling according to the distribution2 or by selecting
the mode of the distribution3.

The tokens of the response are then generated one by one in an auto-regressive
manner. The generated response tokens are concatenated to the input sequence:

(cid:16)

L

rj+1,

D
⟨q, di1, di2, . . . dik⟩RAG , r1, r2, . . . , rj

E(cid:17)

Figure 1: A broad picture of how RAG works

In the private variant of the problem (DP-RAG), we also assume the documents are
privacy sensitive, and make the additional assumption that each document relates
to only one individual that we call privacy unit (PU)4.

Differential Privacy and its application to RAG

A (randomized) algorithm: A provides (ϵ, δ)-Differential Privacy if and only if for
all event S and neighboring datasets D0 and D1, we have:

Pr[A(D0) ∈ S] ≤ eε Pr[A(D1) ∈ S] + δ

This means that for datasets that differ by one individual (i.e. neighboring datasets)
the algorithm’s outputs are statistically indistinguishable. This property guarantees
that no bit of information can reasonably be learned about an individual. See (Dwork,
Roth, et al. 2014) for a thorough introduction to DP.

The two main challenges to implementing RAG with DP guarantees (see Fig. 2)
consist in:

2or proportionally to some power 1/T of the distribution
3the most likely token or the limit when T goes to 0
4Such structuring of documents by privacy unit can sometime be achieved by cutting documents

and grouping all the content relative to one PU in one document.

5

Doc 1Doc 2Doc n-1Doc n…Large Language ModelKnowledge sources1.Question2.Retrieve top-k related documents3.Most relevant k documents are added to the prompt as context4.Enhanced prompt sent to LLM5.Relevant answer with contextual informationPromptEnhanced prompt12Response12PromptResponseEnhanced prompt12Only top-k most related documents are retrievedFigure 2: A broad picture of the main problems to overcome when considering DP
RAG

• aggregating the knowledge from many documents with DP,
• and, more subtly, selecting the most relevant documents without jeopardizing

our ability to apply a DP mechanism downstream.

Figure 3: In DP-RAG, k smaller queries are sent to the LLM, rather than a single
query (approximately) k times larger.

Privacy Unit Preserving Document Retrieval

As mentioned above, DP deals with the concept of neighboring datasets. For this
reason, it is convenient to assign each document to one and only one individual, or
privacy unity (PU). Adding or removing one PU, comes down to adding or removing

6

Doc 1Doc 2Doc n-1Doc n…Large Language ModelKnowledge sources1.Question2.Retrieve top-k related documents3.Most relevant k documents are added to the prompt as context4.Enhanced prompt sent to LLM5.Relevant answer with contextual informationPromptEnhanced prompt12Response12PromptResponseEnhanced prompt12Only top-k most related documents are retrievedTop-k aggregates some info about documentsThe response may contain private informationDoc 1Doc 2Doc n-1Doc n…Large Language ModelKnowledge sources1.Question2.Retrieve related documents with similarity scores above a threshold: τ, estimated with DP to output approximately the top k documents3.1 prompt per document4.Enhanced prompts sent to LLM5.Relevant answer with DP aggregated contextual informationPromptPrompt + docs+ DP tokensk1PromptDP Responseτ: Random DP thresholdkPrompt + docs+ DP tokens1…DP aggregated next tokenNext tokenone document. In this context, one should be careful with the selection of the top-k
most relevant documents. Indeed, when selecting the top-k documents, adding or
removing one document may affect the selection of other documents.

In DP-RAG, the similarity of each document with the query is computed:

s1, s2, . . . , sN = S(q, d1), S(q, d2), . . . , S(q, dN )

To estimate a threshold to select the top k documents with DP, we designed a utility
function to be plugged into an exponential mechanism (Dwork, Roth, et al. 2014)
(see Fig. 4).

Utop−k(τ ) : [0, 1] 7→ R = −

(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)

X

i

1[0,si](τ ) − k

(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)

Figure 4: The exponential mechanism for the top-k DP-threshold. For the sake of
clarity we chose a small number of documents: 30, and a large ϵ: 1

This top-k utility has sensitivity 1, we can sample a threshold τDP from the probability
density function:

τtop−k ∝ exp

!

 ϵUtop−k(τ )
2

It is easy to show τtop−k is ϵ-DP (see. (Dwork, Roth, et al. 2014)).

The DP top-k threshold τtop−k sampled from the exponential mechanism is then used
to select all the documents whose similarity is above τtop−k.

While this threshold, works well in practice, it selects a fixed number of documents
(~k). We may be interested in selecting fewer when the top scores are more concen-
trated on few documents (the query is selective), and select more when the scores are
evenly spread across many documents (the query has a low selectivity). To adjust to

7

this need, we designed a slightly different utility function:

Utop−p(τ ) : [0, 1] 7→ R = −

(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)

X

1[0,si](τ )w(si) − p X

i

i

(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
w(si)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)

with:

and similarly:

w(s) = exp

(cid:18)

α

s − smax
smax − smin

(cid:19)

∈ [0, 1] when α > 0

τtop−p ∝ exp

!

 ϵUtop−p(τ )
2

This utility function (see Fig. 5) is parametrized by α which contrasts the differences
in scores, and p which select the share of total document weight we want to select
with the mechanism.

Figure 5: The exponential mechanism for the top-p DP-threshold. For the sake of
clarity we chose a small number of documents: 30, and a large ϵ: 1

Once the τtop−p threshold is sampled with DP, incurring a small privacy loss, it is
safe to select the documents, the similarity scores of which, are above it. They are
then aggregated with DP in the DP ICL phase.

Differentially Private In-Context Learning

In DP ICL, instead of sampling the next token from a query enhanced with many
documents:

Lj+1(·) = L

(cid:16)

·,

D
⟨q, di1, di2, . . . dik⟩RAG , r1, r2, . . . , rj

E(cid:17)

8

we compute the distributions of the next token for many enhanced queries, each of
them with just one document:

Lj+1,i1(·) = L (·, ⟨⟨q, di1⟩RAG , r1, r2, . . . , rj⟩)
Lj+1,i2(·) = L (·, ⟨⟨q, di2⟩RAG , r1, r2, . . . , rj⟩)





Lj+1,ik(·) = L

...

(cid:16)

·,

D
⟨q, dik⟩RAG , r1, r2, . . . , rj

E(cid:17)

We also compute the distribution of the next token, with some public context:

Lj+1,pub(·) = L

(cid:16)

·,

D
⟨q, dpub⟩RAG , r1, r2, . . . , rj

E(cid:17)

Following (Tang et al. 2024), we sample a next token based on a DP aggregation of
the k + 1 distributions.

Contrary to (Tang et al. 2024) where they compare two mechanisms: Gaussian and
Report Noisy Max, and use a public prior with Reduce Vocab Publicly (RVP) we
introduce a different mechanism:

• We use an exponential mechanism with a utility aggregating transformed

log-probability vectors from all the enhanced queries.

• We do not use Reduce Vocab Publicly (RVP), but a soft version, consisting in
using the log-probabilities of a public response to boost or mute some tokens
in a soft way.

We sample the next token from an exponential mechanism where the utility is the
aggregation of some function: lclipped modulated by the log-probabilities associated
with the public query. The larger, the θ, the closer the response will be to the one
without the private documents. This replaces RVP from (Tang et al. 2024).
UICL(r) = θ · ln (Lj+1,pub(r)) + X

lclipped
j+1,ij (r)

j

In the previous expression lclipped is a clipped version of lcentered. lcentered is clipped to
bound its sensitivity (∞-norm) in the exponential mechanism to some C.

lclipped
j+1,ij (r) = lcentered
j+1,ij

(r) min


1,

C
(cid:12)
(cid:12)lcentered
(cid:12)
j+1,ij

(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(s)
(cid:12)





maxs

Where lcentered is a centered version of lnorm to minimize its ∞-norm without changing
its impact in the mechanism:

lcentered
j+1,ij

(r) = lnorm
j+1,ij

(r) −

maxs lnorm
j+1,ij

(s) + mins lnorm
j+1,ij

(s)

2

Where lnorm is a transformation of L putting more emphasis on the large values of L.

lnorm
j+1,ij

(r) =

exp

(cid:16)

h

α ·

ln Lj+1,ij (r) − ln maxs Lj+1,ij (s)

(cid:17)i

− 1

α

9

Indeed, for α = 1 we simply compute a scaled and shifted version of the probability:

lnorm
j+1,ij

(r) =

Lj+1,ij (r)
maxs Lj+1,ij (s)

− 1

for α very small, we compute the log-probabilities:

lnorm
j+1,ij

(r) ≈ ln Lj+1,ij (r) − ln max

s

Lj+1,ij (s)

and for α very large, we get an indicator function:

lnorm
j+1,ij

(r) ≈ 0 if r = argmaxsLj+1,ij (s) and − 1 elsewhere

After the utility is computed, the next token is sampled from:

r ∝ exp

!

 ϵUICL(r)
2C

In this formula, the larger the ϵ (privacy loss), or the smaller the clipping C the
closer we are to the most likely token.

The small (pure) privacy losses incurred during the retrieval phase and the ICL
phase are aggregated in a simple privacy accountant: github.com/google/differential-
privacy/tree/main/python/dp_accounting.

The code of DP-RAG is available on github.com/sarus-tech/dp-rag.

Evaluation

The DP-RAG algorithm, was tested on synthetic documents available on Huggingface
huggingface.co/datasets/sarus-tech/medical_dirichlet_phi3. The main benefit of
using synthetic data is to make sure the LLM used does not know anything about
the data a priori.

Here are a few examples documents (check the link above for more examples):

10

Patient Question

Doctor Response

I am Herman Schneider, and I’m grappling
with a range of health issues. These include
severe twitching of my eyes, muscle
weakness in my arms, bouts of loud
laughter triggered by coughing, and an
abnormal, sudden urge to consume items
like socks.

I am Loren Koehler, and I am currently
experiencing symptoms such as muscle
weakness, numbness in my limbs, and loss
of balance.

Ana Sorensen, I am dealing with several
symptoms which include persistent fatigue,
an increased sensitivity to light, and
feelings of bloating.

Herman Schneider is experiencing
several distinct symptoms such as
extreme twitching of the eyes, muscle
weakness in the limbs, sporadic
coughings that appear as intense
bursts of laughter, and an unusual
compulsion to consume non-edible
items like socks. The medical
professionals have pinpointed these
symptoms as indicative of a condition
known as Flumplenaxism. To
effectively address and manage these
manifestations, the recommended
course of action is administering
Gleeblorazine Injectibles.

Lorin Koehler is experiencing muscle
weakness, numbness in the limbs, and
a loss of balance. Based on these
symptoms, and considering that
Zorbilaxis is the diagnosed condition,
the prescribed treatment would be
Zorblasteron5.

Ana Sorensen, presenting with
symptoms such as Fatigue, Increased
Sensitivity to Light, and Bloating, has
been diagnosed with a condition
termed Snurfluxias. To address and
manage this condition, the
recommended course of action is to
administer treatments known as
Snurflozone Bites.

When a query: q, is submitted to DP-RAG, it is used in the Privacy Unit Preserving
Document Retrieval process, the retrieved documents are fed into the DP-ICL phase
of the algorithm. Here are a few examples of interactions with the DP-RAG engine.

11

Question (q)

DP-RAG Response (ϵ ≈ 5)

I am experiencing the following symptoms:
Severe eye twitching, Muscle weakness in
the arms, Coughing fits of loud laughter,
Sudden urge to eat socks. What is my
disease?

I am experiencing the following symptoms:
Muscle weakness, Numbness in limbs, Loss
of balance. What is my disease?

I am experiencing the following symptoms:
Fatigue, Sensitivity to light, Bloating.
What is my disease?

Based on the symptoms you’ve
described, it seems you may be
experiencing a condition similar to
Flumplenaxism, as mentioned in the
document. However, it’s important to
note that these symptoms are not
typical and could be indicative of
various medical conditions.

Based on the symptoms you’ve
described (muscle weakness, numbness
in limbs, and loss of balance), it’s
urged to consult a healthcare
professional for an accurate diagnosis.
The document you provided mentions
a condition called Zorbilaxis, which
is treated with Zorblasteron5.

Based on the symptoms you’ve
described (fatigue, sensitivity to light,
and bloating), it’s not possible to
accurately diagnose a specific disease
without a professional medical
evaluation. However, in the context
you provided, it seems like the
condition might be referred to as
“Snurfluxias”.

Because DP-RAG protects privacy by making sure a result does not depend on one
PU, it will, by design, censor every knowledge that is too specific about one individual.
To apprehend this idea, we tested systematically5 the accuracy of responses, as a
function of disease frequency in the documents (see Fig. 6).

With around 5000 documents and privacy parameters set to ϵ ≈ 5, and, δ = 1e − 3,
we got the result in Fig. 6.

The results show the accuracy becomes reasonable when at least 100 documents hold
a similar piece of information.

Conclusion

Overall DP-RAG, provides a viable approach to private RAG in contexts where
documents are organized by individual (e.g. Electronic Health Records financial

5See github.com/sarus-tech/dp-rag/blob/main/results/evaluation.json

12

Figure 6: DP-RAG accuracy as a function of knowledge specificity

13

statements) and where sufficiently many documents cover the question asked so that
no one individual has an impact on the response.

To improve the accuracy / privacy tradeoff, one can:

• Ask question with shorter responses (and limit the number of tokens generated).
• Make sure many documents are related to the question.
• Increase the impact of the public prior (θ) if some elements of the response are

public.

Bibliography

Abadi, Martin, Andy Chu, Ian Goodfellow, H. Brendan McMahan, Ilya Mironov,
Kunal Talwar, and Li Zhang. 2016. “Deep Learning with Differential Privacy.”
In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Commu-
nications Security. CCS’16. ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978318.
Bu, Zhiqi, Yu-Xiang Wang, Sheng Zha, and George Karypis. 2023. “Differentially
Private Optimization on Large Model at Small Cost.” In International Conference
on Machine Learning, 3192–3218. PMLR.

Carlini, Nicholas, Florian Tramèr, Eric Wallace, Matthew Jagielski, Ariel Herbert-
Voss, Katherine Lee, Adam Roberts, et al. 2021. “Extracting Training Data
from Large Language Models.” In 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 21), 2633–50. USENIX Association. https://www.usenix.org/conferenc
e/usenixsecurity21/presentation/carlini-extracting.

Dwork, Cynthia, Aaron Roth, et al. 2014. “The Algorithmic Foundations of
Differential Privacy.” Foundations and Trends® in Theoretical Computer Science
9 (3–4): 211–407.

Hong, Junyuan, Jiachen T. Wang, Chenhui Zhang, Zhangheng Li, Bo Li, and
Zhangyang Wang. 2024. “DP-OPT: Make Large Language Model Your Privacy-
Preserving Prompt Engineer.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03724.

Lebensold, Jonathan, Maziar Sanjabi, Pietro Astolfi, Adriana Romero-Soriano,
Kamalika Chaudhuri, Mike Rabbat, and Chuan Guo. 2024. “DP-RDM: Adapting
Diffusion Models to Private Domains Without Fine-Tuning.” https://arxiv.org/
abs/2403.14421.

Lewis, Patrick, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin,
Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, et al. 2021. “Retrieval-Augmented Generation
for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11401.

Lin, Zinan, Sivakanth Gopi, Janardhan Kulkarni, Harsha Nori, and Sergey Yekhanin.
2024. “Differentially Private Synthetic Data via Foundation Model APIs 1:
Images.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15560.

Ponomareva, Natalia, Hussein Hazimeh, Alex Kurakin, Zheng Xu, Carson Denison,
H. Brendan McMahan, Sergei Vassilvitskii, Steve Chien, and Abhradeep Guha
Thakurta. 2023. “How to DP-Fy ML: A Practical Guide to Machine Learning
with Differential Privacy.” Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 77 (July):
1113–1201. https://doi.org/10.1613/jair.1.14649.

Qi, Zhenting, Hanlin Zhang, Eric Xing, Sham Kakade, and Himabindu Lakkaraju.
2024. “Follow My Instruction and Spill the Beans: Scalable Data Extraction from

14

Retrieval-Augmented Generation Systems.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17840.
Shokri, Reza, Marco Stronati, Congzheng Song, and Vitaly Shmatikov. 2017. “Mem-
bership Inference Attacks Against Machine Learning Models.” In 2017 IEEE Sym-
posium on Security and Privacy (SP), 3–18. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2017.41.
Sordoni, Alessandro, Xingdi Yuan, Marc-Alexandre Côté, Matheus Pereira, Adam
Trischler, Ziang Xiao, Arian Hosseini, Friederike Niedtner, and Nicolas Le Roux.
2023. “Joint Prompt Optimization of Stacked LLMs Using Variational Inference.”
https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.12509.

Tang, Xinyu, Richard Shin, Huseyin A. Inan, Andre Manoel, Fatemehsadat
Mireshghallah, Zinan Lin, Sivakanth Gopi, Janardhan Kulkarni, and Robert
Sim. 2024. “Privacy-Preserving in-Context Learning with Differentially Private
Few-Shot Generation.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11765.

Wu, Tong, Ashwinee Panda, Jiachen T. Wang, and Prateek Mittal. 2023. “Privacy-
Preserving in-Context Learning for Large Language Models.” https://arxiv.org/
abs/2305.01639.

Xie, Chulin, Zinan Lin, Arturs Backurs, Sivakanth Gopi, Da Yu, Huseyin A Inan,
Harsha Nori, et al. 2024. “Differentially Private Synthetic Data via Foundation
Model APIs 2: Text.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01749.

Yue, Xiang, Huseyin A. Inan, Xuechen Li, Girish Kumar, Julia McAnallen, Hoda
Shajari, Huan Sun, David Levitan, and Robert Sim. 2023. “Synthetic Text
Generation with Differential Privacy: A Simple and Practical Recipe.” https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2210.14348.

Zeng, Shenglai, Jiankun Zhang, Pengfei He, Jie Ren, Tianqi Zheng, Hanqing Lu,
Han Xu, Hui Liu, Yue Xing, and Jiliang Tang. 2024. “Mitigating the Privacy
Issues in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) via Pure Synthetic Data.”
https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14773.

Zhou, Yongchao, Andrei Ioan Muresanu, Ziwen Han, Keiran Paster, Silviu Pitis,
Harris Chan, and Jimmy Ba. 2023. “Large Language Models Are Human-Level
Prompt Engineers.” https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.01910.

15