5
2
0
2

n
a
J

7
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
6
7
2
6
1
.
1
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

URAG: Implementing a Unified Hybrid RAG for
Precise Answers in University Admission
Chatbots – A Case Study at HCMUT

Long Nguyen[0009−0008−7488−4714] and Tho Quan[0000−0003−0467−6254]

1 URA Research Group, Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering, Ho Chi Minh
City University of Technology (HCMUT), Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
2 Vietnam National University Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
{long.nguyencse2023,qttho}@hcmut.edu.vn

Abstract. With the rapid advancement of Artificial Intelligence, partic-
ularly in Natural Language Processing, Large Language Models (LLMs)
have become pivotal in educational question-answering systems, espe-
cially university admission chatbots. Concepts such as Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) and other advanced techniques have been developed
to enhance these systems by integrating specific university data, enabling
LLMs to provide informed responses on admissions and academic coun-
seling. However, these enhanced RAG techniques often involve high op-
erational costs and require the training of complex, specialized mod-
ules, which poses challenges for practical deployment. Additionally, in
the educational context, it is crucial to provide accurate answers to pre-
vent misinformation, a task that LLM-based systems find challenging
without appropriate strategies and methods. In this paper, we intro-
duce the Unified RAG (URAG) Framework, a hybrid approach that
significantly improves the accuracy of responses, particularly for criti-
cal queries. Experimental results demonstrate that URAG enhances our
in-house, lightweight model to perform comparably to state-of-the-art
commercial models. Moreover, to validate its practical applicability, we
conducted a case study at our educational institution, which received
positive feedback and acclaim. This study not only proves the effective-
ness of URAG but also highlights its feasibility for real-world implemen-
tation in educational settings.

Keywords: Question-Answering Systems · Retrieval-Augmented Gen-
eration · University Admission Chatbots.

1

Introduction

Artificial Intelligence (AI) has become a fundamental component of modern
technological advancements, transforming industries across the board, including
education [1]. Among AI’s various applications, Natural Language Processing
(NLP) has proven particularly valuable in the development of chatbots aimed at
assisting with university admissions and providing comprehensive institutional

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Long Nguyen et al.

information [2]. These chatbots play an essential role in enhancing communica-
tion between universities and prospective students, ensuring that inquiries are
met with timely and accurate responses.

Recent breakthroughs in AI, such as the introduction of the Attention Mech-
anism [3] and the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs), have significantly
improved the performance of these educational chatbots [4]. LLMs, with their
ability to generate human-like text and perform complex tasks [5], offer users
a more interactive and dynamic experience. However, despite these advance-
ments, a critical challenge remains as LLM-based chatbots are prone to generat-
ing inaccurate or misleading responses, especially when handling specialized or
context-specific queries. This issue, commonly referred to as hallucination [6],
poses significant risks, particularly in high-stakes contexts like university ad-
missions, where the accuracy of information regarding application deadlines or
program details is paramount.

To mitigate these risks, the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) ap-
proach has emerged as a potential solution [7]. RAG combines retrieval-based
mechanisms with generative models, enabling chatbots to consult external sources
of information before generating responses. While this approach helps reduce
hallucinations and improves accuracy, early implementations of RAG have faced
limitations, such as noise in retrieval results, a disconnect between retrieval and
generation processes, and difficulties in managing longer contexts [8]. These lim-
itations can still result in inaccurate responses and hallucinations. Furthermore,
more advanced RAG systems [9,10,11,12], though promising, often introduce
greater complexity and operational costs, making their deployment in real-world
educational settings less feasible.

In response to these challenges, we propose the Unified RAG (URAG)
framework, specifically designed to improve lightweight LLMs for use in uni-
versity admission chatbots. URAG integrates the reliability of rule-based sys-
tems with the adaptability of RAG, creating a two-tiered approach. The first
tier leverages a comprehensive Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) system to
provide accurate responses to common queries, especially those involving sen-
sitive or critical information. If no match is found in the FAQ, the second tier
retrieves relevant documents from an augmented database and generates a re-
sponse through an LLM.

To enhance this process, we propose two key mechanisms, URAG-D for aug-
menting the original document database and URAG-F for generating an en-
hanced FAQ. These mechanisms not only enrich the database but also improve
the retrieval process in both tiers, as shown in Figure 1.

Our experiments highlight the effectiveness of URAG when paired with an
in-house developed Vietnamese lightweight LLM. We benchmarked URAG’s per-
formance against state-of-the-art (SOTA) commercial chatbots, including GPT-
4o3, Gemini 1.5 Pro4, and Claude 3.5 Sonnet5 - models renowned for their vast

3 https://openai.com/chatgpt/
4 https://gemini.google.com/
5 https://claude.ai/

URAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University Admission Chatbots

3

Fig. 1. The architecture of URAG framework illustrating the two-tiered approach for
improving LLM performance in university admission chatbots.

parameter scales, encompassing trillions of parameters and training on exten-
sive real-time data [13]. To further validate URAG’s practical application, we
integrated it into HCMUT Chatbot6, where it has since gained recognition for
its positive impact on university admissions at Ho Chi Minh City University of
Technology (HCMUT).

In summary, our contributions are as follows.

– We introduced URAG, a hybrid system that integrates rule-based and RAG
approaches to enhance the performance of lightweight LLMs tailored for
educational chatbots.

– We collected a real-world dataset of university admission questions from high
school students and conducted a comprehensive evaluation of URAG against
leading commercial chatbots, demonstrating its competitive performance.
– We successfully implemented URAG in a practical deployment at HCMUT,
showcasing its effectiveness through a functional product that continues to
address the university’s needs.

2 Related Work

2.1 Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)

RAG has become a widely adopted technique for building question-answering
(QA) systems using LLM. This approach is favored for its cost-efficiency and
ability to combine retrieval-based methods with the generative power of LLMs.
A typical RAG pipeline consists of two primary components, the Retriever and
the Generator, as shown in Figure 2. One of the earliest forms of RAG, termed
Naive RAG, gained popularity following the release of models like ChatGPT
[14].

6 https://www.ura.hcmut.edu.vn/bk-tvts/

Relevant documentsOriginalDocumentsURAG - F MechanismURAG - D MechanismAugmented DocumentsComprehensiveFAQTier 1: FAQ SearchTier 2: Document SearchContext:Query:Prompt TemplateGeneratorLLMIf Tier 2 failsReturn FAQ answerIf Tier 1 failsReturn generated answer+ DisclaimerInference PhasePreparation Phase4

Long Nguyen et al.

Fig. 2. An example of a typical RAG pipeline.

Naive RAG operates by replacing the user’s query with a prompt enriched by
documents retrieved through the Retriever, which is then fed into the Generator
(LLM) to generate the final output. This method, while straightforward, has
proven to be an effective baseline for many LLM-powered QA systems.

2.2 Strategies for Enhancing a RAG Pipeline

Naive RAG implementations, while effective and straightforward, face significant
limitations in complex QA systems, such as university admission chatbots [14].
To address these challenges, more sophisticated RAG pipelines have emerged,
with enhancements generally categorized into five key areas, such as input re-
finement, retriever improvements, generator optimization, result validation, and
overall pipeline enhancements [8].

Enhancing retrievers using structured data, like knowledge graphs, boosts
precision and reliability by leveraging the inherent relationships within the data
[15]. Techniques such as Graph RAG (GRAG) [16] employ graph topology, utiliz-
ing subgraph structures to improve information retrieval. However, maintaining
such structured databases is particularly challenging in dynamic fields like edu-
cation, where data is constantly evolving.

Further advancements in RAG pipelines include approaches like Self-Reflective
RAG (Self-RAG) [9], Corrective RAG (CRAG) [12], and Adaptive RAG [10].
These methods enrich inputs by selecting and supplementing relevant informa-
tion, often incorporating web searches before feeding the data into the LLM.
Additionally, these techniques can detect and correct hallucinations or inaccu-
racies, allowing for response regeneration to enhance accuracy. Another notable
approach, Speculative RAG [11], generates multiple response drafts by combin-
ing the query with relevant document clusters, processing them in parallel, and
selecting the best answer through evaluation.

Despite these improvements in accuracy, these advanced RAG techniques in-
troduce additional complexity. Iterative feedback loops required for response re-
finement lead to longer processing times and increased computational demands.
Although speculative execution aims to reduce latency, the need for separate
module training makes these sophisticated RAG models resource-intensive and
challenging to implement in practical educational settings.

What is URA?RetrieverWIKIPEDIAGenerator(LLM)Unlimited Research Group of AI (URA)Knowledge can be expanded & updated (new domain, news, etc.)Interpretability(reference to source)MemoryRetrieved documentsUnlimited Research Group of AI (URA) is a researchgroup at the Faculty of Computer Science andEngineering, Ho Chi Minh City University ofTechnology (HCMUT), Vietnam National University,Ho Chi Minh City (VNU-HCM).URAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University Admission Chatbots

5

2.3 Practical Approaches to University Admission Chatbots

University admission chatbots have become vital tools in educational settings,
providing immediate support to prospective students. Most of these systems
are built around two core components, namely Natural Language Understanding
(NLU) and Natural Language Generation (NLG). NLU processes like intent clas-
sification and entity recognition enable chatbots to interpret user queries, while
NLG generates responses through rule-based approaches, predefined scripts, or
machine learning techniques [17].

Many chatbots, such as those discussed in [18,19], use platforms like Rasa
[20], which offer robust tools for training NLU models and managing dialogues.
While these systems effectively handle frequently asked questions, they often
struggle with complex or out-of-scope queries that are beyond their training data.
To address these limitations, advanced models incorporate Sequence-to-Sequence
architectures with Attention Mechanisms [21] or simplified RAG structures fine-
tuned on domain-specific datasets [22,23], ensuring that responses are generated
continuously to maintain user engagement, even if they lack complete accuracy.
Additionally, some chatbots integrate third-party APIs like GPT-3.5 Turbo
[24,25], enhancing their capabilities but introducing significant concerns. These
integrations pose security risks due to external data handling [26] and lead to
high long-term costs, which can be unsustainable for many institutions.

Despite these advancements, relying heavily on LLMs still results in chal-
lenges, such as inaccuracies in responses to sensitive or context-specific queries.
Therefore, there is a pressing need for a streamlined solution that balances the
power of LLMs with efficient, lightweight designs and incorporates mechanisms
to ensure accuracy for critical responses. Such a solution should provide reli-
able performance tailored to the specific requirements of university admission
inquiries, addressing the gaps in current chatbot technologies.

3 URAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University

Admission Chatbots

University admission chatbots frequently encounter challenges in providing ac-
curate responses to common questions, particularly those involving critical de-
tails like admission requirements, deadlines, scores, and department codes. Such
information requires high precision, as inaccuracies can mislead prospective stu-
dents. Traditionally, human advisors rely on FAQ scripts to ensure consistency
and accuracy. When questions fall outside the FAQ’s coverage, advisors consult
additional documents to provide the correct information.

Inspired by this conventional advisory approach, we introduce the URAG
framework, a two-tiered architecture designed to emulate this method and sig-
nificantly improve chatbot performance.

3.1 Overview of URAG Architecture

URAG operates on a unified dual-tier system, depicted in Figure 3.

6

Long Nguyen et al.

Tier 1 This tier utilizes an enriched FAQ database that extensively mines and
integrates data from various text corpora with existing FAQs. The enrich-
ment of this database is automated through the URAG-F mechanism, en-
suring that the most common and critical inquiries receive direct and precise
responses.

Tier 2 If no suitable match is found in the first tier, the process advances to
the second tier. This tier searches within a document corpus that has been
augmented by the URAG-D mechanism. It mimics the traditional RAG pro-
cess by using a prompt template that guides the LLM to generate relevant
responses based on the retrieved documents.

Fallback If neither tier successfully retrieves the required information, the sys-
tem defaults to generating a response directly from the LLM, accompanied
by a disclaimer to manage user expectations about potential inaccuracies.

Fig. 3. Illustration of the URAG framework, highlighting the two-tiered approach.

The operational flow of the URAG framework is systematically outlined in

Algorithm 1, with key terms defined in Table 1.

3.2 The Truth Behind “Unified” in URAG Architecture

The URAG architecture unifies two key mechanisms during its preparatory phase
to optimize performance during deployment, as shown in Figure 4. A crucial
aspect of this process is the use of Chain-of-Thought (CoT) Prompting [27],
which enhances the reasoning capabilities of LLM-based components, enabling
them to generate reliable and contextually appropriate responses.

URAG-D Mechanism: Document Database Augmentation URAG-D
improves document retrieval by segmenting documents into coherent chunks and

Return the generated answerusing LLM with RAGSimilarity Search with ThresholdUserEmbedding Model Sentence Transformer: QueryQuestionIDAnswerTop QuestionIDAnswerTop AnswerTier 1: FAQ SearchTextIDTop TextIDTop GeneratorLLMSimilarity Search with ThresholdTier 2: Document SearchYesNoPromptGenerated Answer+ DisclaimerVector DatabaseRecord QuestionIDAnswerRecord QuestionIDAnswerRecord QuestionIDAnswerFAQ IndexDocument IndexRecord TextIDRecord TextIDRecord TextIDReturn the answer of the top relevant question in FAQ are the embeddingsof questions in the FAQFlow of Tier 1 Flow of Tier 2URAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University Admission Chatbots
Table 1. Notation

7

Symbol

Description

T
E : T → Rm A mapping function that transforms a text t ∈ T into an m-dimensional

The textual domain

L : T → T

embedding vector E(t) ∈ Rm, facilitated by an Embedding Model
A generation function that maps a prompt p ∈ T to a response L(p) ∈ T,
generated by a LLM

fi = {ai, bi} A question-answer (Q-A) pair from the enriched FAQ list F , where

di
tFAQ, tDoc

wi

ai ∈ T is a question and bi ∈ T is its corresponding answer
A document segment within the augmented corpus D
Thresholds defining the acceptance criteria for FAQ and Document
search tiers, respectively
A warning or disclaimer from a predefined set W ⊆ T

Algorithm 1 URAG Operational Framework

Input: User query q ∈ T
Output: Final answer aG ∈ T

1: Query Embedding: Compute q′ = E(q) ∈ Rm

Tier 1: FAQ Search

2: Identify the top k FAQ pairs Fk = {fi}k

i=1 such that each fi = {ai, bi} satisfies

cos(θ(q′, E(ai))) ⩾ tFAQ, where ai ∈ fi ∈ F and i ∈ {1, 2, .., k}

Select answer bj from the pair fj = {aj, bj} with the highest score in Fk
Return aG = bj

3: if |Fk| ⩾ 1 then
4:
5:
6: else
7:
8: end if

Proceed to Tier 2

Tier 2: Document Search

9: Retrieve the top K document segments DK = {di}K

i=1 that meet the threshold

tDoc, meaning cos(θ(q′, E(di))) ⩾ tDoc, where di ∈ D and i ∈ {1, 2, .., K}

Construct prompt p = concat(q, DK ), where p ∈ T
Generate aG = L(p)
Return aG := concat(L(p), ws)

10: if |DK | ⩾ 1 then
11:
12:
13:
14: else
15:
16:
17: end if

Fallback: Generate aG = L(q)
Return aG := concat(L(q), wr)

strategically rewriting them for consistency and contextual relevance, instead of
using entire documents as done in Naive RAG. This approach extracts the gen-
eral context from the original documents, guiding the rewriting process of each
chunk to maintain logical coherence. Each rewritten chunk is then condensed
into a brief summary sentence, which is appended at the beginning. This work-
flow, detailed in Algorithm 2, significantly enhances the retrieval of relevant
information, thereby boosting system efficiency and accuracy.

8

Long Nguyen et al.

Fig. 4. Illustrative overview of the two mechanisms implemented during the prepara-
tory phase of URAG.

A key component of URAG-D is Semantic Chunking, a novel technique pro-
posed by [28]. Unlike traditional fixed-size chunking, semantic chunking adap-
tively determines chunk boundaries between sentences based on embedding sim-
ilarity. This method involves analyzing the embeddings E(sr) of each sentence
sr within a document oi, and grouping sentences with similar semantic content
into cohesive chunks, represented as cij = {sr}r.

Each chunk dij

is meticulously tagged to trace back to its original docu-
ment oi, ensuring efficient management and retrieval within the database. In
this paper, we define di = {dij }j as the set of processed chunks derived from
the original document oi. Each dij is treated as a distinct document within the
system, collectively forming the augmented document corpus, denoted by D.

URAG-F Mechanism: FAQ Database Enrichment URAG-F, shown in
Algorithm 3, is designed to enrich the FAQ collection by fully leveraging the
augmented text document corpus, obtained from the URAG-D mechanism, along
with the initial FAQ set, which may contain critical Q-A pairs that require
special attention. The process begins by generating new Q-A pairs from these
sources and then paraphrasing them into multiple variations to enhance linguistic
diversity. This approach significantly broadens and deepens the FAQ database,
particularly in linguistically rich languages like Vietnamese, where a question
can be articulated in numerous ways, thus improving the overall quality and
coverage of the FAQ set.

Data include officialfiles, regulations,website data, ...Text Text Text Cohesive ChunksOriginal Document Generated Text Generated Text Generated Text Augmented DocumentsURAG - D MechanismEmbedding Model Sentence TransformerDocument IndexRecord TextIDRecord TextIDRecord TextIDIndexing ProcessPrompt 2Chunks are rewritten based onthe extracted general contextPrompt 1Prompt 3Generated FAQEnriched FAQPrompt 4LLM (+ CoT)FAQ IndexFAQ (if provided)FAQ are tagged with their originVector DatabaseCorpusEmbedding ModelURAG - F MechanismLLM (+ CoT)Question Answer Question Answer Question Answer Question Answer Paraphrased Q-AsQuestion Answer Prompt 4Indexing ProcessRecord QuestionIDAnswerRecord QuestionIDAnswerRecord QuestionIDAnswerEach Q-A is paraphrased andtagged to link with its root Q-AOnly embed the questionsfrom the enriched FAQLLM (+ CoT)Semantic Chucker Flow of URAG-DFlow of URAG-FURAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University Admission Chatbots

9

Algorithm 2 URAG-D Workflow

Input: Set of original documents O = {oi}K
Output: Augmented context corpus D, used in Tier 2 of Algorithm 1

i=1, where O ⊆ T

1: Initialize D = ∅
2: for i = 1 to K do
3:

capture overarching themes
Chunk Reconstruction:
for j = 1 to L do

chunks {cij }L

Semantic Chunking: Apply Semantic Chunking on oi to produce coherent
j=1, where L = f (oi) is adapted based on the content of oi
Context Extraction: Extract the general context gi from oi using L(oi) to

4:

5:
6:
7:
8:
9:
10:
11: end for

Rewrite the chunk cij
Condense tij
Combine to produce the final chunk dij = concat(hij , tij ), where dij ∈ T

using the context gi to form tij = L(cij | gi)

into a succinct representation hij = L(tij )

end for
Append to the augmented corpus: D := D ∪ {dij }j

Algorithm 3 URAG-F Workflow

Input: Context corpus D and initial FAQ set F0
Output: Enriched FAQ collection F , used in Tier 1 of Algorithm 1
Initial FAQ Expansion:

1: Utilize F0 to generate an expanded FAQ set: F = F0 ∪ L(F0)

FAQ Generation from Documents:

2: for i = 1 to |D| do
3:
4:
5: end for

Extract Q-A pairs FDi = L(di) from documents di
Update the FAQ collection: F := F ∪ FDi

FAQ Enrichment:
6: for j = 1 to |F | do
7:
8:
9: end for

Generate paraphrased variants {fjk }k of each Q-A pair fj
Enrich the FAQ set with the paraphrased versions: F := F ∪ {fjk }k

4 Experimentation

4.1 Experiment Setup

We conducted an experiment to evaluate the accuracy of the URAG system in
answering questions related to university admissions.

Dataset Preparation The dataset was compiled from real questions gathered
from high school students during three university admission events at HCMUT.
We carefully curated 500 high-quality questions, covering a broad range of topics,
emphasizing both Factual and Reasoning types. The majority of questions were
Factual, reflecting common inquiries in the admissions process. To ensure a fair

10

Long Nguyen et al.

evaluation, we focused on questions with readily available information sourced
from the official HCMUT website7 and other reliable online platforms.

URAG Baseline For the Embedding Model in our framework, we utilized the
SOTA Vietnamese model dangvantuan/vietnamese-embedding, which employs
the advanced Sentence-BERT (SBERT) [29] architecture to enhance sentence-
level semantic understanding. For Semantic Chunking, we employed the mod-
ule provided by LangChain8, a powerful framework for developing applications
with LLMs. The LLM generator component is powered by our lightweight Viet-
namese model ura-hcmut/ura-llama-7b [30], which is continually pretrained
on LLaMA [31] using an extensive Vietnamese dataset. In terms of data prepa-
ration, we curated 300 documents encompassing general information, events,
personnel, admissions, and other relevant topics related to HCMUT. This entire
setup is referred to as HCMUT Chatbot.

Comparative Systems To benchmark URAG’s performance, we compared
it against leading commercial chatbots, including GPT-4o, Claude 3.5 Sonnet,
and Gemini 1.5 Pro [32]. The evaluations were conducted through their official
platforms, allowing the chatbots to fully utilize their advanced features, including
Internet access and sophisticated reasoning engines. We configured them to use
online search capabilities through system prompts, allowing them to retrieve
additional information for questions. This mirrors the approach used in CRAG
systems, where external web searches enhance response accuracy.

4.2 Methodology

Each question from the evaluation dataset was systematically posed to each
model, and the responses were assessed by experts for correctness. Accuracy was
chosen as the primary evaluation metric, calculated as shown in Equation 1.

Accuracy =

1
n

n
(cid:88)

i=1

Correcti,

(1)

where Correcti equals 1 if the answer to the i-th question is correct and 0 other-
wise, and n represents the total number of questions in the dataset. This metric
is particularly appropriate for university admission chatbots, where the priority
is on the correctness of the answers rather than their phrasing.

4.3 Results and Analysis

Table 2 presents the overall accuracy of each evaluated system, showing that
HCMUT Chatbot, driven by the URAG system, achieves the highest perfor-
mance among all systems. This outcome highlights the effectiveness of URAG’s
two-tier architecture in enhancing the accuracy of a lightweight model through
efficient information retrieval management.

7 https://hcmut.edu.vn/
8 https://www.langchain.com/

URAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University Admission Chatbots

11

We further examined the performance based on Question Type, specifically
Factual and Reasoning, as depicted in Figure 5a. HCMUT Chatbot performed
exceptionally well in Factual questions but did not significantly surpass the other
models in Reasoning tasks. This result is understandable, given that HCMUT
Chatbot relies on a lightweight Vietnamese language model, whereas the com-
mercial chatbots benefit from extensive language models with integrated reason-
ing engines and vast parameter counts.

To evaluate the impact of each phase of the URAG architecture, we analyzed
the distribution and accuracy of responses across its tiers, as shown in Figure 5b.
The findings indicate that the URAG-F and URAG-D mechanisms were highly
effective, addressing nearly all questions within the first two tiers while keeping
fallback cases minimal. There was a balanced distribution of responses between
Tier 1 and Tier 2, with a slight decline in accuracy as the system progressed
through the tiers, reflecting the designed hierarchy of the retrieval process.

Table 2. Performance Metrics of Evaluated Chatbot Systems

System

GPT-4o

Claude 3.5 Sonnet

Gemini 1.5 Pro

HCMUT Chatbot

Factual

Reasoning

286

218

199

169

54

52

51

28

Correctness Accuracy

0.544

0.502

0.440

0.628

Total

Correct

272

251

220

314

300

200

100

s
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
R

f
o

r
e
b
m
u
N

GPT

Claude

Gemini

Ours

0

Tier 1

Tier 2

Fallback

s
s
e
n
t
c
e
r
r
o
C

300

200

100

0

(a) Performance Evaluation of Chatbot Mod-
els by Response Type

(b) Tier-Based Distribution and Accuracy of
Responses in URAG

Fig. 5. Comprehensive Analysis of Chatbot Model Performance and URAG’s Tiers

4.4 Case Study: Deployment of the HCMUT Admission Chatbot

We deployed HCMUT Chatbot, powered by the entire URAG baseline, on a ded-
icated subdomain of our university’s website at ura.hcmut.edu.vn/bk-tvts.

12

Long Nguyen et al.

Over a four-month deployment period, the chatbot recorded substantial inter-
action levels, particularly from high school students, as shown in Figure 6. In-
teraction peaks were observed in early June, coinciding with the end of the high
school academic year, and late August, just before the start of the university
term, aligning with the expected demand for admission information. Our chatbot
maintained fast response times that were consistent across varying interaction
volumes, with slight variations depending on the complexity of the questions.

Fig. 6. Interaction and Response Time Statistics of HCMUT Chatbot

5 Discussion, Limitations, and Future Work

We introduced the URAG system as an efficient and lightweight solution for
university admission chatbots, successfully deployed at HCMUT with a robust
and stable user base. Its two-tier architecture significantly enhances accuracy,
particularly for high-priority questions, by mitigating common hallucination is-
sues inherent in LLM-based systems. The traceability features in URAG-D and
URAG-F efficiently manage a large enriched database by linking text and ques-
tion variations to their original sources, simplifying updates when information
changes. However, URAG’s reliance on a lightweight generator model, while
advantageous for reducing deployment costs and enhancing security, limits its
performance compared to larger models or third-party APIs, especially when
addressing general queries beyond the admissions domain [30].

Future research should focus on advanced retrieval strategies, such as in-
tegrating SOTA Hybrid Search techniques [33], to replace the current Cosine
Similarity with Threshold method, thereby improving retrieval efficiency. Addi-
tionally, fine-tuning the LLM on domain-specific datasets related to university
admissions could further enhance the relevance and accuracy of responses. How-
ever, these improvements must be carefully balanced against the potential in-
crease in operational complexity and costs. Lastly, it is essential to acknowledge
that certain inquiries will always require the expertise and judgment of human
advisors, which automated systems cannot fully replicate.

URAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University Admission Chatbots

13

References

1. B. Memarian and T. Doleck, “ChatGPT in education: Methods, potentials, and
limitations,” Computers in Human Behavior: Artificial Humans, vol. 1, no. 2,
p. 100022, 2023.

2. S. P. Lende and M. M. Raghuwanshi, “Question answering system on education
acts using NLP techniques,” in 2016 World Conference on Futuristic Trends in
Research and Innovation for Social Welfare (Startup Conclave), pp. 1–6, 2016.
3. A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez, L. u.
Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is All you Need,” in Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach,
R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Garnett, eds.), vol. 30, Curran Associates,
Inc., 2017.

4. M. Ganesan, D. C., H. B., K. A.S., and L. B., “A Survey on Chatbots Using
Artificial Intelligence,” in 2020 International Conference on System, Computation,
Automation and Networking (ICSCAN), pp. 1–5, 2020.

5. H. Naveed, A. U. Khan, S. Qiu, M. Saqib, S. Anwar, M. Usman, N. Barnes, and

A. S. Mian, “A Comprehensive Overview of Large Language Models,” 2023.

6. Z. Ji, N. Lee, R. Frieske, T. Yu, D. Su, Y. Xu, E. Ishii, Y. J. Bang, A. Madotto,
and P. Fung, “Survey of Hallucination in Natural Language Generation,” ACM
Comput. Surv., vol. 55, 3 2023.

7. P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V. Karpukhin, N. Goyal, H. Küttler,
M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih, T. Rocktäschel, S. Riedel, and D. Kiela, “Retrieval-augmented
generation for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks,” in Proceedings of the 34th Inter-
national Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, NIPS ’20, (Red
Hook, NY, USA), Curran Associates Inc., 2020.

8. P. Zhao, H. Zhang, Q. Yu, Z. Wang, Y. Geng, F. Fu, L. Yang, W. Zhang, and
B. Cui, “Retrieval-Augmented Generation for AI-Generated Content: A Survey,”
2024.

9. A. Asai, Z. Wu, Y. Wang, A. Sil, and H. Hajishirzi, “Self-RAG: Learning to Re-

trieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Reflection,” 2023.

10. S. Jeong, J. Baek, S. Cho, S. J. Hwang, and J. Park, “Adaptive-RAG: Learning
to Adapt Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models through Question Com-
plexity,” in Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies
(Volume 1: Long Papers) (K. Duh, H. Gomez, and S. Bethard, eds.), (Mexico City,
Mexico), pp. 7036–7050, Association for Computational Linguistics, June 2024.
11. Z. Wang, Z. Wang, L. T. Le, H. S. Zheng, S. Mishra, V. Perot, Y. Zhang, A. Mat-
tapalli, A. Taly, J. Shang, C.-Y. Lee, and T. Pfister, “Speculative RAG: Enhancing
Retrieval Augmented Generation through Drafting,” 2024.

12. S.-Q. Yan, J.-C. Gu, Y. Zhu, and Z.-H. Ling, “Corrective Retrieval Augmented

Generation,” 2024.

13. P. P. Ray, “ChatGPT: A comprehensive review on background, applications, key
challenges, bias, ethics, limitations and future scope,” Internet of Things and Cyber-
Physical Systems, vol. 3, pp. 121–154, 2023.

14. Y. Gao, Y. Xiong, X. Gao, K. Jia, J. Pan, Y. Bi, Y. Dai, J. Sun, Q. Guo, M. Wang,
and H. Wang, “Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large Language Models: A
Survey,” 2023.

15. T. Bui, O. Tran, P. Nguyen, B. Ho, L. Nguyen, T. Bui, and T. Quan, “Cross-Data
Knowledge Graph Construction for LLM-enabled Educational Question-Answering

14

Long Nguyen et al.

System: A Case Study at HCMUT,” in Proceedings of the 1st ACM Workshop on
AI-Powered Q&A Systems for Multimedia, AIQAM ’24, (New York, NY, USA),
p. 36–43, Association for Computing Machinery, 2024.

16. Y. Hu, Z. Lei, Z. Zhang, B. Pan, C. Ling, and L. Zhao, “GRAG: Graph Retrieval-

Augmented Generation,” 2024.

17. A. Aloqayli and H. A. Abdelhafez, “Intelligent Chatbot for Admission in Higher
Education,” International Journal of Information and Education Technology, 2023.
18. M.-T. Nguyen, M. Tran-Tien, A. P. Viet, H.-T. Vu, and V.-H. Nguyen, “Building a
Chatbot for Supporting the Admission of Universities,” in 2021 13th International
Conference on Knowledge and Systems Engineering (KSE), pp. 1–6, 2021.

19. T. T. Nguyen, A. D. Le, H. T. Hoang, and T. Nguyen, “NEU-chatbot: Chatbot for
admission of National Economics University,” Computers and Education: Artificial
Intelligence, vol. 2, p. 100036, 2021.

20. T. Bocklisch, J. Faulkner, N. Pawlowski, and A. Nichol, “Rasa: Open Source Lan-

guage Understanding and Dialogue Management,” 2017.

21. Y. W. Chandra and S. Suyanto, “Indonesian Chatbot of University Admission Us-
ing a Question Answering System Based on Sequence-to-Sequence Model,” Procedia
Computer Science, vol. 157, pp. 367–374, 2019. The 4th International Conference
on Computer Science and Computational Intelligence (ICCSCI 2019) : Enabling
Collaboration to Escalate Impact of Research Results for Society.

22. D. Cabezas, R. Fonseca-Delgado, I. Reyes-Chacón, P. Vizcaino-Imacaña, and M. E.
Morocho-Cayamcela, “Integrating a LLaMa-based Chatbot with Augmented Re-
trieval Generation as a Complementary Educational Tool for High School and
College Students,” in Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Soft-
ware Technologies (ICSOFT 2024), pp. 395–402, 01 2024.

23. S. Neupane, E. Hossain, J. Keith, H. Tripathi, F. Ghiasi, N. A. Golilarz, A. Amir-
latifi, S. Mittal, and S. Rahimi, “From Questions to Insightful Answers: Building
an Informed Chatbot for University Resources,” 2024.

24. T.-H. Nguyen, D.-N. Tran, D.-L. Vo, V. H. Mai, and D. Xuan-Quy, “AI-Powered
University: Design and Deployment of Robot Assistant for Smart Universities,”
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, 2022.

25. J. Odede and I. Frommholz, “JayBot – Aiding University Students and Admission
with an LLM-based Chatbot,” in Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Human In-
formation Interaction and Retrieval, CHIIR ’24, (New York, NY, USA), p. 391–395,
Association for Computing Machinery, 2024.

26. S. Zeng, J. Zhang, P. He, Y. Liu, Y. Xing, H. Xu, J. Ren, Y. Chang, S. Wang,
D. Yin, and J. Tang, “The Good and The Bad: Exploring Privacy Issues in
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG),” in Findings of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics: ACL 2024 (L.-W. Ku, A. Martins, and V. Srikumar, eds.),
(Bangkok, Thailand), pp. 4505–4524, Association for Computational Linguistics,
Aug. 2024.

27. J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, B. Ichter, F. Xia, E. H. Chi, Q. V.
Le, and D. Zhou, “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language
models,” in Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, NIPS ’22, (Red Hook, NY, USA), Curran Associates Inc., 2024.
https://github.com/
Text

28. G. Kamradt,

Splitting.”

Levels

“5

of

FullStackRetrieval-com/RetrievalTutorials, 2024.

29. N. Reimers and I. Gurevych,

“Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using
Siamese BERT-Networks,” in Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Confer-
ence on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) (K. Inui, J. Jiang, V. Ng,

URAG: A Unified RAG for Precise University Admission Chatbots

15

and X. Wan, eds.), (Hong Kong, China), pp. 3982–3992, Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, Nov. 2019.

30. S. Truong, D. Nguyen, T. Nguyen, D. Le, N. Truong, T. Quan, and S. Koyejo,
“Crossing Linguistic Horizons: Finetuning and Comprehensive Evaluation of Viet-
namese Large Language Models,” in Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: NAACL 2024 (K. Duh, H. Gomez, and S. Bethard, eds.), (Mexico City,
Mexico), pp. 2849–2900, Association for Computational Linguistics, June 2024.
31. H. Touvron, T. Lavril, G. Izacard, X. Martinet, M.-A. Lachaux, T. Lacroix, B. Roz-
ière, N. Goyal, E. Hambro, F. Azhar, A. Rodriguez, A. Joulin, E. Grave, and
G. Lample, “LLaMA: Open and Efficient Foundation Language Models,” 2023.
32. S. Minaee, T. Mikolov, N. Nikzad, M. A. Chenaghlu, R. Socher, X. Amatriain, and

J. Gao, “Large Language Models: A Survey,” 2024.

33. X. Wang, Z. Wang, X. Gao, F. Zhang, Y. Wu, Z. Xu, T. Shi, Z. Wang, S. Li,
Q. Qian, R. Yin, C. Lv, X. Zheng, and X. Huang, “Searching for Best Practices in
Retrieval-Augmented Generation,” in Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, 2024.

A Appendix

A.1 Evaluation Dataset Analysis

The evaluation dataset comprises 500 authentic questions collected from high
school students, covering a wide range of topics and including both Factual and
Reasoning question types. The detailed composition of the dataset is presented
in Table 3.

Table 3. Distribution of Questions by Topic and Question Type

Category

Type

Description

University Overview

Programs and Majors

Topic

Faculty and Career Guidance

General inquiries about the university’s founding, locations,
facilities, organizational structure, and overall campus envi-
ronment.

Related to academic programs, entry requirements, curriculum
details, unique aspects of majors, and opportunities for intern-
ships and research.

Inquiries about faculty expertise, teaching and research expe-
rience, as well as guidance on career opportunities and job
placement for students.

Count

61

186

32

Student Life and Extracurriculars About student clubs, extracurricular activities, events, sports,

50

student welfare, and support services.

Admissions and Policies

On admission criteria, application procedures, scholarships, fi-
nancial aid, health insurance, and other student policies.

Question Type

Factual

Reasoning

Total

Seeking specific information or details about programs, proce-
dures, admission requirements, facilities, and services offered
by the university, based on factual data.

Require analysis, comparison, explanation, or advice regarding
academic choices, program distinctions, and career guidance.

171

500

427

73

16

Long Nguyen et al.

A.2 Hyperparameter Selection for HCMUT Chatbot

As described in Algorithm 1, selecting the appropriate thresholds tFAQ and tDoc
for Tier 1 and Tier 2, respectively, is crucial to optimizing the performance of the
URAG system. To fine-tune these hyperparameters, we conducted experiments
using 500 randomly generated queries based on data from the FAQ set F and
document set D, processed through the URAG-D and URAG-F mechanisms.

Threshold Selection for tFAQ To determine the optimal value of tFAQ, we
retrieved the top k most relevant questions from the FAQ set F for each query.
The performance was evaluated using the Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), com-
puted as shown in Equation A.2.

MRR =

1
|Q|

|Q|
(cid:88)

i=1

1
ranki

,

(A.2)

where ranki is the position of the first relevant question retrieved for the i-
th query, and ranki = ∞ if no relevant question is found. The total number of
queries is |Q| = 500. MRR was selected because it effectively captures the quality
of retrieval by emphasizing the rank of the first correct result, providing a robust
measure of retrieval system performance, particularly suited to the nature of
URAG’s tiers. By testing threshold values between 0.8 and 0.95, we identified
the tFAQ that maximized MRR. The value k = 20 was chosen to align with the
average number of paraphrased variations generated from a single original object
by the URAG-F mechanism, ensuring consistency and meaningful evaluation.

Threshold Selection for tDoc The approach for selecting tDoc was similar,
focusing on retrieving the most relevant document segments from the document
set D. We set K = 2, striking a balance between computational efficiency and
retrieval accuracy, tailored to the capabilities of our lightweight LLM.

The final hyperparameters used in Section 4 are summarized in Table 4.

Table 4. Hyperparameters for URAG Components

Stage

Hyperparameter Value

Tier 1

Tier 2

THRESHOLD_FAQ

TOP_K

THRESHOLD_DOC

TOP_K

temperature

URA-LLaMA

top_p

top_k

max_new_tokens

0.9

20

0.8

2

0.9

0.95

40

512