First Token Probability Guided RAG for Telecom
Question Answering

Tingwei Chen∗, Jiayi Chen∗, Zijian Zhao∗‡, Haolong Chen∗†, Liang Zhang∗, Guangxu Zhu∗
∗ Shenzhen Research Institute of Big Data, Shenzhen, China
† School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen), Shenzhen, China
‡ School of Computer Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China

5
2
0
2

n
a
J

1
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
8
6
4
6
0
.
1
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract—Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered
significant attention for their impressive general-purpose capa-
bilities. For applications requiring intricate domain knowledge,
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has shown a distinct
advantage in incorporating domain-specific information into
LLMs. However, existing RAG research has not fully addressed
the challenges of Multiple Choice Question Answering (MCQA)
in telecommunications, particularly in terms of retrieval quality
and mitigating hallucinations. To tackle these challenges, we
propose a novel first token probability guided RAG framework.
This framework leverages confidence scores to optimize key
hyperparameters, such as chunk number and chunk window
size, while dynamically adjusting the context. Our method starts
by retrieving the most relevant chunks and generates a single
token as the potential answer. The probabilities of all options are
then normalized to serve as confidence scores, which guide the
dynamic adjustment of the context. By iteratively optimizing the
hyperparameters based on these confidence scores, we can con-
tinuously improve RAG performance. We conducted experiments
to validate the effectiveness of our framework, demonstrating its
potential to enhance accuracy in domain-specific MCQA tasks.
Index Terms—Retrieval-Augmented Generation; Multiple

Choice Question Answering.

I. INTRODUCTION

Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered significant
attention due to their impressive general-purpose capabili-
ties [1]–[3]. These generative language models can understand
and process user inputs, comprehend complex knowledge,
and generate high-quality answers, demonstrating extensive
understanding of general human knowledge. As LLMs have
shown excellent general capabilities, they have been applied
not only in natural language, but also in fields like code [4],
mathematics [5], and music [6].

For specific applications with intricate domain knowledge,
LLMs have a potential shortfall in the precision and depth
of knowledge and thus limit their ability to fully meet the
nuanced demands. To inject domain-specific knowledge into
LLMs, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) shows a sig-
nificant advantage in that it does not require the huge computa-
tional resources and can efficiently extract useful information
from a large external knowledge base, which can even be
updated at any time without incurring additional costs [7].
RAG enhances the capability of LLMs to address specific
industry challenges by leveraging external knowledge bases
during the generation process. This method involves two main

Corresponding author: Guangxu Zhu

components: a retriever and a generator. The retriever com-
ponent searches a large corpus of domain-specific chunks to
find relevant information, while the generator component uses
this information to produce contextually appropriate responses.
The core of RAG is retrieving the most relevant information
efficiently and accurately and transferring it as an efficient
prompt to make it understandable by LLMs, all of which have
been the subject of extensive research [8]–[10].

In the field of telecommunications, the rapid advancement
and complexity of technologies necessitate a deep understand-
ing of communication protocols. Professionals in this domain
need to meticulously retrieve and study these protocols to
grasp the intricate logical mechanisms and technical details
that govern the entire communication process. With the con-
tinuous evolution of 5G, 6G, and forthcoming generations of
communication protocols, the corpus of knowledge in this
domain is ever-expanding. This growth imposes an increasing
burden on professionals, as the time and effort required for
effective information retrieval escalate. Traditional methods of
manual retrieval and study in [8]–[10] are becoming increas-
ingly impractical and inefficient in handling the vast amount
of information.

Recently, there exist few research works focusing on the
domain-specific RAG for the telecommunication applications.
By combining the communication, understanding, and think-
ing capabilities of LLMs with the expertise from knowledge
bases, AI agents can play a useful role in many scenarios,
such as training employees, answering professional questions
from clients, and generating professional reports. Especially
as telecommunications data, such as protocols and standards,
are continuously updated, RAG can efficiently overcome this
without requiring the model to be retrained. For example,
Bornea et al. propose Telco-RAG [11], a universal framework
to process telecommunications standards using components
like routers to augment queries with technical glossaries and
neural networks to locate information in the knowledge base.
This approach significantly enhances the model’s ability to
provide detailed and accurate answers compared to relying
solely on the information encoded in the LLM’s training data.
Additionally, Yilma et al. [12] propose TelecomRAG, which
enhances traditional RAG by adding role-playing in the prompt
and verifying and optimizing the output for appropriateness.
While there is still room for improvement in the retrieval
performance of existing RAG implementations. One of the key

 
 
 
 
 
 
challenges is ensuring that the retriever accurately identifies
the most relevant documents from a potentially vast and
diverse corpus. Additionally, the generator must effectively in-
tegrate and contextualize the retrieved information to produce
coherent and informative responses.

However, existing RAG research has not fully addressed
the specific challenges of MCQA tasks [13], [14], particularly
within the telecommunications domain. Instead of generating
answers directly, the model needs to select the correct answer
from a set of multiple choices based on the given question.
Only one recent work, Telco-RAG [11], has shown potential
in handling telecommunications MCQA, which typically relies
on models with large parameter counts. When smaller models
are used [15], the challenge of effectively matching the correct
options becomes more pronounced. It is difficult to retrieve
high-quality information, and smaller models often struggle
to capture the nuanced domain knowledge required to answer
questions accurately. Furthermore, when using language mod-
els for question answering, the tendency of these models to
generate plausible but incorrect responses—known as ”halluci-
nations”—introduces an additional risk in this accuracy-critical
domain. When LLMs select an answer, they generate multi-
token choice descriptions directly without a clear indication
of confidence in their decision, making it difficult to trust and
understand the reasoning behind their responses.

To address the hallucination issue, we propose a novel first
token probability method to measure the confidence of the
model’s decisions. Specifically, we design a prompt template
that directs the model to generate only a single token as
the answer. This approach reduces computational costs and
minimizes the likelihood of producing irrelevant tokens. We
then normalize the probabilities of the choices in MCQA to
serve as confidence scores, providing a standard for evaluating
the LLMs’ output. By setting a threshold, we can filter out
low-confidence answers, thereby reducing the potential for
hallucinations. To validate this method, our experiments show
that the probability of the generated token is closely linked
to its likelihood of being the correct option, offering a more
reliable basis for answer selection.

To address the quality issues during retrieval, we pro-
pose a novel first token probability guided RAG framework
that incorporates global context adjustment with optimized
hyperparameters. Parameters like chunk size are crucial in
determining the quality of retrieved chunks. Our method tailors
hyperparameters to individual questions, increasing the likeli-
hood of capturing the varied relationships between chunks and
answers across different questions. Specifically, we begin by
setting an initial hyperparameter configuration to retrieve the
most relevant chunks. We then apply the first token probability
method to evaluate these chunks and the question, generating
a judgment score. If the score is unsatisfactory, we adjust
the hyperparameters to explore better potential outcomes.
This iterative hyperparameter optimization process allows for
continuous improvement of RAG performance.

In summary, we have the following contributions
• We proposed a novel first token probability method to

measure decision confidence and verified its consistency
with the correct option in MCQA.

• We introduced a first

token probability guided RAG
framework that employs a global search for optimized
hyperparameters, enabling continuous performance im-
provement of RAG.

• We conducted experiments to demonstrate the effective-

ness of our RAG framework.

II. METHODOLOGY

In this section, we outline the key methods and approaches
employed to tackle the challenges identified in the context of
MCQA within the telecommunications domain. Our approach
combines prompt engineering and RAG to enhance model
performance by effectively leveraging domain-specific knowl-
edge. Additionally, we utilized first token probability as a
confidence indicator to guide the hyperparameter optimization
within the RAG framework.

A. Language models

Phi-2 is a Small Language Model (SLM) with 2.7 billion
parameters, designed for efficient performance in specialized
tasks. Despite its compact size, Phi-2 excels in reasoning
and language comprehension, comparable to much larger
models. [16]

B. Domain-Specific Knowledge Embedding via RAG

To further improve the accuracy and relevance of responses,
we integrated domain-specific knowledge into our system
using RAG. This technique allows the model to draw upon
a vast external knowledge base, ensuring that the information
it retrieves is both accurate and contextually appropriate for the
telecommunications domain. The following subsections detail
the key components of our RAG implementation, focusing
on the challenges associated with chunk size, chunk window
size, embedding models, indexing strategy, and top-k chunk
selection.

1) Chunk Size: As RAG methods work by retrieving
chunks from a knowledge base, the quality of the split chunks
directly influences the model performance. To maintain sen-
tence integrity during chunking, we utilized the SentenceSplit-
ter class from LlamaIndex1, which splits text into dependent
sentences. However, as the input length of embedding models
and LLMs are all limited, we must restrict the maximum
length of chunks. As a result, when split sentences are longer
than the threshold, we need to further split them into smaller
chunks. Additionally, due to the limited precision of sentence
splitter models, we noticed that they sometimes split sentences
in an incorrect way. For example, a period (’.’) may not always
represent the end of a sentence, but the model may still split
the sentence at that point. These two issues can both lead
to incoherent sentences, which may further harm the model’s
performance intuitively.

1https://github.com/jerryjliu/llama index

Fig. 1.

Illustration of the proposed framework of first token probability Guided RAG

2) Chunk Window Size:

In RAG, we hypothesized that
the chunk might split complete sentences into semantically
incomplete fragments, degrading the retrieval effectiveness.
To address this, we explored a solution involving window
size selection. After retrieving a chunk, we revert
to the
source text in the knowledge base and construct a single,
comprehensive sentence. This is achieved by centering on the
key text corresponding to the chunk and merging its preceding
and succeeding context. This integrated sentence serves as
the external knowledge input to LLMs. The extent of the
surrounding context is determined by a variable termed ’Chunk
Window Size’. By employing this method, we can ensure that
the sentences containing key text remain intact while also
increasing the input of knowledge relevant to the query.

3) Embedding Models: Matching chunks is a critical com-
ponent of the RAG process, necessitating the translation of
textual data into numerical feature vectors via an embedding
model. This model is tasked with converting text segments
of varying lengths into a standardized format of fixed-length
numerical vectors. It must also ensure that vectors representing
semantically similar content are positioned closely within the
feature space to enhance the chunk matching process.
4) Indexing Strategy: After converting external

textual
knowledge into high-dimensional vector representations via
an embedding model, we need to search for vectors that are
most closely related to the content of the question within
the knowledge base. Vector indexing techniques are crucial
for enhancing the efficiency of nearest neighbor searches in
high-dimensional spaces, particularly within the domains of
machine learning and data mining, where they facilitate the
rapid retrieval of data points most similar to a given query

vector.

5) Top-K Chunk Number: Selecting the appropriate exter-
nal knowledge for a domain-specific MCQA task is essential
for enhancing model performance. As previously discussed,
determining the chunk size and the matching strategy are crit-
ical steps, with the number of knowledge chunks emerging as
a pivotal hyperparameter. Contrary to what might be expected,
our experiments have shown that incrementally increasing the
top-k parameter does not guarantee a consistent improvement
in performance. A potential explanation is that a larger k
value introduces more irrelevant chunks, potentially causing
knowledge interference within the LLM.

C. Prompt Engineering

Prompt engineering may provide a promising approach to
address some of the challenges mentioned earlier in MCQA,
particularly in overcoming inconsistencies in answer selection
and improving overall accuracy. As illustrated in Fig. 1, instead
of generating full-text answers, an efficient strategy involves
directing the model to output a single token corresponding
to the selected answer. By evaluating the logits of the first
token generated for each option and selecting the one with
the highest probability, we streamline the selection process
and reduce inference time. This method avoids the inherent
complexities of aligning free-form text outputs with prede-
fined options, significantly improving the accuracy of answer
selection.

D. First Token Probability

When a model generates tokens, it leverages prior knowl-
edge from the context to produce a probability distribution

across the entire vocabulary for the next token. To mitigate un-
certainty in generating the correct option token, one approach
is to select the token with the highest probability. However,
when the contextual information is insufficient to allow the
model to generate a correct answer, the token with the highest
probability may not have a overwhelming probability.

The experiments presented in the following section show
that there is a positive correlation between first token probabil-
ity and the accuracy of predictions in MCQA tasks. This means
that as the first token probability increases, the likelihood
that the model’s selected answer is correct also increases.
Intuitively, this relationship arises because a higher first token
probability indicates that the model is more confident in its
prediction, which often translates to higher accuracy.

Given this relationship, first token probability can be used
as a reliable metric to guide context adjustment. By monitor-
ing this probability, we can dynamically decide whether the
context information is sufficient or if additional chunks need
to be retrieved to improve confidence, and thus, accuracy.

E. Hyperparameters Optimization

Hyperparameters Optimization is crucial for enhancing the
performance of a RAG system. By using first token probability
as a metric, we can assess the effectiveness of the chosen
hyperparameters in answering a given question. In a RAG
system, the prompt’s context length, which includes chunk
number and chunk window size, are relatively straightforward
parameters to optimize. We developed the following Algo-
rithm 1 to search these two parameters, implementing two
different use cases:

1) Threshold Method: In this approach, a predefined thresh-
old is set. During execution, if the confidence score reaches
or exceeds this threshold, the model proceeds to answer the
question and exits the parameter search process.

2) Best Probability Method: When time constraints are not
a concern, this approach searches the entire parameter space
to find the configuration that yields the highest probability,
thereby maximizing accuracy under the given settings.

III. EXPERIMENTS

In this section, we first evaluated different RAG settings
to determine the most effective settings. Building on these
settings, we validated the earlier discussion on the relation-
ship between first token probability and accuracy. We then
conducted experiments on two distinct methods: the threshold
method and the best probability method. Our results demon-
strate that the highest accuracy achieved on the testset was
78.4%.

Our evaluation is based on a dataset of 366 test samples,
identical to the one provided by the challenge [17], and is used
to assess the model’s accuracy.

A. Settings of RAG

In our experiments, we evaluated various configurations to
optimize the performance of the RAG system. To mitigate
the potential fragmentation of sentences, we employed the
LlamaIndex SentenceSplitter, ensuring that the chunks retained
coherence. We used a fixed chunk size of 64 tokens, which
allowed for selective retrieval of relevant information from the
554 3GPP documents. Based on our calculations, this chunk
size corresponds to an average of approximately 45 tokens
when processed with the phi-2 model. To ensure that the total
input does not exceed phi-2’s context window limit of 2048
tokens, we restricted the number of chunks to no more than
35.

We experimented with different top-K values, ranging from
5 to 35 in increments of 5, and set the window size to 0
to explore the impact on retrieval accuracy. For indexing, we
utilized FAISS [18] with the IndexFlatIP method, ensuring
efficient and accurate retrieval. The relationship between RAG
accuracy and the top-K parameter is illustrated in Figure 2,
showing that the highest accuracy was not always achieved
at the maximum k value, likely due to the introduction of
irrelevant chunks leading to comprehension disruption within
the LLM. Additionally, our experiments revealed that embed-
ding models with larger output dimensions did not necessarily
result in better performance.

The settings and configurations used in our RAG system are

Algorithm 1 Hyperparameter Optimization

summarized in Table I.

1: for each chunk number in the specified range do
for each window size in the specified range do
2:
based
generate
3:

and

prompt

Retrieve
chunk number and window size
Predict answer and calculate first token probability
if using threshold method and confidence >
threshold then

on

Return predicted answer and exit

else if using best probability method and confidence
> previous best then

4:
5:

6:
7:

end if
end for

Update best answer and confidence

8:
9:
10:
11: end for
12: Return final answer based on the selected method

TABLE I
SETTINGS AND CONFIGURATIONS OF THE RAG SYSTEM

Component
LLM
RAG corpus
Chunk size
Window size
Top-K chunk number (k)
Embedding model
Indexing strategy
Sentence splitting

Setting
Phi-2
554 3GPP documents
64 tokens
0 to 1
5 to 35 (incremented by 5)
sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L12-v2
IndexFlatIP
LlamaIndex’s SentenceSplitter

B. Evaluating First Token Probability as a Confidence Indi-
cator

To validate the use of first token probability as a confi-
dence indicator in our Confidence-Guided Context Adjustment

Figure 4 illustrates the relationship between accuracy and
chunk number, with the window size set to 0, while other set-
tings remain consistent with those in Table I. The accuracy is
calculated by selecting the option with the highest probability
after multiple inference passes.

The results show that by setting a threshold of 0.5, the model
can correctly answer approximately 250 questions, all with
an accuracy exceeding 80%. Furthermore, when searching
across all chunk sizes and selecting the token with the highest
probability, the model is able to answer 315 questions.

Fig. 2. Accuracy versus the number of top K chunks included in the prompt,
comparing the performance of three different embedding models.

mechanism, we conducted experiments on the testset with top
5-chunk RAG.

We then separated the First Token Probabilities into two
groups: one for correct answers and one for incorrect answers.
As shown in Figure 3, correct answers generally have higher
First Token Probabilities compared to incorrect ones, indicat-
ing that the model is more confident when it predicts correctly.
This clear difference in distributions confirms that lower
First Token Probabilities are associated with lower accuracy,
while higher First Token Probabilities correlate with better
accuracy. This finding supports using first token probability
as a reliable metric to guide context adjustments and improve
the model’s predictions.

Fig. 3. Probability distributions of correct and wrong predictions with RAG.
The x-axis denotes the first token probability, and the y-axis shows the
normalized density of these predictions.

C. First Token Probability Guided RAG

In this experiment, we aim to validate the effectiveness of
the threshold method. Specifically, we investigate how many
questions can be answered correctly under different chunk
sizes when applying a fixed probability threshold, and assess
the accuracy of those answers.

Fig. 4. Number of completed questions and corresponding accuracy as a
function of chunk number. The rightmost bar represents the results where the
highest probability answer is selected from all chunk numbers combined.

D. Maximizing Accuracy through Best Probability Method

In this experiment, we evaluate the model’s accuracy by run-
ning the model across various chunk sizes, each combined with
two different context windows. For each chunk and window
configuration, the model generates a probability distribution
over possible answers. The final answer is selected based
on the highest probability observed across all configurations,
which we refer to as the ”Combined” result.

This approach allows us to explore how combining different
context windows and chunk sizes can impact the model’s
performance. Notably, as chunk size increases, especially
under window 1 configurations, the model may experience
truncation due to context length limits. This truncation can
affect the accuracy for larger chunk sizes.

Notably, the results presented in Table II reveal a significant
trend: as more results from different contexts, chunk sizes, and
even embedding models are combined, the model’s accuracy
continues to improve. The combined results from both context
windows show a significant accuracy improvement. However,
when we integrate results across different embedding models,
the accuracy further increases, leading to a total improvement
of 26.8% over the baseline without RAG. This demonstrates
the advantage of leveraging diverse configurations, with the
combined embedding models contributing substantially to the
overall accuracy gain.

5101520253035Chunk number010203040506070Accuracy (%)all-MiniLM-L12-v2(dim=384)all-mpnet-base-v2(dim=768)all-roberta-large-v1(dim=1024)0.20.40.60.81.0First token probability0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0DensityCorrectWrong5101520253035CombinedChunk number050100150200250300Number of completed questions85.7%86.1%84.0%83.0%82.5%82.4%80.7%82.2%First token probability threshold = 0.5[8] V. Karpukhin, B. O˘guz, S. Min, P. Lewis, L. Wu, S. Edunov, D. Chen,
and W.-t. Yih, “Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question
answering,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.04906, 2020.

[9] D. Edge, H. Trinh, N. Cheng, J. Bradley, A. Chao, A. Mody, S. Truitt,
and J. Larson, “From local to global: A graph rag approach to query-
focused summarization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130, 2024.
[10] Y. Yu, W. Ping, Z. Liu, B. Wang, J. You, C. Zhang, M. Shoeybi,
and B. Catanzaro, “Rankrag: Unifying context ranking with retrieval-
augmented generation in llms,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.02485, 2024.
[11] A.-L. Bornea, F. Ayed, A. De Domenico, N. Piovesan, and A. Maatouk,
“Telco-rag: Navigating the challenges of retrieval-augmented language
telecommunications,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.15939,
models for
2024.

[12] G. M. Yilma, J. A. Ayala-Romero, A. Garcia-Saavedra, and X. Costa-
Perez, “Telecomrag: Taming telecom standards with retrieval augmented
generation and llms,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07053, 2024.
[13] X. Wang, C. Hu, B. Ma, P. R¨ottger, and B. Plank, “Look at

the
text: Instruction-tuned language models are more robust multiple choice
selectors than you think,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.08382, 2024.
[14] J. Robinson, C. M. Rytting, and D. Wingate, “Leveraging large
language models for multiple choice question answering,” 2023.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.12353

[15] T. Ahmed, N. Piovesan, A. De Domenico, and S. Choudhury, “Linguistic
intelligence in large language models for telecommunications,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.15818, 2024.

[16] N. Piovesan, A. De Domenico, and F. Ayed, “Telecom language models:

Networks

Large
by

[17] “Specializing

Must they be large?” arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.04666, 2024.
for

com
[Online].
specializing-large-language-models-for-telecom-networks, 2024.
[18] M. Douze, A. Guzhva, C. Deng, J. Johnson, G. Szilvasy, P.-E. Mazar´e,
M. Lomeli, L. Hosseini, and H. J´egou, “The faiss library,” 2024.

Tele-
Challenge,”
5G
https://zindi.africa/competitions/

Models
in

Available:

Language

AI/ML

ITU

TABLE II
ACCURACY FOR DIFFERENT CHUNK NUMBERS AND WINDOW SIZES. THE
RESULTS SHOW THE ACCURACY FOR EACH CHUNK NUMBER UNDER TWO
DIFFERENT WINDOW CONFIGURATIONS (WINDOW 0 AND WINDOW 1).
THE TABLE ALSO INCLUDES COMBINED RESULTS ACROSS BOTH WINDOW
CONFIGURATIONS, COMBINED EMBEDDING MODELS, AND THE BASELINE
ACCURACY WITHOUT RAG.

Chunk number
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Combined
Combined window
Combined embeddings models
Without RAG

Window 0 Window 1

68.3%
70.49%
70.2%
69.9%
71.0%
70.4%
70.4%
74.5%

72.1%
74.8%
70.7%
70.4%
70.7%
68.0%
68.0%
76.7%

77.6%
78.4%
51.6%

IV. CONCLUSION

In this paper, we introduced a novel approach to enhance
the performance of LLMs in domain-specific MCQA tasks. By
leveraging RAG and first token probability guided chunk num-
ber and window size optimization, we demonstrated that it is
possible to significantly improve the accuracy and reliability of
model predictions. Our experiments validated the effectiveness
of the proposed methods, showing a clear correlation between
first token probability and answer’s accuracy. Furthermore, the
use of RAG allowed for the integration of domain-specific
knowledge without the need for extensive model retraining.
These findings underscore the potential of irst token prob-
ability guided RAG in overcoming the inherent challenges
associated with LLMs, such as hallucinations and limited
explainability. In future work, we plan to explore further
optimizations and extend this approach to other specialized
domains, as well as investigate the impact of LLM-generated
token probability on performance.

REFERENCES

[1] W. X. Zhao, K. Zhou, J. Li, T. Tang, X. Wang, Y. Hou, Y. Min, B. Zhang,
J. Zhang, Z. Dong et al., “A survey of large language models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.18223, 2023.

[2] H. Zhou, C. Hu, Y. Yuan, Y. Cui, Y. Jin, C. Chen, H. Wu, D. Yuan,
L. Jiang, D. Wu et al., “Large language model (llm) for telecommu-
nications: A comprehensive survey on principles, key techniques, and
opportunities,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.10825, 2024.

[3] H. Chen, H. Chen, Z. Zhao, K. Han, G. Zhu, Y. Zhao, Y. Du, W. Xu, and
Q. Shi, “An overview of domain-specific foundation model: key tech-
nologies, applications and challenges,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.04267,
2024.

[4] S. Ouyang, J. M. Zhang, M. Harman, and M. Wang, “Llm is like a
box of chocolates: the non-determinism of chatgpt in code generation,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.02828, 2023.

[5] Y. Wu, F. Jia, S. Zhang, H. Li, E. Zhu, Y. Wang, Y. T. Lee, R. Peng,
Q. Wu, and C. Wang, “Mathchat: Converse to tackle challenging math
problems with llm agents,” in ICLR 2024 Workshop on Large Language
Model (LLM) Agents, 2024.

[6] X. Liang, Z. Zhao, W. Zeng, Y. He, F. He, Y. Wang, and C. Gao,
“Pianobart: Symbolic piano music generation and understanding with
large-scale pre-training,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.03361, 2024.
[7] H. Li, Y. Su, D. Cai, Y. Wang, and L. Liu, “A survey on retrieval-
augmented text generation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.01110, 2022.