Bisecting K-Means in RAG for Enhancing
Question-Answering Tasks Performance in
Telecommunications

Pedro Sousa∗, Cláudio Klautau Mello∗, Frank B. Morte∗, and Luis F. Solis Navarro†
∗Federal University of Pará, Institute of Technology, Belém, Brazil
†State University of Campinas, Institute of Computing, Campinas, Brazil
∗{pedro.sousa, claudio.mello, frank.morte}@itec.ufpa.br, †L214616@dac.unicamp.br

5
2
0
2

b
e
F
7
2

]

R

I
.
s
c
[

1
v
8
8
1
0
2
.
2
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract—Question-answering tasks in the telecom domain are
still reasonably unexplored in the literature, primarily due to the
field’s rapid changes and evolving standards. This work presents
a novel Retrieval-Augmented Generation framework explicitly
designed for the telecommunication domain, focusing on datasets
composed of 3GPP documents. The framework introduces the
use of the Bisecting K-Means clustering technique to organize
the embedding vectors by contents, facilitating more efficient
information retrieval. By leveraging this clustering technique,
the system pre-selects a subset of clusters that are most similar
to the user’s query, enhancing the relevance of the retrieved
information. Aiming for models with lower computational cost
for inference, the framework was tested using Small Language
Models, demonstrating improved performance with an accuracy
of 66.12% on phi-2 and 72.13% on phi-3 fine-tuned models, and
reduced training time.

Index Terms—Retrieval-Augmented Generation, 3GPP docu-

ments, Bisecting K-Means, Small Language Models

I. INTRODUCTION

Large-scale language models (LLMs) have revolutionized
many industries by providing better text understanding and
generation capabilities. These models, such as Microsoft’s phi-
2 [1], are trained on vast datasets with billions of parameters,
allowing them to capture linguistic nuances and general knowl-
edge in depth. LLMs applicability ranges from automating
administrative tasks to personalized assistance, demonstrating
their immense potential for innovation in many areas [2].

Despite their versatility, LLM models often need more
knowledge in highly technical domains [3], such as telecom-
munications, due to the need for more specific data during
their initial training. This can lead to inaccurate or inadequate
answers when faced with questions that require deep, special-
ized understanding. To overcome these limitations, specializa-
tion techniques such as fine-tuning and Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) are needed.

Fine-tuning involves retraining an existing LLM on a spe-
cialized dataset. This process adjusts the model’s weights to
better align its predictions with domain-specific knowledge
and terminology [4]. During fine-tuning, the model is repeat-
edly exposed to specialized data, allowing it to capture relevant
patterns and nuances not present in the initial training. This
method improves the model’s ability to provide accurate and
appropriate answers to queries related to a specific domain.

RAG is another powerful technique used to increase the
accuracy of LLMs. RAG combines text generation with in-
formation retrieval by integrating external data relevant to
the query’s context [2]. This is accomplished through two
main components: a retrieval model that searches for relevant
documents in an external database and a generative model
that uses these documents to produce contextualized answers
[5]. This approach expands the model’s knowledge base and
ensures that the answers are more accurate and informed by
the latest, domain-specific context.

In the telecommunications sector, the application of special-
ized LLMs is particularly relevant [6]. This sector is character-
ized by its complexity and the need for specific terminology. A
specialized LLM in this field can significantly reduce the time
required to access crucial information, increase the accuracy of
answers, and ensure compliance with international standards.
This results in more efficient operations and the ability to
quickly meet the technical demands of the sector.

This paper presents an alternative approach to specializing
LLM models for the telecommunications sector. It uses the
TeleQnA dataset [7], created explicitly to assess the telecom-
munications knowledge of LLMs. The dataset consists of
10,000 questions and answers extracted from various sources,
including standards specifications and research papers, ensur-
ing broad coverage of the required knowledge. The goal is to
develop a model capable of answering questions about 3GPP
(The 3rd Generation Partnership Project) standards in release
18.

The proposal resides in integrating fine-tuning with cluster-
ing techniques. Specifically, Bisecting K-Means [8], to further
refine the accuracy and relevance of the model. Bisecting
K-Means is used to group similar data, identifying patterns
and trends, that are critical for interpretation and analysis
in telecommunications. The experimental results demonstrate
significant improvements, highlighting the effectiveness of this
methodology in adapting LLMs to highly specialized domains.

II. RELATED WORKS

Recent studies have explored the application of LLMs
in the telecom domain across various datasets, showcasing
their potential to enhance numerous aspects of the industry.
However, many of these studies fall short of addressing the

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Diagram of the RAG pipeline that integrates a routing module with clustering techniques to efficiently retrieve the most relevant documents.

optimization of search processes within knowledge represented
by embedding vectors. For instance, Telco-RAG [9] introduces
the concept of leveraging LLMs for telecom datasets in
question-answering tasks in a wide variety of information
datasets [7] but lacks clarity on how specific components of the
pipeline, such as embedding-based retrieval, semantic search,
and response generation, contribute to overall performance
improvements. This gap highlights the need for more in-depth
research that delves into optimizing the search and retrieval
mechanisms within LLMs to enhance their capabilities in
telecom applications.

TelecomRAG [10], for instance, is significantly constrained
by the limitations of its pipeline, failing to address critical
performance issues prevalent in the telecom sector, such as the
extensive use of abbreviations and acronyms. This oversight
can lead to inefficiencies and inaccuracies when processing
data of this domain. In contrast, this work is designed to
handle user entries that may pose challenges for an LLM
to analyze effectively. The proposed framework incorporates
a text preprocessing step that augments the prompt, ensur-
ing that text generation is more accurate and reliable. This
preprocessing enhances the LLM’s ability to understand and
generate meaningful responses, thereby improving the overall
performance of question-answering tasks.

Authors of [11] optimized the internal parameters of the
RAG pipeline, particularly in the retrieval of indexes, demon-
strating significant efficiency improvements. However, it re-
mains limited by its reliance on the original structure of
the content, offering no alternative methods for searching
the knowledge representation. In contrast, this work delves
deeper into the knowledge representation by utilizing cluster-
ing techniques on the content, and in this way grouping the
embeddings by the chunks content, disregarding their initial
structure. This approach allows for more efficient searches
within the embedding space, enhancing the overall perfor-
mance and effectiveness of the information retrieval process.

III. METHODOLOGY

Several critical steps were implemented to specialize an
LLM model in answering questions about Telecom domain
specifications. The documents used in this work were in the
TeleQnA dataset, a compilation of 3GPP series documents in
question-answering format with multiple-choice answers.

A series of methods were used to harness better perfor-
mance. As shown in Figure 1, the RAG pipeline begins with
the set of 3GPP source documents A, which undergo a data
extraction process to collect the set of acronyms and abbre-
viations B. These elements, combined with the user’s query,
pass through a query enhancement process that augments the
user’s input for better accuracy. The source documents are
then converted into the set of chunks C with chunk length
α and passed through an embedding model to produce the
embedding matrix E, followed by the Bisecting K-Means step
with number of clusters β that organizes the information by
content into the clusters set D. The clustered data is stored
in a vector database, which in this work was SQLite3 [12],
as part of the pre-processing block, which is performed only
once.

In the online processing phase, the set of acronyms and
abbreviations B and the user query are combined to create the
enhanced query EQ. Also, in this process, each new user query
is converted into an embedding matrix Q and is compared with
the clusters set D in the vector database through a routing
module. This module selects a subset of clusters K most
related to the user’s query, being |K| = γ, and retrieves the
most relevant chunks by using an indexing method - in this
case, the FAISS model [13] - to obtain the chunks indexes
vector t. These chunks, which compose the context set R
that has cardinality |K| = δ, along with the original user
query and the enhanced version EQ, are combined as the
final prompt and are provided as the whole context through a
prompt engineering process to a fine-tuned LLM, which then
generates an accurate and contextually relevant response.

Algorithm 1 shows the entire process, divided into two
parts: the first, which is processed only once to create the
clusters, and the second, which is processed with each new
user query.

[Initial Query]:
What functionality does LLDP provide in the TSN
Transport Network?

Algorithm 1 Question-Answering Algorithm
Pre-processing Block
Require: A, α, β

1: procedure PREPROCESSING(A)
B ← DataExtraction(A)
2:
C ← DocumentChunking(A, α)
3:
E ← EmbeddingModel(C)
4:
D ← BisectingKMeans(E, β)
for each cluster F ∈ D do

for each embedding e ∈ F do

Store(e, VectorDB)

5:
6:
7:
8:
9:
10:
11: end procedure

end for

end for

Online Processing Block
Require: UserQuery, B, D, γ, δ
12: procedure ONLINEPROCESSING(UserQuery)
EQ ← QueryEnhancement(UserQuery, B)
13:
Q ← EmbeddingModel(UserQuery)
14:
K ← RoutingModule(D, Q)
t ← IndexingMethod(K, γ)
R ← RetrieveContext(t, δ)
FinalPrompt ← PromptEngineering(UserQuery, R, EQ)
Output ← LLM(FinalPrompt)
return Output

15:
16:
17:
18:
19:

20: end procedure

A. Query Enhancement

In the field of telecommunications, many words, abbre-
viations, and terms can be challenging to understand [9].
Language models, such as phi-2, are usually trained with
general data, so they might not grasp the specific technical
terms found in 3GPP standard documents.

On the 3GPP website, we can find valuable information to
enhance queries with the meanings of these terms. These doc-
uments contain detailed and specialized information, making
it essential to teach these terms to the language models to help
them understand and use the information correctly.

The process of enhancing a query involves extracting the
definitions and abbreviations from the 3GPP documentation
and incorporating these meanings into the query. To achieve
this, we create two dictionaries: one for technical terms and
one for abbreviations. The glossary of technical terms includes
definitions of phrases such as "System Networking," while
the glossary of abbreviations provides meanings for terms like
"5G." These resources are utilized to expand the query and
provide better context when retrieving information relevant to
the questions. In Figure 2, we present an example of the query
enhancement process using the technique mentioned above.

[Definitions]:
Transport Network: Network infrastructure that
provides connectivity and bandwidth for customer
services.

[Abbreviations]
LLDP: Link Layer Discovery Protocol. TSN: Time-
Sensitive Networking

[Final Query]:
What functionality does LLDP provide in the TSN
Transport Network?
Transport Network: Network infrastructure that
provides connectivity and bandwidth for customer
services.
LLDP: Link Layer Discovery Protocol.
TSN: Time-Sensitive Networking

Fig. 2. The process of query enhancement before retrieving information and
passing it to the LLM for generating an answer.

B. Preprocessing of Document Texts

The texts from the 3GPP release 18 specifications were
divided into chunks of various sizes, allowing a detailed and
accurate analysis. Dividing texts into chunks is a common
practice in natural language processing, as it facilitates the
manipulation and analysis of large volumes of textual data
[14]. It was chosen to test two chunk size configurations: 500
and 250 characters. These values were selected based on the
results presented in [9], demonstrating that such division sizes
effectively increase the chosen model’s accuracy, as shown in
Figure 3.

Fig. 3. Performance of phi-2 on different chunk sizes.

After dividing the texts into chunks, each segment was
converted to embeddings, a crucial step for the language
model to understand and use the data. Embeddings are vector
representations of the texts, translating natural language into
a form that machine learning models can process. This work
uses the BAAI bge version large english model [15] to map the
chunks into numeric vectors, a model known for its efficiency
in generating robust and accurate embeddings [16].

C. Clustering Methods for RAG

D. Routing Module

To improve the effectiveness of RAG, it is essential to group
similar data, making it easier to identify patterns and trends
within telecommunications data. To do this,
the Bisecting
K-Means clustering method is employed on the embedding
vectors calculated in each chunk. This method is a variant of
the K-Means algorithm that aims to improve the quality of
the clusters formed, offering advantages in the segmentation
of large volumes of data [17]. Unlike the traditional technique,
which partitions the data into K clusters simultaneously,
Bisecting K-Means adopts a hierarchical divisive approach,
dividing the data into smaller subgroups iteratively. Figure
4 represents the difference in accuracy that justifies using
Bisecting K-Means instead of the traditional method.

The RAG routing module enhances the ability to gen-
erate more accurate and contextually relevant responses by
retrieving pertinent
information from a vast repository of
documents. This module is necessary because it bridges the
gap between static knowledge bases and dynamic, query-
specific information needs, thereby improving the quality and
relevance of generated content.

Fig. 4. Performance difference between regular K-Means and Bisecting K-
Means clustering, all performed using the phi-2 model.

Fig. 5. Routing module.

This process can be described in the following steps: at
the time of initialization of the algorithm, all documents are
kept in a single cluster. Then, the cluster is divided into two
clusters using the K-Means algorithm, i.e., B = 2. Then, all
the calculated clusters are checked in search of the cluster
with the most considerable Sum of Square Error (SSE). Then,
the cluster with the highest SSE is recursively split into two
more clusters with the K-Means algorithm with B = 2, and
this process is repeated until the desired cluster values are
generated.

The SSE was used to measure the variability within a
cluster by calculating the sum of the squares of the distances
between each data point and the cluster centroid. The lower
the SSE, the more homogeneous the data within the cluster,
indicating a better quality in the data segmentation. Using the
SSE allows us to identify which clusters have more significant
internal variability and, therefore, which should be subdivided
to improve the accuracy of the clustering. SSE is calculated
as follows:

As shown in Figure 5, the routing module takes as input
D and Q. From the former, the module obtains the centroid
of each cluster from the vector database - which can be
represented as embedding vectors - and these vectors are
compared to the embedded user entry embeddings Q using
inner products. This comparison produces a vector with a
number of elements equal to the number of clusters |D| created
during the preprocessing block. To refine this information, the
vector undergoes an enhancement process with a Feed Forward
Layer, which adjusts its size from |D| to 256 dimensions,
forming I1, which is referred to as Input 1. This number was
selected due to being an intermediate number between the
number of clusters and the dimension of Q.

Simultaneously, Q, typically of size 1024 due to the embed-
ding model used (BAAI), is processed through another Feed
Forward Layer to reduce its dimensionality to 256, forming
I2, referred to in Figure 5 as Input 2. The two inputs, now
both with 256 dimensions of size, are linearly combined to
create the classifier input Ic, which can be defined as:

SSE =

n
(cid:88)

(Xi − ¯X)2

i=0

(1)

where Xi represents each data point, and ¯X represents the
mean of the points in the cluster. This work tested several
cluster values to determine the ideal configuration.

In this work the embeddings were grouped into 18 clus-
ters, grouping those with similar values. This simplified the
identification of groups of data with similar characteristics
and facilitated the recovery of relevant information during text
generation.

Ic = αI1 + βI2

(2)

where α and β are constants. Then, Ic is fed into a classifier
layer, which is a softmax function that generates a probability
distribution indicating which clusters are more related to the
user’s query. This distribution allows the system to interpret
the relevance of each cluster to the query.

To optimize the retrieval process, the probability distribution
is truncated to focus only on a subset of the clusters K,
known as the top-K clusters. In this work, this number was
8. By concentrating on this subset, the system can efficiently
perform searches in the embedding space, narrowing down

the relevant chunks of information without needing to search
the entire space. This approach significantly enhances the sys-
tem’s efficiency and accuracy in retrieving the most pertinent
information in response to the user’s query. At the same time,
it also decreases the time to perform searches in the vector
database, as shown in Section IV.

E. Fine-tuned Model

A fine-tuning process1 was employed to enhance a model’s
understanding of context and tailor its responses to meet the
desired results. Based on the probable on-site usage, a small
model was preferable. Therefore, phi-2 was selected because
of its size, which allows us to fine-tune it and deploy the model
on small devices.

To create the training dataset, we generated a context for
each training example using RAG. By integrating the context
in the training process, it was ensured that the model could
better utilize relevant external information, thereby improving
its ability to comprehend and respond accurately to domain-
specific queries, as shown in [18]. Specifically, the context
was concatenated with the terms, definitions, question, options,
answer, and explanation of the answer, using the base chat
template from Hugging Face to make it easier for the model
to separate context, query, and response, as shown in Figure
6.

<|im_start|>context
(Retrieved context)
Terms and Definitions: (Terms and Definitions)
Abbreviations: (Abbreviations)
<|im_end|>
<|im_start|>user
Please provide the answer to the following multiple-
choice question: (question and options)
Choose the correct option from the above options.
<|im_end|>
<|im_start|>assistant
The correct option number is option (correct option
number): (option text)
Explanation: (explanation)
<|im_end|>

the answer. That dataset was only used to fine-tune the phi-2
model and was named Enhanced responses as in Figure 8.

IV. RESULTS

This section presents the framework’s performance in en-
hancing the capabilities of LLMs applied to the 3GPP Domain.
All fine-tuning experiments were conducted using Hugging
Face AutoTrain on a machine equipped with 8 vCPUs, 30
GB of RAM, and a single NVIDIA L4 GPU with 24 GB of
VRAM.

The research focused on the phi-2 model2 due to its
smaller size and shorter training time compared to Phi-3-4k-
instruct [20], as illustrated in Figure 7, as well as its better
performance, in early testings with RAG, than gemma-2-2b
[21] despite the similar size. After the development, those two
other models were tested with the whole process, separating
the gains to demonstrate the effect of each part of the system.

Fig. 7. Time it took to fine-tune the models on 8vCPUs 30GB RAM and
1xL4 GPU 24GB VRAM in Hugging Face AutoTrain.

As shown in Figure 8, substantial accuracy gains were
observed by employing the described methods, getting up to
a 34.4% increase over the base phi-2 model, combining the
RAG with fine-tuning. Furthermore, it was found that the
technique also made the gemma-2-2b and Phi-3-4k-instruct
model’s accuracy increase substantially, indicating that this
method’s gains might be generalizable to other models and
even bigger ones like Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct.

Additionally, it was found that the model trained with the
enhanced response performed worse than the non-enhanced
one, as shown in Figure 8. Despite that, this model could be
helpful because of its ability to relate the question to the 3GPP
documents and provide a better starting point for finding the
answer.

Fig. 6. Training text example.

V. FUTURE WORKS

A separate dataset was also created in which the answer
referenced the specific section in the 3GPP documents from
which the answer was derived. If the answer could not be
found in the context, it explicitly states it wasn’t found. This
dataset was used to fine-tune a more reliable model because,
with the citation, it would be possible to look up the section
in the documents and confirm the answer. To generate this
answer, the context, terms, abbreviations, question, options,
answer, and explanation were fed to GPT-4 [19] to extract
the most valuable retrievals and documents and cite them in

Although the proposed framework demonstrates advances
in question-answering tasks, there are still many opportunities
for performance enhancements. Future research could explore
novel knowledge representation techniques, such as knowledge
graphs, to improve information retrieval and reasoning capa-
bilities. Additionally, greater emphasis on data preprocessing,
particularly cleaning document chunks before converting them
to embeddings, could significantly enhance the quality and
relevance of the input data. Also, refining the routing module
to output a more focused selection of clusters would likely
lead to more efficient and accurate responses. Finally, using

1https://huggingface.co/SuLLMerica

2https://github.com/SuLLMerica/SuLLMerica

(LRC) at the State University of Campinas (Unicamp). We
want to express our profound gratitude for their support in
developing this research.

REFERENCES

[1] Microsoft Research, “Phi-2: The surprising power of small

lan-
guage models.” https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/phi-2-
the-surprising-power-of-small-language-models/, 2023. Accessed: 2024-
08-04.

[2] Y. Gao, Y. Xiong, X. Gao, K. Jia, J. Pan, Y. Bi, Y. Dai, J. Sun,
M. Wang, and H. Wang, “Retrieval-augmented generation for large
language models: A survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997, 2024.
[3] H. Zou, Q. Zhao, Y. Tian, L. Bariah, F. Bader, T. Lestable, and
M. Debbah, “TelecomGPT: A framework to build telecom-specfic large
language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.09424, 2024.

[4] O. Ovadia, M. Brief, M. Mishaeli, and O. Elisha, “Fine-tuning or
retrieval? comparing knowledge injection in LLMs,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.05934, 2023.

[5] P. Lewis et al., “Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive

NLP tasks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.11401, 2021.

[6] L. Bariah, Q. Zhao, H. Zou, Y. Tian, F. Bader, and M. Debbah, “Large
Language Models for telecom: The next big thing?,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.10249, 2023.

[7] A. Maatouk, F. Ayed, N. Piovesan, A. D. Domenico, M. Debbah, and Z.-
Q. Luo, “TeleQnA: A benchmark dataset to assess large language mod-
els telecommunications knowledge,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.15051,
2023.

[8] M.

Steinbach,

G.

comparison
https://conservancy.umn.edu/handle/11299/215421, 2000.

of

Karypis,
document

and
V.
clustering

Kumar,

“A
techniques,”

[9] A.-L. Bornea, F. Ayed, A. D. Domenico, N. Piovesan, and A. Maatouk,
“Telco-RAG: Navigating the challenges of retrieval-augmented language
telecommunications,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.15939,
models for
2024.

[10] G. M. Yilma, J. A. Ayala-Romero, A. Garcia-Saavedra, and X. Costa-
Perez, “TelecomRAG: Taming telecom standards with retrieval aug-
mented generation and LLMs,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07053, 2024.
[11] S. Roychowdhury, N. Jain, and S. Soman, “Unlocking telecom domain
knowledge using LLMs,” in 2024 16th International Conference on
COMmunication Systems & NETworkS (COMSNETS), pp. 267–269,
2024.

[12] R. D. Hipp, “SQLite.” https://www.sqlite.org/index.html, 2020. Ac-

cessed: August 2024.

[13] M. Douze, A. Guzhva, C. Deng, J. Johnson, G. Szilvasy, P.-E. Mazaré,
M. Lomeli, L. Hosseini, and H. Jégou, “The Faiss library,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.08281, 2024.

[14] A. J. Yepes, Y. You, J. Milczek, S. Laverde, and R. Li, “Financial report
chunking for effective retrieval augmented generation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.05131, 2024.

[15] HuggingFace, “Baai/bge-large-en.” https://huggingface.co/BAAI/bge-

large-en, 2023. Accessed: 2024-08-04.

[16] S. Xiao, Z. Liu, P. Zhang, and N. Muennighoff, “C-pack: Pack-
aged resources to advance general chinese embedding,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.07597, 2023.

[17] Y. Zhuang, Y. Mao, and X. Chen, “A limited-iteration bisecting
fast clustering large datasets,” in 2016 IEEE Trust-

k-means for
com/BigDataSE/ISPA, pp. 2257–2262, 2016.

[18] X. V. Lin, X. Chen, M. Chen, W. Shi, M. Lomeli, R. James, P. Rodriguez,
J. Kahn, G. Szilvasy, M. Lewis, et al., “RA-DIT: Retrieval-augmented
dual instruction tuning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.01352, 2023.
[19] OpenAI, J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, et al., “GPT-4

technical report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2024.

[20] M. Abdin, S. A. Jacobs, A. A. Awan, J. Aneja, A. Awadallah,
H. Awadalla, N. Bach, A. Bahree, A. Bakhtiari, H. Behl, et al., “Phi-
3 technical report: A highly capable language model locally on your
phone,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.14219, 2024.

[21] G. Team, M. Riviere, S. Pathak, P. G. Sessa, C. Hardin, S. Bhupatiraju,
L. Hussenot, T. Mesnard, B. Shahriari, A. Ramé, et al., “Gemma 2:
Improving open language models at a practical size,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.00118, 2024.

Fig. 8. Performance improvement of each model separated by methods.

larger language models such as GPT-4 could yield substantial
improvements, provided that careful evaluation is conducted to
strike an optimal balance between model size, computational
resources, and performance gains.

VI. CONCLUSIONS

This work presented the integration of a routing module
within the RAG architecture, combined with clustering tech-
niques, significantly enhancing the efficiency and accuracy of
information retrieval. By preprocessing 3GPP source docu-
ments through chunking, embedding, and Bisecting K-Means
clustering, the system effectively organizes vast amounts of
data into meaningful clusters. These clusters are stored in a
vector database, providing a structured foundation that allows
the RAG model to quickly access and utilize the most relevant
information in response to user queries.

Ultimately, this approach to RAG architecture leverages
the power of both the preprocessing phase, by gathering
embeddings by content instead of using formats defined in
the source documents, and the real-time processing phase to
deliver highly accurate and contextually appropriate responses
in achievable time. The experiment results show that using
smaller LLMs, it’s possible to obtain 66.12% and 72.13%
accuracy in telecom documents using phi-2 and phi-3, respec-
tively, while taking less than 12 and 16 hours of training time
for both cases, respectively.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

This work was carried out with the guidance, mentorship,
and financial investment of Dr. Aldebaro Klautau from LASSE
— Research and Development Center in Telecommunications,
Automation, and Electronics — and prof. Carlos Alberto
Astudillo Trujillo from the Computer Networks Laboratory