5
2
0
2

b
e
F
0
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
5
0
0
5
1
.
2
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

A Socratic RAG Approach to Connect Natural Language Queries on Research
Topics with Knowledge Organization Systems

Lew Lefton1, Kexin Rong1, Chinar Dankhara1, Lila Ghemri2, Firdous Kausar3, A. Hannibal
Hamdallahi3
1Georgia Institute of Technology
2Texas Southern University
3Fisk University
lew.lefton@gatech.edu, krong@gatech.edu, chinardankhara@gatech.edu, lila.ghemri@tsu.edu, fkausar@fisk.edu,
aleach@fisk.edu

Abstract

In this paper, we propose a Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG) agent that maps natural language queries about re-
search topics to precise, machine-interpretable semantic en-
tities. Our approach combines RAG with Socratic dialogue
to align users’ intuitive understanding of research topics
with established Knowledge Organization Systems (KOSs).
The proposed approach will effectively bridge ”little seman-
tics” (domain-specific KOS structures) with ”big semantics”
(broad bibliometric repositories), making complex academic
taxonomies more accessible. Such agents have the potential
for broad use. We illustrate with a sample application called
CollabNext, which is a person-centric knowledge graph con-
necting people, organizations, and research topics. We fur-
ther describe how the application design has an intentional
focus on HBCUs and emerging researchers to raise visibility
of people historically rendered invisible in the current science
system.

Introduction
What is a research topic? Research is carried out on almost
everything, so the concept space is wide and deep. It is un-
surprising that there is no universal resource that covers all
research concepts. Instead, many domain-specific Knowl-
edge Organization Systems (KOS) have emerged provid-
ing ontologies, taxonomies, lists, and thesauri of their ar-
eas (Salatino et al. 2024). These KOSs are good sources of
expert-curated ground truth. Unfortunately, in a KOS, topic
data typically consists only of strings and not semantic enti-
ties, which makes research topics a weak link in knowledge
axiomatization and research classification.

A knee-jerk reaction to this challenge is to leverage a
Large Language Model (LLM) to generate research topics,
based on a corpus of research papers, datasets, etc. In fact,
there are many tools in the area of topic classification that
do precisely that. Unfortunately, LLM generated topics do
not align well with how human beings talk and think about
research.

Alignment of natural language research topics with struc-
tured KOSs is needed for CollabNext (CollabNext 2024),
an application currently under development as part of the

Copyright © 2025, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

National Science Foundation’s Prototype Open Knowledge
Network (NSF 2023). CollabNext allows users to explore
who is working in what research area and where they are.
While this seems simple and straightforward to answer, it
turns out to be quite nuanced and challenging. Name colli-
sions make it difficult to identify the ”who”, especially for
common names or Asian names (Kim, Kim, and Kim 2023).
Organizations, the ”where”, can also have multiple names,
campuses, etc. Fortunately, for both individuals and organi-
zations, there are established and open semantic structures,
for example in schema.org (W3C 2014) or Wikidata.org
(Wikidata contributors 2024), and available persistent iden-
tifiers, e.g. ORCID (ORCID Inc. 2024) and ROR (Research
Organization Registry 2024). Research topics, the ”what”,
turn out to be more complicated. There is no universal list of
research concepts, and certainly nothing that compares to a
persistent identifier.

This paper begins with a brief overview of related work on
the challenge of organizing research topics. We then provide
a short description of CollabNext, including its intentional
design to increase the visibility of emerging researchers. We
share an example that highlights the challenge and impor-
tance of aligning natural language research topic queries
with robust, open, and structured data in KOSs. Next we pro-
ceed to lay out a plan for a RAG agent designed to meet this
challenge using a novel Socratic approach. The final section
has a conclusion and considers the next steps.

Related Work
In this section, we review approaches for automatically gen-
erating topics in scientific publications. We focus on three
main paradigms: supervised topic classification, unsuper-
vised topic modeling, and knowledge organization systems.

Topic Classification
Topic classification takes a supervised approach, using often
manually curated document topics to train models for cate-
gorizing new publications. However, obtaining high-quality
ground truth labels at scale remains challenging, forcing
many methods to build topic taxonomies from scratch (Liu,
Zhang, and Chen 2014).

The Microsoft Academic Graph (MAG) (Sinha et al.
2015) represents a significant effort in this direction. Their

 
 
 
 
 
 
methodology began with manual definition of a small num-
ber of top-level concepts, followed by extraction of 28,000
academic concepts from Wikipedia articles (Shen, Ma, and
Wang 2018). MAG implemented topic assignment as a mul-
tilabel classification problem, enabling papers to be tagged
with multiple concepts. After the discontinuation of MAG
in 2021, OpenAlex attempted to reproduce the topic clas-
sification model using historical MAG data as training la-
bels (Priem, Piwowar, and Orr 2022). During this pro-
cess, OpenAlex identified several limitations of MAG con-
cepts, including term polysemy, ambiguity, and the static na-
ture of concepts that failed to evolve with research trends.
OpenAlex subsequently adopted a labeled dataset from
CWTS (Van Eck and Waltman 2024) and integrated it with
concepts from the All Science Journal Classification (ASJC)
codes. However, obtaining high-quality training labels at
scale remains a challenge, often forcing methods to con-
struct topic taxonomies from scratch (Liu, Zhang, and Chen
2014).

Topic Modeling
Unsupervised topic modeling techniques discover common
themes within document collections by clustering similar
documents and deriving topic labels from shared character-
istics within clusters. For scientific papers, these methods
typically leverage multiple signals including semantic sim-
ilarity from titles and abstracts, citation network structures,
and shared references. Domain-specific pretrained models
like SciBERT (Hosokawa et al. 2024) have been shown to
enhance clustering quality of abstract embeddings by us-
ing purpose-built tokenizers and specialized pretraining that
capture field-specific terminology.

Similarly, BERTopic (Grootendorst 2022) uses a pre-
trained language model to generate document embedding,
performs dimensionality reduction, and creates semantically
similar clusters (using HDBSCAN) that each represent a dis-
tinct topic. BERTopic uses a variant of TF-IDF to extract
topic representations from each topic. CWTS (Van Eck and
Waltman 2024) leverages large language models (LLMs) to
generate research topic labels. The LLM receives titles of the
250 most cited publications in each cluster and generates a
label and a brief summary of the research area.

However, clustering-based approaches face limitations:
extracted topics often fail to align with established ontolo-
gies, and poor clustering quality can result in topics lacking
clear interpretability.

Knowledge Organization Systems
A Knowledge Organization System (KOS) (Salatino et al.
2024) is a structured framework that enables the arrange-
ment, management, retrieval, and dissemination of infor-
mation. These systems are crucial to library science, in-
formation retrieval, and knowledge management, offering
standardized vocabularies and defined relationships between
concepts to improve information accessibility and interoper-
ability (Hodge 2000).

KOS encompasses several key methodologies:

• Classification schemes: Systems such as the Dewey Deci-
mal Classification (DDC) (Dewey et al. 2011) and Library

of Congress Classification (LCC) systematically group re-
lated concepts based on shared characteristics, providing
logical organization for library resources.

• Thesauri: Controlled vocabularies that map relationships
between terms, including synonyms, antonyms, and hier-
archical relationships. A prominent example is the Medi-
cal Subject Headings (MeSH), which is the controlled vo-
cabulary used to index the huge amount of biomedical lit-
erature (NLM 2022).

• Taxonomies: Hierarchical systems organizing concepts
into parent-child relationships, commonly used in web
navigation and content management systems.

• Ontologies: Formal and machine-interpretable specifica-
tions that define domain concepts and their relation-
ships (Guarino, Oberle, and Staab 2009). These are cru-
cial for semantic web technologies and AI applications,
enabling data interoperability and automated reasoning.

• Controlled Vocabularies: Curated term lists ensure consis-
tent language across collections, enhancing retrieval pre-
cision and accuracy.

KOSs help to uncover knowledge from various sources,
especially in the context of big data and the semantic web.
Integrating and discovering knowledge from heterogeneous
sources becomes a lot easier with KOS, which is also very
usefu; for advanced research and development tasks. The
Simple Knowledge Organization System (SKOS) presents a
model for sharing and linking knowledge organization sys-
tems on the web (Miles and Bechhofer 2009). This W3C-
endorsed model based on Resource Description Framework
(RDF) promotes interoperability, as well as the seamless ex-
change of information between heterogeneous systems.

Despite their utility, KOSs encounter some issues, such as
how to remain pertinent in rapidly changing areas of knowl-
edge and how to ensure that they work well with other sys-
tems. (Lauruhn and Groth 2016) comment on the need for
KOSs to have adaptive management strategies that allow
them to change along with our knowledge structures.

Recent research shows promises of integrating KOS with
large language models (LLMs) to enhance AI explainability.
(Ahmed et al. 2023) demonstrated that the combination of
knowledge graphs with LLM produces more interpretable
outputs than LLMs alone, while (Krause and Stolzenburg
2024) showed that LLMs coupled with external knowledge
sources improve commonsense reasoning capabilities in AI
systems.

CollabNext

There are many potentially impactful applications which
would benefit from having a RAG agent that provides an ex-
plainable topic identifier based on established ground truth
of human-generated KOSs. To serve as an illustrative ex-
ample, we describe CollabNext (CollabNext 2024) which is
currently under development as part of the NSF’s Prototype
Open Knowledge Network (NSF 2023). This application de-
pends on open, robust, and structured data on research top-
ics.

geographical distance is a major barrier for scientific col-
laboration (Hoekman and Rake 2024). The work of (Katz
1994) shows that the probability of collaboration decreases
as distance grows, based on co-authorship relations.

Challenge: Topic Search Needs an NLP interface
During the development of CollabNext, it became apparent
that there was a disconnect between how people see research
topics and how research topics are classified by AIs. We will
illustrate with an example.

Suppose a user wants to find researchers who are work-
ing on the topic of plastic recycling at a nearby Univer-
sity. There is no OpenAlex topic that directly matches this.
Matching just for plastic yields 14 topic ids in the subfield
Polymers and Plastics. This topic could also be considered
Waste Management and Disposal which is in the subfield
Environmental Science. Or it may be the topic Biodegrad-
able Polymers as Biomaterials and Packaging which is in
the subfield Biomaterials. It may even be the case that the
user is not interested in the Chemistry of plastic recycling at
all, but rather the economics or logistics of it. Similar col-
lisions and ambiguities arise when the keyword recycling is
used. More clarification is needed from the user. This sub-
tle but important challenge can be improved with the RAG
agent described below.

Proposed Approach
We propose an LLM agent leveraging multi-round Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) to bridge the semantic gap
between users’ natural language queries on research top-
ics and structured KOSs. While LLMs have demonstrated
remarkable capabilities, they often struggle with domain-
specific knowledge and are prone to hallucinations (Zhao
et al. 2023), particularly in specialized academic contexts.
Retrieval-augmented approaches have emerged as a promis-
ing solution by grounding LLM outputs in external knowl-
edge bases (Lewis et al. 2020).

Traditional RAG systems typically employ single-round
retrieval, where knowledge is retrieved solely based on the
initial query (Izacard et al. 2022). However, this approach
proves insufficient for complex questions that require itera-
tive refinement and disambiguation, such as mapping collo-
quial research descriptions to formal taxonomic structures.
Recent work has demonstrated the effectiveness of multi-
round retrieval and reasoning (Borgeaud et al. 2022; Shao
et al. 2023; Zhuang et al. 2024), where each round of inter-
action refines the query and retrieval process.

Building on these advances, we propose a Socratic dia-
logue approach where the agent guides users through struc-
tured exploration of research topics, by asking questions of
users, rather than simply offering answers. We anticipate
that this dialog will be more than simple clarification ques-
tions. The agent should engage in meaningful conversation
to examine and understand the user’s research topic of in-
terest at multiple levels of granularity. The agent will be
guided by reasoning across the multiple KOS’s on which
it was trained. By grounding these conversations in human-
curated KOSs as the knowledge foundation, the system pro-

Figure 1: Conceptual schema of CollabNext knowledge
graph

Application Overview

CollabNext implements a knowledge graph with entities
consisting of people, organizations, and research topics. The
primary data source is currently the bibliometric dataset
from OpenAlex (Priem, Piwowar, and Orr 2022), but the in-
tention is to include other relevant data sources as develop-
ment continues. Relationships between people and organi-
zations are available directly in OpenAlex via author and in-
stitution tables. Relationships between people and topics are
inferred, since people are connected to OpenAlex works as
authors, and works are connected to topics. See Figure 1 for
a conceptual schema of the CollabNext knowledge graph.
Note, that the schema in Figure 1 includes additional data
like Grants and Patents which are not yet in OpenAlex, but
these objects could still be assigned topics via methods dis-
cussed above.

The CollabNext application is being developed using an
intentional design approach, initially prioritizing Histori-
cally Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and emerg-
ing researchers. This is a deliberate effort to counterbalance
the accumulated advantage of well-resourced research orga-
nizations, which is an example of the Matthew Effect (Mer-
ton 1968). This effect is a common phenomenon in social
systems, and can be summarized as ”the rich get richer and
the poor get poorer.” CollabNext is being designed to coun-
terbalance this bias, specifically in the social system of sci-
ence research (Bol, de Vaan, and van de Rijt 2018; Rossiter
1993; Petersen et al. 2011).

One of the ways to do this is to, by default, focus on HB-
CUs and other organization where there are a high percent-
age of underrepresented researchers. Another design deci-
sion which can help raise visibility of invisible researchers is
to not order researchers by citation count, which exacerbates
the Matthew effect, but rather default to use geospatial data
like location and distance as a primary filter. This is effec-
tively adding an implicit ”near me” search filter and showing
people who work on a specific research topic who are also
geographically close, e.g. at your same institution, in your
same state, or your same timezone. The rationale for this ap-
proach is based on work in Team Science, which shows that

vides transparent data provenance and explainable recom-
mendations.

If successful, the proposed agent would be able to effec-
tively bridge ”little semantics” (domain-specific KOS struc-
tures) with ”big semantics” (broad bibliometric reposito-
ries), making complex academic taxonomies more accessi-
ble to users who naturally express research interests in collo-
quial language. This approach enables precise mapping be-
tween informal research descriptions and formal knowledge
structures while maintaining transparency and interpretabil-
ity. Figure 2 illustrates the high-level workflow of our pro-
posed system, and we overview the detailed design below.

Topic Retrieval To effectively identify relevant research
topics from KOS taxonomies, we propose a novel hierarchi-
cal retrieval mechanism. We will use domain-specific, pre-
trained models such as SciBERT (Beltagy, Lo, and Cohan
2019) to generate embeddings for each topic node. The re-
trieval process occurs in two stages:

1. Initial Semantic Search: Topic embeddings are repre-
sented as dense embeddings of topic title and description
strings. These are retrieved based on embedding similar-
ity with the user query, using cosine similarity normal-
ized by a temperature parameter τ to control retrieval di-
versity - higher values generate more diverse candidates
while lower values prioritize closer semantic matches.
2. Hierarchy-Aware Reranking: Given the initial topic list,
we rerank them by considering the ontological structure
of topics. The reranking score combines three compo-
nents: (1) direct semantic similarity between query and
topic; (2) weighted ancestor path similarity computed as

score(t) = sim(q, t) + α

(cid:88)

βd × sim(q, a)

a∈ancestors(t)

where α controls the overall influence of ancestral rela-
tionships and β determines the decay rate with ances-
tral distance d; and (3) sibling coherence that boosts top-
ics whose siblings also show high query similarity. This
scoring function ensures that retrieved topics are both se-
mantically relevant and structurally coherent within their
respective taxonomies.

Multi-round RAG The academic knowledge landscape is
characterized by fragmented KOS resources: broad multi-
field systems that cover multiple disciplines but lack depth,
and specialized single-field KOS that provide granular topic
categorization within specific domains. Our proposed multi-
round RAG process is specifically designed to navigate this
fragmented structure through a two-phase approach.

In the first phase, the system queries broad multi-field
KOS systems such as All Science Journal Classification
Codes, OpenAIRE’s Field of Science Taxonomy, or Dewey
Decimal Classification to identify relevant high-level re-
search areas. For each retrieved topic, the LLM generates
contextual explanations by synthesizing definitions and de-
scriptions from linked knowledge bases. The agent engages
in iterative dialogue with users, presenting candidate top-
ics along with their explanations and soliciting feedback to

Figure 2: Proposed multi-round RAG design that bridges
natural language queries on research topics with structured
KOS data.

refine the search. This phase continues until users confirm
their broad research direction.

The second phase starts when users confirm topics that
have corresponding single-field KOS coverage. For instance,
in Computer Science, the system can leverage multiple spe-
cialized taxonomies including the Computer Science Ontol-
ogy (CSO), ACM Computing Classification System (CCS),
and Wikipedia’s Computer Science Subject Headings. The
agent uses context accumulated from the first phase to guide
exploration within these detailed taxonomies. For fields
lacking comprehensive KOS coverage (Salatino et al. 2024),
the system employs more stringent filtering within multi-
field KOS to identify the most precise available classifica-
tions.

Conclusion and Next Steps
We have outlined a RAG agent that takes natural language
queries about research topics and provides focused machine-
representable semantic entity identifiers based on the ground
truth of human generated KOSs. We have also described the
CollabNext application. One of the goals of CollabNext is to
construct a knowledge graph that makes visible the relation-
ships between people, research organizations, and research
topics. CollabNext is being intentionally designed to make
emerging researchers more visible and thereby help reduce
the Matthew Effect in scientific research. We further illus-
trate how the RAG agent could be used, and provided an
approach to building the agent.

The agent described here has potential beyond the use
case of CollabNext. Indeed, any application that links its
data to research topics via an existing KOS could also lever-
age the agent as a research topic ”Rosetta Stone.” Moreover,
disparate research artifacts could be semantically linked us-
ing research topics as an index, including articles, datasets,
websites, AI models, GitHub repositories, theses, posters,
etc. An existing example of this is the OpenAlex ”about-
ness” endpoint. This could lead to broader integration of re-
search knowledge and data across diverse domains using a
well-defined topic architecture. New research topics at dis-
ciplinary boundaries could also emerge and be naturally in-
cluded as domain specific KOSs incorporate new structure

Default filters: HBCUs, location priorityCollabNextHierarchy aware RetrieverMulti-round RAGClarificationEntity IDsTopic ListEconomics or Chemistry of Plastic Recycling? Q: Who is working on Plastic Recycling?ExplanationNot RelevantRelevantResearchers in Plastic RecyclingKOS (Knowledge Organization System)GenerationRetreivalResultsand data.

We note that there are multiple other data-driven prod-
ucts which are relevant for this discussion. Examples in-
clude Google Scholar, LinkedIn (owned by Microsoft), Clar-
ivate, Elsevier, Semantic Scholar, Metaphacts, System.com,
etc. Some of them are commercial and are only available to
well resourced institutions. Others leverage proprietary data
and are not well suited to open systems. Also, these tools
are more focused on research artifacts, and less on the re-
searchers themselves.

In some sense, the RAG agent serves the role of a topic
disambiguation tool. This is clearly needed for tools that
work at the interface of humans and AIs. Nuance and sub-
tlety of how different researchers think about the “same”
thing may provide insight and new results, and allow re-
searchers to see integrative work and connect with adjacent
researchers whom they did now know about.

This paper is admittedly only a high level description of
the agent. We are taking to heart the workshop submission
guidelines (AAAI 2025) which welcome short papers fo-
cused on case studies, work-in-progress, or visionary ideas.
There are many unanswered questions including
1. What happens if there is a topic that cannot be resolved
by the KOSs that the agent knows about. This knowledge
gap could be a signal of an emerging research area or
perhaps a need for KOS improvement. Some KOSs are
updated more frequently than others, so this may be an
opportunity to provide a feedback loop.

2. Would it be possible for users to explore topics both up
and down a refinement, i.e. broadening and narrowing
vertically, as well as exploring adjacent siblings (hori-
zontally).

3. How would user interactions be incorporated into the
agent’s knowledge over time? Could histories and usage
patterns help with noisy/overlapping topics, or identify
frequently asked questions that could indicate gaps be-
tween user needs and KOS data structures.
The CollabNext team has plans to build a simple proof-of-
concept prototype of the proposed RAG agent. Such a proto-
type would likely be focused on only a handful of available
KOSs, but would likely include both OpenAlex and Wiki-
data as a starting point.

Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the National Science Foun-
dation TIP Directorate under Award Number 2333737. We
would also like to acknowledge helpful guidance from the
reviewers of this submission, along with the following mem-
bers of the CollabNext Team who have helped develop the
ideas here and the alpha version of the CollabNext applica-
tion: Didier Contis, Kinnis Gosha, John Porter, Christopher
Thomas, Craig Abbey, Leslie Collins, Sufyan Baksh, Sajid
Hussain, Robert Briggs, Samarth Chandna, Sambridhi Deo,
Lazarus Egwurube, Diamond GC, Ilia Khalighi, Vidushi
Maheshwari, Ikechukwu Mgbemele, Christian Moore, Re-
jin Nepal, Mingxuan Nie, Netra Nyaupane, Nirmal Patel,
Maruti Ram Ponnaganti, Ram Sharma, Keller Smith, Sid-
dharth Singh Solanki, and Jaelyn Sykes.

References
AAAI. 2025. Workshop on A Translational Institute for
Knowledge Axiomatization. Website.
Ahmed, A. F.; Firmansyah, A. F.; Sherif, M. A.; Mous-
sallem, D.; and Ngonga Ngomo, A.-C. 2023. Explainable
Integration of Knowledge Graphs Using Large Language
Models. In Natural Language Processing and Information
Systems, 124–139. Springer.
Beltagy, I.; Lo, K.; and Cohan, A. 2019. SciBERT: A Pre-
trained Language Model for Scientific Text. In Proceedings
of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, 3615–3620.
Bol, T.; de Vaan, M.; and van de Rijt, A. 2018. The Matthew
effect in science funding. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 115(19): 4887–4890.
Borgeaud, S.; Mensch, A.; Hoffmann, J.; Cai, T.; Ruther-
ford, E.; Millican, K.; Van Den Driessche, G. B.; Lespiau,
J.-B.; Damoc, B.; Clark, A.; et al. 2022. Improving language
In Interna-
models by retrieving from trillions of tokens.
tional conference on machine learning, 2206–2240. PMLR.
CollabNext. 2024. CollabNext.io. Website.
Dewey, M.; Mitchell, J. S.; Beall, J.; Martin, G.; Matthews,
W. E.; and New, G. R. 2011. Dewey Decimal Classification
and Relative Index. Dublin, Ohio: OCLC Online Computer
Library Center, 23rd edition. ISBN 978-0910608879.
Grootendorst, M. 2022. BERTopic: Neural topic model-
ing with a class-based TF-IDF procedure. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.05794.
Guarino, N.; Oberle, D.; and Staab, S. 2009. What Is an
Ontology? In Staab, S.; and Studer, R., eds., Handbook on
Ontologies, 1–17. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2nd edition.
Hodge, G. 2000. Systems of Knowledge Organization for
Digital Libraries: Beyond Traditional Authority Files. Tech-
nical Report Report 91, Council on Library and Information
Resources, Washington, D.C., USA.
Hoekman, J.; and Rake, B. 2024. Geography of authorship:
How geography shapes authorship attribution in big team
science. Research Policy, 53(2): 104927.
Hosokawa, R.; Yamato, J.; Higashinaka, R.; Kikui, G.; and
Sugiyama, H. 2024. Reference Classification Using BERT
In New
Models to Support Scientific-Document Writing.
Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence: JSAI-IsAI 2023 Interna-
tional Workshops, 167–183. Springer.
Izacard, G.; Lewis, P.; Lomeli, M.; Hosseini, L.; Petroni, F.;
Schick, T.; Dwivedi-Yu, J.; Joulin, A.; Riedel, S.; and Grave,
E. 2022. Few-shot learning with retrieval augmented lan-
guage models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.03299, 2(3).
Katz, J. S. 1994. Geographical proximity and scientific col-
laboration. Scientometrics, 31(1): 31–43.
Kim, J.; Kim, J.; and Kim, J. 2023. Effect of Chinese char-
acters on machine learning for Chinese author name disam-
biguation: A counterfactual evaluation. Journal of Informa-
tion Science, 49(3): 711–725.
Krause, S.; and Stolzenburg, F. 2024. From Data to Com-
monsense Reasoning: The Use of Large Language Models
for Explainable AI. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.03778.

Zhao, W. X.; Zhou, K.; Li, J.; Tang, T.; Wang, X.;
Hou, Y.; Min, Y.; Zhang, B.; Zhang, J.; Dong, Z.; et al.
2023. A survey of large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.18223.
Zhuang, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Cheng, S.; Yang, F.; Liu, J.; Huang,
S.; Lin, Q.; Rajmohan, S.; Zhang, D.; and Zhang, Q. 2024.
EfficientRAG: Efficient Retriever for Multi-Hop Question
Answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.04259.

Lauruhn, M.; and Groth, P. 2016. Sources of Change for
Modern Knowledge Organization Systems. Knowledge Or-
ganization, 43(8): 622–629.
Lewis, P.; Perez, E.; Piktus, A.; Petroni, F.; Karpukhin, V.;
Goyal, N.; K¨uttler, H.; Lewis, M.; Yih, W.-t.; Rockt¨aschel,
T.; et al. 2020.
Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, 33: 9459–9474.
Liu, T.; Zhang, N. L.; and Chen, P. 2014. Hierarchical latent
tree analysis for topic detection. In Machine Learning and
Knowledge Discovery in Databases: European Conference,
ECML PKDD 2014, Nancy, France, September 15-19, 2014.
Proceedings, Part II 14, 256–272. Springer.
Merton, R. K. 1968. The Matthew effect in science. Science,
159(3810): 56–63.
Miles, A.; and Bechhofer, S. 2009. SKOS Simple Knowl-
edge Organization System Reference. W3c recommenda-
tion, World Wide Web Consortium.
NLM. 2022. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject
Headings (MeSH). Bethesda, MD, USA.
NSF. 2023. Prototype Open Knowledge Network. Website.
ORCID Inc. 2024. ORCID: Connecting Research and Re-
searchers. https://orcid.org. Accessed: 2024-11-24.
Petersen, A. M.; Jung, W.-S.; Yang, J.-S.; and Stanley, H. E.
2011. Quantitative and empirical demonstration of the
Matthew effect in a study of career longevity. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences, 108(1): 18–23.
Priem, J.; Piwowar, H.; and Orr, R. 2022. OpenAlex: A
fully-open index of scholarly works, authors, venues, insti-
tutions, and concepts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.01833.
Research Organization Registry. 2024. Research Organiza-
tion Registry (ROR). https://ror.org. Accessed: 2024-11-24.
Rossiter, M. W. 1993. The Matthew Matilda effect in sci-
ence. Social Studies of Science, 23(2): 325–341.
Salatino, A.; Aggarwal, T.; Mannocci, A.; Osborne, F.; and
Motta, E. 2024. A Survey on Knowledge Organization
Systems of Research Fields: Resources and Challenges.
arXiv:2409.04432.
Shao, Z.; Gong, Y.; Shen, Y.; Huang, M.; Duan, N.; and
Chen, W. 2023. Enhancing retrieval-augmented large lan-
guage models with iterative retrieval-generation synergy.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15294.
Shen, Z.; Ma, H.; and Wang, K. 2018. A web-scale sys-
tem for scientific knowledge exploration. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1805.12216.
Sinha, A.; Shen, Z.; Song, Y.; Ma, H.; Eide, D.; Hsu, B.-J.;
and Wang, K. 2015. An overview of microsoft academic
service (mas) and applications. In Proceedings of the 24th
international conference on world wide web, 243–246.
Van Eck, N. J.; and Waltman, L. 2024. An open approach
for classifying research publications. Leiden Madtrics.
W3C. 2014. Schema.org. Website. Accessed: 2023-11-24.
Wikidata contributors. 2024. Wikidata: A free and open
knowledge base.
https://www.wikidata.org. Accessed:
2024-11-24.