MCTS-RAG: Enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Generation with
Monte Carlo Tree Search

Yunhai Hu N ∗ Yilun Zhao Y ∗ Chen Zhao N Arman Cohan Y
Y Yale University N New York University

https://github.com/yale-nlp/MCTS-RAG

5
2
0
2

t
c
O
8

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
7
5
7
0
2
.
3
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

We introduce MCTS-RAG, a novel approach
that enhances the reasoning capabilities of
small language models on knowledge-intensive
tasks by leveraging retrieval-augmented gen-
eration (RAG) to provide relevant context and
Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to refine
reasoning paths. MCTS-RAG dynamically in-
tegrates retrieval and reasoning through an iter-
ative decision-making process. Unlike standard
RAG methods, which typically retrieve infor-
mation independently from reasoning and thus
integrate knowledge suboptimally, or conven-
tional MCTS reasoning, which depends solely
on internal model knowledge without exter-
nal facts, MCTS-RAG combines structured
reasoning with adaptive retrieval. This inte-
grated approach enhances decision-making, re-
duces hallucinations, and ensures improved fac-
tual accuracy and response consistency. The
experimental results on multiple reasoning
and knowledge-intensive datasets datasets (i.e.,
ComplexWebQA, GPQA, and FoolMeTwice)
show that our method enables small-scale LMs
to achieve performance comparable to fron-
tier LLMs like GPT-4o by effectively scaling
inference-time compute, setting a new standard
for reasoning in small-scale models.

1

Introduction

Recent advancements in MCTS-based reason-
ing have demonstrated remarkable improvements
in structured decision-making and logical infer-
ence (Kocsis and Szepesvári, 2006; Browne et al.,
2012; Xie et al., 2024a). The rStar framework (Qi
et al., 2024), for instance, has shown that system-
atic search and exploration can significantly en-
hance reasoning performance, enabling small-scale
LMs (i.e., models with up to 7B parameters) to
compete with much larger models. However, a
key limitation of these approaches is their heavy

∗Equal contributions. Correspondence: Yilun Zhao

(yilun.zhao@yale.edu)

Figure 1: Overview of the research. The top panel
illustrates the proposed MCTS-RAG framework, while
the bottom panel summarizes three key findings from
our experiments and analysis.

reliance on internal knowledge, which hinders their
effectiveness in knowledge-intensive tasks.

On the other hand, RAG has been widely used to
solve knowledge-intensive tasks (Lewis et al., 2020;
Karpukhin et al., 2020; Izacard and Grave, 2021;
Zhao et al., 2025), but its effectiveness with small-
scale LMs remains limited. small-scale LMs strug-
gle with query formulation and retrieved content
comprehension, often generating vague queries and
misinterpreting key details (Fan et al., 2025). More-
over, existing RAG systems do not dynamically
adjust their retrieval strategies based on changing
informational or reasoning requirements, which re-
sults in unnecessary or repetitive retrieval steps (Li
et al., 2024; Gao et al., 2024). For example, when
answering a multi-hop question like “Which novel
inspired the movie that won Best Picture in 1994?”,
a standard retrieval system might retrieve docu-
ments about Forrest Gump (i.e., Best Picture win-
ner in 1994), but fail to recognize the need for ad-

A textile dye containing an conjugated pi-electrons emits light with energy of 2.3393 eV. What color of light is absorbed by the organic compound?Finding 1: MCTS-RAG achieves better performance than baselines Finding 2: Concurrency + Pruning = Faster Tree SearchFinding 3: In-depth Analysis on Effectiveness of MCTS-RAGBetter Reasoning AccuracyThe answer is: RedMCTS-RAG FrameworkParallel action expansions & retrieval pruning greatly improve efficiencyParallel ExpansionRetrieval Pruning….Base LLMCompared BaselinesrStar, ReAct, Self-Ask, Self-RAG, FLARE, Iter-RetGen, Search-O1, AutoRAG, TC-RAG, IterDRAG, DeepRAGEvaluation DatasetsQA: ComplexWebQA, GPQAFact Checking: FoolMeTwiceImpact of different actionsImpact of different rollout strategies MCTS-RAG demonstrates (1) enhanced external knowledge utilization and (2) reduced hallucinationHuman analysis & Case Study 
 
 
 
 
 
ditional reasoning or retrieval steps to establish the
connection between Forrest Gump and the novel
written by Winston Groom. This limitation arises
because small-scale LMs often lack the ability to
refine queries iteratively and integrate retrieved in-
formation into a coherent reasoning process.

To address the aforementioned limitations, we
propose MCTS-RAG, a novel framework that inte-
grates MCTS’s reasoning and search capabilities
with adaptive retrieval mechanisms. At a high level,
MCTS-RAG operates by iteratively refining both
retrieval and reasoning through a search-based pro-
cess. Given a query, it explores multiple reasoning
paths, dynamically incorporating retrieval actions
at key decision points. Retrieved knowledge is then
used to evaluate intermediate states, and beneficial
retrieval pathways are reinforced through backprop-
agation. This structured search mechanism ensures
that the model efficiently acquires and utilizes rele-
vant information for more accurate reasoning. To
further enhance efficiency, MCTS-RAG employs
parallel expansion and retrieval pruning strategies
during the search, reducing redundant computa-
tion while maintaining search quality. In contrast
to prior approaches, by integrating retrieval with
search-based reasoning, MCTS-RAG is able to sys-
tematically explore relevant knowledge and reason
over it to obtain the correct answer.

MCTS-RAG has the following key features: Im-
proved reasoning accuracy: New retrieval actions
enable SLMs to acquire external knowledge and
enhance the quality of question answering (§3.2).
Optimized query formulation: The refinement
process ensures that each query focuses on specific
information needs, improving the effectiveness of
retrieval query generation (§3.3). Enhanced re-
trieval quality: Reflecting on and summarizing re-
trieved information helps reduce semantic discrep-
ancies and ensures alignment with the core problem
(§3.3). High efficiency: Parallel expansion and re-
trieval pruning reduce redundant computation dur-
ing search, greatly improving inference efficiency
without compromising performance (§4.5).

MCTS-RAG demonstrates superior performance
on various knowledge-intensive benchmarks, in-
cluding ComplexWebQA (CMQA) (Talmor and
Berant, 2018), GPQA (Rein et al., 2024), and
FoolMeTwice (FMT) (Eisenschlos et al., 2021a).
Specifically, it achieves over 20% improvement
with Llama 3.1-8B and 6% with Qwen2.5-7B on
CWQA, roughly 15% and 10% gains on GPQA,
and over 10% (Llama) and 4% (Qwen) on FMT,

while outperforming other competitive baselines.
Our efficiency analysis demonstrates that MCTS-
RAG delivers the best overall trade-off compared
to other baseline systems, achieving the highest
accuracy with moderate latency and token cost.

2 Related Work

Inference-time Scaling.
Inference-time scaling
enhances reasoning without modifying model pa-
rameters by optimizing computational allocation
during generation. A core approach involves rea-
soning diversification and selection: generating
multiple candidates (Wang et al., 2023) and choos-
ing optimal outputs via voting (Liang et al., 2024)
or verifier-guided ranking (Cobbe et al., 2021).
Structured search algorithms, such as beam search
(Xie et al., 2024b) and tree-of-thought frameworks
(Yao et al., 2023a), explicitly model reasoning
paths. Recently, Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS)
has been applied to balance exploration and ex-
ploitation in reasoning tasks, iteratively refining
solutions through selection, expansion, simulation,
and backpropagation (Hao et al., 2023). Further,
integrating MCTS with LLMs using value func-
tions (Zhang et al., 2024) or predefined reasoning
heuristics (Qi et al., 2024) has improved efficiency
in mathematical reasoning and code generation.

Retrieval-Augmented Generation. The RAG
system enhances LLMs in knowledge-intensive
tasks by incorporating external information. Query
optimization techniques, including expansion and
transformation, improve retrieval quality (Ma et al.;
Jagerman et al., 2023). Iterative retrieval methods,
such as IRCoT (Trivedi et al., 2023) and ITER-
RETGEN (Shao et al., 2023), refine retrieval and
generation. LLM-driven retrieval strategies, such
as WebGPT (Nakano et al., 2021) and Toolformer
(Schick et al., 2023), have demonstrated notable
improvements in efficiency by leveraging large lan-
guage models to interact with external tools or
search engines, thus streamlining the process of
gathering relevant data. Meanwhile, self-reflection
mechanisms in systems like Self-RAG (Asai et al.;
Islam et al., 2024) and Auto-RAG (Yu et al., 2024)
further enhance retrieval relevance by employing
iterative introspection to refine intermediate out-
puts. More recently, ReARTeR (Sun et al., 2025)
improves retrieval by reasoning over multiple an-
swer candidates with mutual evaluation. However,
its sequential processing and full candidate scoring
lead to high latency. RAG-Star (Jiang et al., 2024a)

Figure 2: An illustration of MCTS-RAG workflow for answering the question sampled from ComplexWebQA.

uses a fixed search tree for token-level retrieval
control, but lacks dynamic pruning and does not
support concurrent reasoning paths. In contrast,
MCTS-RAG supports parallel expansion of diverse
reasoning strategies and incorporates lightweight
retrieval pruning to skip unnecessary external calls.
This leads to better efficiency without sacrificing
answer quality.

3 MCTS-RAG

3.1 Preliminaries

rStar (Qi et al., 2024) is a recently proposed self-
consistency framework designed to enhance the
reasoning capabilities of language models with-
out requiring additional fine-tuning or reliance on
rStar achieves this by
stronger teacher models.
breaking down the reasoning process into two dis-
tinct yet interconnected phases: generation and dis-
crimination. In the Generation Phase, the model
proactively explores multiple reasoning trajectories
through human-like reasoning actions, including
step-by-step inference and question decomposition.
Subsequently, the Discrimination Phase evaluates
these candidate reasoning paths, selecting and re-
fining them to identify the most logically consistent
and accurate responses.

However, the original rStar framework is lim-
ited by its inability to dynamically acquire ex-
ternal knowledge, restricting its performance in
knowledge-intensive queries. In addition, it suffers
from significant latency, often requiring 4–5× the
inference time compared to Standard RAG meth-
ods. To address the inherent limitations of rStar,
we propose an integrated reasoning framework that
combines the iterative reasoning capabilities of
rStar with RAG. At a high level, our approach
builds on the iterative generative-discriminative
structure of rStar and introduces additional oper-
ations specifically designed to facilitate dynamic
external knowledge retrieval. This enables the lan-
guage model to seamlessly integrate relevant ex-
ternal information into its reasoning process, sig-
nificantly improving factual accuracy and decision
robustness. The following subsections detail the
proposed MCTS-RAG framework.

3.2 Action Space Definition

We design a set of discrete actions at each MCTS
decision point: A1–A3 from rStar (Qi et al., 2024),
along with two new RAG-related actions A4 and
A5 and a summary action A6, enabling dynamic
knowledge acquisition and enhanced reasoning syn-
ergy for improved decision-making.

Question: A textile dye containing an extensively conjugated pi-electrons emits lightwith energy of 2.3393 eV. What color of light is absorbed by the organic compound?Step 1: To determine the color of light absorbedby the organic compound, we need tounderstand the relationship between the energyof emitted light and the color of absorbed light.Question 1.1: What is the relationship between the energy of emittedlight and the energy of absorbed light? The answer is: The relationship between the energy of emitted lightand the energy of absorbed light is that they are complementaryNow that we have the [...].  The asnwer is: Red. Step 3: Given that the energy of emitted light is 2.339eV, we can use the relationship between the energyof absorbed light and the energy of emitted light toﬁnd the energy of absorbed light.The government type of  [...].  The answer is: RedQuestion 1.2: What is the energy ofthe light emitted by the textile dye?The answer is: The emitted light isin the green region of the spectrumThe retrieval process is shown in Figure 2Answer from Trace 1Blue Answer from Trace 2BlueAnswer from Trace 4Red Answer from Trace 5Red Answer from Trace 6Red Answer from Trace 6Violet Answer 1BlueConf: 0.25Answer 3Red Conf: 0.125Answer 4RedConf: 0.625 ✅Final Selected AnswerThe answer is: BlueStep 1: let's ﬁrst understand the relationshipbetween the color of light emitted and thecolor of light absorbed by a molecule.The answer is:  VioletStep2: The energy of absorbedlight is complementary to theenergy of emitted light.③④⑥The answer is: BlueStep 2: Now that we have established therelationship between the energy of emittedlight and the energy of absorbed light, wecan use the concept of complementarycolors to determine the color of lightabsorbed by the organic compound.The government type of  [...].  The answer is: Red①②⑤A1QuickReasoningA2RetrievalReasoningA3Decompose QuestionA4RetrievalDecomposeA5SummaryAnswerA6DirectAnswerA1: Direct Answer: Provide an immediate re-
sponse based on existing reasoning or pre-
viously known context, suitable for straight-
forward queries or when additional analysis
is unnecessary.

A2: Quick Reasoning: Execute rapid, incremen-
tal reasoning steps based on the current con-
text, ideal for exploratory paths or preliminary
judgments to efficiently guide the search.

A3: Decompose Question: Break complex
into smaller, manageable sub-
queries
questions, allowing for clearer problem-
solving pathways and improved reasoning
efficiency, particularly beneficial for multi-
part or intricate problems.

A4: Retrieval Reasoning: Actively retrieve rel-
evant knowledge from internal or external
sources before proceeding with the next rea-
soning step, critical for queries requiring sup-
plementary information or when existing con-
text is incomplete.

A5: Retrieval Decompose: Integrate both decom-
position and retrieval, first breaking down
complex questions and then acquiring rel-
evant knowledge to solve individual sub-
problems. This action is highly effective for
queries involving detailed context-dependent
sub-questions.

A6: Summarized Answer: Generate a concise,
structured summary that synthesizes results
from previous reasoning and retrieved infor-
mation, providing coherent and comprehen-
sive responses especially useful for queries
that demand summarization or integration of
multifaceted information.

Algorithm 1 illustrates the procedure for updat-
ing each action’s reward. To further enhance ex-
ploration, we employ Upper Confidence Bound for
Trees (UCT) (Kocsis and Szepesvári, 2006) in our
MCTS framework—a crucial method that balances
exploitation and exploration. The UCT formula is:

UCT(s, a) = ¯Q(s, a) + C ·

(cid:115)

ln N (s)
N (s, a)

where ¯Q(s, a) = Q(s,a)
N (s,a) is the average reward for
action a in state s, with Q(s, a) as the cumulative
reward and N (s, a) as the visit count. N (s) is the

Algorithm 1 R(s, a) Computation and Update

Require: State s, action a, completions {o1, . . . , oK }, log-

likelihoods {ℓ1, . . . , ℓK }

Ensure: Representative answer o∗, confidence Conf(o∗), re-

ward R(s, a)

end if

if Equiv(oj, r) then

Add oj to cluster Cr
matched ← True
break

oj ← j-th completion
matched ← False
for each representative r in C do

1: Initialize empty clusters C ← ∅
2: for j = 1 to K do
3:
4:
5:
6:
7:
8:
9:
10:
11:
12:
13:
14:
15: end for
16: Let O∗ ← majority cluster with size n∗
17: Select representative o∗ ∈ O∗
18: Conf(o∗) ← n∗
K
(cid:80)
19: R(s, a) ← 1
n∗
20: Q(s, a) ← Q(s, a) + R(s, a)
21: N (s, a) ← N (s, a) + 1

end for
if not matched then

Create new cluster Coj ← {oj}

oj ∈O∗ ℓj

end if

return o∗, Conf(o∗), R(s, a)

total number of visits to state s. C is the explo-
ration constant, controlling the balance between
exploitation and exploration.

Within MCTS-RAG, search depth limits how
many levels are expanded from the root node to
control the search range, while the number of roll-
outs indicates how many times the simulation is
run from a selected node until termination or a
preset limit to estimate its value. By running simu-
lations within a controlled depth and updating node
statistics via UCT, MCTS effectively balances ex-
ploration and exploitation with finite computational
resources, continuously refining its search strategy.

3.3 Retrieval Process

Our approach dynamically retrieves information
within an evolving MCTS reasoning environment,
enabling timely and relevant integration of exter-
nal knowledge. The model autonomously deter-
mines when retrieval is required, generates targeted
queries, and critically integrates external knowl-
edge to improve reasoning accuracy. By interweav-
ing retrieval with reasoning, we streamline infor-
mation flow and produce concise yet informative
outputs. If previously retrieved data adequately an-
swers the current reasoning step—determined by
checking whether the information satisfies prede-
fined accuracy thresholds or resolves open reason-
ing paths—the model foregoes additional retrieval,

candidate cj is the product of rewards for all nodes
along its corresponding reasoning trajectory.

Score(ak) =

(cid:80)

cj ∈C(ak) Reward(cj)
(cid:80)
cj ∈C Reward(cj)

(1)

The best answer is then determined as

a∗ = arg max
ak ∈ A

Score(ak),

(2)

ensuring that the most frequent and consistent rea-
soning trajectory is chosen. Essentially, our ap-
proach operates as a reward-accumulation voting
scheme: by normalizing and aggregating the trajec-
tory rewards of semantically consistent candidate
clusters, it guarantees that the selected answer is
both the most coherent and the highest-scoring.

4 Experiment Setup

4.1 Evaluation Benchmark

We evaluate MCTS-RAG and other competitive
baseline systems on three complex reasoning tasks:
(1) ComplexWebQA (CWQA) (Talmor and Be-
rant, 2018), which requires multi-step reason-
ing over web-based queries; (2) GPQA (Rein
et al., 2023), which tests knowledge-intensive sci-
ence question answering; and (3) FoolMeTwice
(FMT) (Eisenschlos et al., 2021b), a challenging
fact-checking benchmark that assesses the model’s
ability to verify factual claims.

4.2 Baseline Systems

Beyond CoT prompting, rStar, and Standard
RAG, we also compare MCTS-RAG with several
recent RAG variants, including: ReAct (Yao et al.,
2023b) alternates between reasoning and retrieval,
allowing the model to dynamically refine its un-
derstanding based on external evidence. Self-Ask
with Search (Self-Ask) (Press et al., 2023) with
Search decomposes complex queries into subques-
tions, retrieves relevant external information, and
synthesizes the answers to enhance multi-step rea-
soning. Search-O1 (Li et al., 2025) executes a
single retrieval step before generating an answer,
limiting its ability to iteratively verify informa-
tion. Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2024) extends standard
RAG by generating and issuing its own retrieval
queries at each decoding step, enabling deeper
multi-hop evidence gathering. FLARE (Jiang
et al., 2023) employs an active learning strategy

Figure 3: An illustration of MCTS-RAG retrieval pro-
cess (i.e., R1-R4) within one step of the retrieval decom-
position action highlighted in Figure 3.

thus avoiding redundancy.

R1: Query Generation: If a knowledge gap is
detected, the model generates search queries.

R2: Query Execution: External retrieval tools are
used to obtain the most relevant information.

R3: Knowledge Reflection: Retrieved data is
evaluated for relevance and consistency to de-
termine its inclusion in the reasoning process.

R4: Summary Answer: Refined information is
integrated, enabling the model to answer sub-
questions or advance reasoning.

This interleaved retrieval process ensures that the
model’s reasoning is continuously updated and vali-
dated against external data, thereby reducing errors
and enhancing the robustness of final output.

3.4 Determing Final Answer

At the conclusion of the MCTS exploration (il-
lustrated in the bottom part of Figure 3),
the
best answer is selected through a voting mech-
anism and consistency analysis over candidate
solutions.
Specifically, each reasoning trajec-
tory obtained from the MCTS yields a candi-
date answer cj, resulting in a candidate answer
set C = {c1, c2, . . . , cM }. These candidate an-
swers are grouped into a set of unique answers
A = {a1, a2, . . . , aN } based on semantic consis-
tency. The final score for each unique answer ak
is computed as the sum of the rewards of all candi-
dates grouped under ak, where the reward of each

Retrieval QueryGeneration"Le Mali" is thenational anthem ofMali.Mali has "Le Mali"as its nationalanthem. It wasadopted in 1960.As of February2025, GeneralAssimi Goïta servesas the interimPresident of Mali.  We identiﬁed the country that has LeMali as its national anthem. Accordingto the given context, Mali is the countrywith Le Mali as its national anthem.✅ Useful❌ Not Useful✅ UsefulWhat is the government type where \"Le Mali\" is thenational anthem? Question 1.1: What is the name of thecountry where "Le Mali" is the national anthem?QueryGenerationR1R2RetrievalExecutionKnowledgeReﬂectionR3R4Summary  ReasoningIs "Le Mali" thenational anthem ofany country?Who is the leaderof Mali in 2025?Which country has"Le Mali" as itsnational anthem?to select the most informative passages for re-
trieval, improving answer relevance with fewer
retrieval calls. Iter-RetGen (Shao et al., 2023)
alternates retrieval and generation phases in mul-
tiple passes, refining responses through iterative
editing. AutoRAG (Kim et al., 2024) automates
retrieval pipeline configuration and model selec-
tion to optimize end-to-end retrieval-augmented
generation performance. TC-RAG (Jiang et al.,
2024b) integrates Turing-complete control flows
into RAG, supporting complex multi-step reason-
ing via case-based retrieval loops. IterDRAG (Yue
et al.)
introduces dynamic retrieval–generation
loops that adapt retrieval strategies based on in-
termediate model outputs. DeepRAG (Guan et al.,
2025) interleaves deep reasoning modules between
retrieval steps to enhance multi-hop inference ca-
pabilities. ReARTeR (Sun et al., 2025) uses a
reward model and explanations to improve step-by-
step reasoning with MCTS. RAG-Star (Jiang et al.,
2024a) combines MCTS planning with external
retrieval to guide and verify multi-step reasoning.
To ensure fair comparisons, we use the same base
LLMs—Qwen2.5-7B and Llama 3.1-8B—for all
the evaluated systems.

4.3

Implementation Details

RAG Setup. To maintain consistency across
methods, we use a shared retrieval corpus and iden-
tical retriever configurations. We employ the Bing
Search Engine and LangChain for retrieval, with
Bing offering extensive and up-to-date web infor-
mation and LangChain providing modular support
for retrieval-augmented generation workflows. For
the CWQA dataset, we collect approximately 100K
web snippets retrieved via Bing using question tem-
plates; these snippets are dynamically retrieved at
inference time based on the input question. For
GPQA, we construct a static corpus comprising
80K passages sampled from Wikipedia and 60K
web documents retrieved from Bing, totaling 140K
documents. The retriever encodes questions and se-
lects top-ranked documents from this hybrid source.
For FMT, a domain-specific dataset, we use its orig-
inal associated documents (about 30K passages)
provided as part of the benchmark and treat them
as the retrieval pool. In all cases, top-10 retrieved
documents are fed into the reasoning module for
answer generation and verification. This setup en-
sures that variations in performance stem from dif-
ferences in reasoning mechanisms.

Methods

Qwen2.5-7B

Llama 3.1-8B

CWQA GPQA FMT CWQA GPQA FMT

34.6
CoT
GPT-4o
54.4
Qwen2.5-72B 44.5
rStar
55.4
Standard RAG 44.2
GPT-4o
59.4
Qwen2.5-72B 48.5
45.5
ReAct
44.6
Self-Ask
46.2
Self-RAG
50.1
FLARE
51.8
ReARTeR
52.2
Iter-RetGen
49.5
Search-O1
57.2
AutoRAG
57.7
TC-RAG
58.1
RAG-Star
59.3
IterDRAG
60.9
DeepRAG

35.0 57.3
53.0 55.4
40.6 58.4
32.3 55.9
40.6 58.4
54.9 61.4
43.1 59.4
41.6 62.4
42.6 60.9
43.1 61.1
45.3 62.6
46.4 63.3
47.5 63.1
54.5 64.4
55.1 66.1
55.5 66.7
57.9 67.4
58.2 67.1
61.3 66.9

MCTS-RAG

61.4

64.6 68.3

27.7
54.5
44.6
37.6
35.6
59.4
48.8
47.5
44.6
47.1
50.1
51.4
52.3
54.6
57.2
59.6
60.1
61.1
62.3

67.3

28.7 56.5
53.0 55.4
40.6 58.4
28.7 56.4
31.7 51.5
54.9 61.4
46.2 59.8
49.3 55.4
52.8 58.4
53.9 60.2
56.6 62.1
57.1 64.3
57.6 63.2
58.8 65.9
59.3 66.9
62.3 68.7
66.3 69.8
67.2 71.1
69.8 72.9

71.3 73.8

Table 1: Answer accuracy of MCTS-RAG and other
methods (with and without retrieval modules).

MCTS-RAG Setup. To facilitate structured rea-
soning, we configure our setup with a rollout of
4, allowing multiple steps of reasoning expansion.
Each query can be decomposed into at most two
subquestions, ensuring a controlled breakdown of
complex queries. We set the maximum reasoning
depth to 5, enabling deep but efficient multi-hop
reasoning. Moreover, in order to reduce latency
during tree expansion, we implement concurrent
action evaluations: different reasoning actions at a
given search node are expanded in parallel. This de-
sign leverages asynchronous computation to signifi-
cantly speed up MCTS traversal without sacrificing
the fidelity of action-value estimation.

4.4 Main Findings

Table 1 compares reasoning methods on CWQA,
GPQA, and FMT for Llama 3.1-8B and Qwen2.5-
7B. Our approach consistently outperforms base-
lines, demonstrating strong multi-step reasoning
and retrieval capabilities. On CWQA, it achieves
over a 20% gain with Llama 3.1-8B and around 6%
with Qwen2.5-7B. Similarly, it surpasses competi-
tors on GPQA by roughly 42% and 32%, respec-
tively, benefiting from refined verification strate-
gies. On FMT, it leads by over 17% with Llama
3.1-8B and 12% with Qwen2.5-7B, proving its re-
silience against misleading distractors. These re-

sumes more tokens per query than the Standard
RAG baseline (11,892 vs. 9,993 tokens in the “En-
able All” vs. “Disable A4” settings), it achieves
significantly better latency efficiency, running only
2.81× slower than RAG despite a 19% increase
in token cost. In contrast, rStar’s latency grows
nearly linearly with rollout depth, since it cannot
parallelize across multiple reasoning branches.

This improvement stems from two key optimiza-
tions in MCTS-RAG: (1) Parallel Expansion of
Reasoning Actions: during each rollout step, can-
didate subquestions (“actions”) are generated and
verified in parallel, rather than sequentially as in
rStar. This concurrency amortizes the overhead
of verification across multiple branches, yielding
(2) Dy-
higher token throughput per unit time.
namic Pruning of Unnecessary Retrievals: Our
framework allows the model to autonomously de-
termine whether a retrieval step is needed. If the
current context suffices, the model skips retrieval
entirely. To improve both accuracy and efficiency,
this pruning decision is guided by two lightweight
yet effective signals: (i) a retrieval necessity signal,
where the model first decides, based on the current
prompt and context, whether external retrieval is
required, thus avoiding unnecessary queries; and
(ii) a candidate similarity signa, where multiple
reasoning candidates are compared at each step
and branches with abnormally low consistency are
pruned, as they typically indicate hallucinations
or reasoning failures. This implicit gating mecha-
nism reduces redundant queries without introduc-
ing additional pruning modules. Together, these
signals enhance reasoning stability, reduce com-
putational cost, and are particularly valuable in
resource-constrained environments.

As shown in the rollout analysis (Table 2), in-
creasing the rollout number from 4 to 16 raises
token cost from 11,892 to 28,972, but latency
only increases from 2.8× to 4.5× relative to Stan-
dard RAG. This sublinear latency growth confirms
that our concurrent action expansion and adaptive
branch pruning jointly deliver a favorable trade-
off: modest increases in token consumption yield
diminishing increments in inference time, substan-
tially outperforming both Standard RAG and rStar
in overall efficiency.

4.6 Fine-grained Analysis

Figure 4: Comparison of different methods on GPQA
using Qwen2.5-7B. The horizontal axis shows accuracy,
the vertical axis shows relative latency the decoding
time relative to the Standard RAG baseline, and marker
size and color correspond to average token generated.

sults highlight our method’s superior generaliza-
tion and efficiency, especially in fact-checking and
science-related tasks. Compared to baselines like
Standard RAG, ReAct, Self-Ask, Search-O1, TC-
RAG, IterDRAG, and DeepRAG, our structured
multi-step reasoning can retrieve and process evi-
dence more accurately, and on average we improve
the performance by about 14% over the baseline
under three datasets. Compared to rStar, MCTS-
RAG enables broader retrieval, extracting critical
insights while minimizing hallucinations, achiev-
ing an average improvement of 17%.

4.5 Efficiency Analysis

As shown in Figure 4, the standard RAG system
serves as the baseline with normalized latency
(1.0×) but also the lowest accuracy (40.6%). Re-
Act improves accuracy to 42.6% at the cost of
2.0× latency and slightly lower token consump-
tion (8,884). Self-RAG further increases accu-
racy to 43.1% with 2.8× latency and 11,000 to-
kens. Search-O1 balances accuracy (54.5%) and
latency (2.8×) with moderate token cost (11,300),
making it suitable for latency-sensitive scenarios.
IterDRAG (56.1%, 3.3×, 12,500 tokens) and Deep-
RAG (57.3%, 4.0×, 13,700 tokens) trade additional
latency for marginal accuracy gains.
rStar per-
forms poorly (32.3%, 5.5×, 19,000 tokens), indicat-
ing low efficiency. MCTS-RAG delivers the best
overall trade-off, achieving the highest accuracy
(64.6%) with moderate latency (2.8×) and token
cost (11,892).

Table 2 presents the token cost and relative la-
tency for Qwen2.5-7B under various retrieval and
rollout configurations. While MCTS-RAG con-

We conduct an ablation by disabling different re-
trieval modules (A4, A5, or both) to gauge their
impact on overall performance. In addition, we

                   $ F F X U D F \                                  / D W H Q F \ 6 W D Q G D U G  5 $ * 5 H $ F W 6 H O I  5 $ * 6 H D U F K  2  , W H U ' 5 $ * ' H H S 5 $ * U 6 W D U 0 & 7 6  5 $ *  .   .   .   .   .   .   . 7 R N H Q  & R V WSettings

CWQA GPQA FMT Token Latency

Analysis of Retrieval Modules

Disable A1
Disable A2
Disable A3
Disable A4&A5
Disable A4
Disable A5
Enable All

61.3
60.5
60.7
55.5
55.7
56.2
61.4

64.6
63.5
63.9
32.3
36.3
44.1
64.6

68.1 11300
67.5 15460
67.6 16050
8884
50.4
9993
55.9
62.4
9714
68.3 11892

Analysis of Rollout Numbers

4 rollout
8 rollout
12 rollout
16 rollout

61.4
64.4
68.7
71.2

64.6
63.7
75.2
84.3

68.3 11892
68.1 16963
69.4 21860
74.1 28972

2.7×
3.1×
3.3×
2.4×
2.6×
2.5×
2.8×

2.8×
3.2×
3.9×
4.5×

Table 2: Accuracy of Qwen2.5-7B under various re-
trieval and rollout settings. Token: avg. generated to-
kens; Latency: relative decoding time vs standard RAG.

vary the number of rollouts from 4 to 16 to in-
vestigate how deeper search affects accuracy and
efficiency. Table 2 shows the results.

Impact of Different Actions. Retrieval actions,
especially A4 and A5, are key for multi-step reason-
ing. Enabling all retrievals boosts GPQA (+32.3%)
and FMT (+17.9%). Disabling A5 improves GPQA
(+11.8%) and FMT (+12.0%) over disabling A4,
suggesting A4’s stronger role. CWQA sees mini-
mal impact (+5.9%). These findings highlight re-
trieval trade-offs and the importance of recursive
evidence aggregation.

Impact of Different Rollout Strategies. More
rollouts enhance performance. Specifically, in-
creasing from 4 to 8 slightly aids CWQA (+3.0%),
while 8 to 12 boosts GPQA (+11.5%). Scaling
to 16 further improves GPQA (+9.1%) and FMT
(+4.7%), showing the value of iterative reasoning.

4.7 Human Analysis and Case Study

To better understand the strengths and limitations of
MCTS-RAG, we conduct a comprehensive analysis
of its successful cases in comparison to baseline
methods, along with a thorough error analysis.

Successful Case Analysis. Our case study re-
veals the following two key improvements intro-
duced by MCTS-RAG: (1) Enhanced External
Knowledge Utilization: Compared to other rea-
soning methods, MCTS-RAG achieves higher ac-
curacy, primarily due to its richer reasoning space
and more effective utilization of external knowl-
edge. Figure 8 clearly illustrates how Monte Carlo

Tree Search tightly integrates reasoning and re-
trieval processes, significantly enhancing the qual-
ity and richness of information used during reason-
ing, thereby substantially improving inference ac-
curacy. (2) Reduced Hallucination Risks: More-
over, MCTS-RAG mitigates hallucination risks
through detailed and explicit reasoning steps. On
one hand, the explicit reasoning pathways enable
the model to more accurately interpret retrieved
external knowledge, reducing errors arising from
ambiguity or misunderstanding (as illustrated in
Figure 9 in Appendix). On the other hand, these
thorough reasoning procedures generate clearer and
more contextually relevant queries, thus improving
the precision of external information retrieval (as
illustrated in Figure 10 in Appendix).

Error Case Analysis. Our human analysis iden-
tifies the following three primary error types in
MCTS-RAG: (1) Amplification Error: As illus-
trated in Figure 5, early retrieval errors in MCTS-
RAG can be magnified, causing incorrect infor-
mation to dominate subsequent reasoning and ul-
timately leading to a incorrect final answer. (2)
Factual Confusion: We reveal that semantic mis-
matches between retrieved text and the reasoning
process can lead to conflations or hallucinations.
Figure 6 presents details on how semantically di-
vergent retrieval results can lead to incorrect final
answers. (3) Information Overload: Excessive
additional information in MCTS-RAG can cause
certain reasoning paths to deviate from the original
question, leading to incorrect conclusions. Fig-
ure 7 presents a detailed example of some reason-
ing paths that prioritize irrelevant aspects.

5 Conclusion

The work introduces MCTS-RAG, which integrates
MCTS with RAG to improve multi-step reasoning
accuracy and reliability. MCTS-RAG not only en-
ables flexible formulation of high-quality retrieval
queries but also refines the reasoning path through
iterative tree exploration, thus reducing halluci-
nations caused by shallow retrieval or simplistic
reasoning. To further enhance practicality, we in-
troduce several efficiency optimizations, including
parallel expansion and retrieval pruning, signifi-
cantly reducing inference latency without compro-
mising accuracy. Experimental results demonstrate
that MCTS-RAG achieves strong performance on
complex reasoning, knowledge-enhanced scientific
QA, and fact-checking tasks.

Limitations and Future Work

MCTS-RAG integrates MCTS-based reasoning
and RAG to enhance reasoning capabilities, but
several errors persist. Amplification errors occur
when early retrieval mistakes propagate through
search iterations. Factual confusion arises from
semantic mismatches leading to incorrect reason-
ing. Information overload happens when excessive
retrieval results cause reasoning to deviate from
the target. Additionally, search latency remains a
challenge, as deep MCTS search trees significantly
increase reasoning time, particularly with multi-
ple retrieval steps. Action selection complexity
arises because the optimal choice among A1-A6
depends on query difficulty, necessitating a more
adaptive decision mechanism. While our current
heuristic-based action space design provides a prac-
tical balance between task complexity and poten-
tial reward, it may not optimally adapt to all query
types. We further acknowledge that dynamically
adjusting the action space could improve flexibil-
ity in more complex environments, but may also
introduce hallucinations or instability, particularly
for small-capacity models. Inefficient expansion
occurs when MCTS explores unnecessary branches
due to a lack of effective pruning based on retrieval
confidence or early error detection. Addressing
these issues is essential for improving efficiency
and reasoning accuracy.

We encourage future work to focus on optimiz-
ing search efficiency by developing adaptive ac-
tion selection strategies, confidence-based retrieval
filtering, and error-aware pruning mechanisms to
improve MCTS exploration. Additionally, inte-
grating reinforcement learning for dynamic search
policy refinement may further enhance reasoning
accuracy. Exploring ways to refine dynamic action-
space adjustment while mitigating instability for
small models is another promising direction. Ad-
dressing these challenges will contribute to the de-
velopment of more robust and scalable reasoning
models, bridging the gap between retrieval-based
methods and human-like problem-solving.

References

Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2024. Self-RAG: Learning to
retrieve, generate, and critique through self-reflection.
In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations.

Cameron B Browne, Edward Powley, Daniel White-
house, Simon M Lucas, Peter I Cowling, Philipp
Rohlfshagen, Stephen Tavener, Diego Perez, Spyri-
don Samothrakis, and Simon Colton. 2012. A survey
of monte carlo tree search methods. IEEE Transac-
tions on Computational Intelligence and AI in games,
4(1):1–43.

Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian,
Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, Christopher Hesse,
and John Schulman. 2021. Training verifiers to solve
math word problems.

Julian Eisenschlos, Bhuwan Dhingra, Jannis Bulian,
Benjamin Börschinger, and Jordan Boyd-Graber.
2021a. Fool me twice: Entailment from Wikipedia
gamification. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, pages 352–365, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.

Julian Eisenschlos, Bhuwan Dhingra, Jannis Bulian,
Benjamin Börschinger, and Jordan Boyd-Graber.
2021b. Fool me twice: Entailment from wikipedia
gamification. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies.

Tianyu Fan, Jingyuan Wang, Xubin Ren, and Chao
Huang. 2025. Minirag: Towards extremely simple
retrieval-augmented generation.

Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia,
Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, Meng Wang,
and Haofen Wang. 2024. Retrieval-augmented gen-
eration for large language models: A survey.

Xinyan Guan, Jiali Zeng, Fandong Meng, Chunlei Xin,
Yaojie Lu, Hongyu Lin, Xianpei Han, Le Sun, and
Jie Zhou. 2025. Deeprag: Thinking to retrieval step
by step for large language models.

Shibo Hao, Yi Gu, Haodi Ma, Joshua Hong, Zhen
Wang, Daisy Wang, and Zhiting Hu. 2023. Rea-
soning with language model is planning with world
model. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 8154–8173, Singapore. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.

Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and
Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Self-rag: Learning to retrieve,
generate, and critique through self-reflection. In The
Twelfth International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations.

Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and

Shayekh Islam, Md Asib Rahman, KSM Tozammel Hos-
sain, Enamul Hoque, Shafiq Joty, and Md Rizwan
Parvez. 2024. Open-rag: Enhanced retrieval aug-
mented reasoning with open-source large language
models. In Findings of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pages 14231–
14244.

Gautier Izacard and Edouard Grave. 2021. Leveraging
passage retrieval with generative models for open do-
main question answering. In Proceedings of the 16th
Conference of the European Chapter of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume,
pages 874–880, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.

Rolf Jagerman, Honglei Zhuang, Zhen Qin, Xuanhui
Wang, and Michael Bendersky. 2023. Query expan-
sion by prompting large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.03653.

Jinhao Jiang, Jiayi Chen, Junyi Li, Ruiyang Ren, Shijie
Wang, Wayne Xin Zhao, Yang Song, and Tao Zhang.
2024a. Rag-star: Enhancing deliberative reasoning
with retrieval augmented verification and refinement.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.12881.

Xinke Jiang, Yue Fang, Rihong Qiu, Haoyu Zhang,
Yongxin Xu, Hao Chen, Wentao Zhang, Ruizhe
Zhang, Yuchen Fang, Xu Chu, Junfeng Zhao, and
Yasha Wang. 2024b. Tc-rag:turing-complete rag’s
case study on medical llm systems.

Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun,
Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie
Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Active retrieval
augmented generation. In Proceedings of the 2023
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing, pages 7969–7992.

Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-
domain question answering. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6769–6781,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dongkyu Kim, Byoungwook Kim, Donggeon Han, and
Matouš Eibich. 2024. Autorag: Automated frame-
work for optimization of retrieval augmented genera-
tion pipeline.

Levente Kocsis and Csaba Szepesvári. 2006. Bandit
based monte-carlo planning. In European conference
on machine learning, pages 282–293. Springer.

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation
for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems, 33:9459–9474.

Jiatao Li, Xinyu Hu, and Xiaojun Wan. 2024. Smart-
rag: Selection using determinantal matrices for aug-
mented retrieval.

Xiaoxi Li, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yuyao Zhang,
Yujia Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Peitian Zhang, and Zhicheng
Dou. 2025. Search-o1: Agentic search-enhanced
large reasoning models. CoRR, abs/2501.05366.

Tian Liang, Zhiwei He, Wenxiang Jiao, Xing Wang,
Yan Wang, Rui Wang, Yujiu Yang, Shuming Shi, and
Zhaopeng Tu. 2024. Encouraging divergent thinking
in large language models through multi-agent debate.
In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
17889–17904, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

Xinbei Ma, Yeyun Gong, Pengcheng He, Nan Duan,
et al. Query rewriting in retrieval-augmented large
language models. In The 2023 Conference on Empir-
ical Methods in Natural Language Processing.

Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jeff Wu,
Long Ouyang, Christina Kim, Christopher Hesse,
Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders,
et al. 2021. Webgpt: Browser-assisted question-
answering with human feedback. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.09332.

Ofir Press, Muru Zhang, Sewon Min, Ludwig Schmidt,
Noah Smith, and Mike Lewis. 2023. Measuring and
narrowing the compositionality gap in language mod-
els. In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pages 5687–5711, Singa-
pore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhenting Qi, Mingyuan Ma, Jiahang Xu, Li Lyna Zhang,
Fan Yang, and Mao Yang. 2024. Mutual reasoning
makes smaller llms stronger problem-solvers.

David Rein, Betty Li Hou, Asa Cooper Stickland, Jack-
son Petty, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Julien Dirani, Ju-
lian Michael, and Samuel R Bowman. 2023. Gpqa: A
graduate-level google-proof q&a benchmark. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.12022.

David Rein, Betty Li Hou, Asa Cooper Stickland, Jack-
son Petty, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Julien Dirani, Ju-
lian Michael, and Samuel R. Bowman. 2024. GPQA:
A graduate-level google-proof q&a benchmark. In
First Conference on Language Modeling.

Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta
Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke Zettle-
moyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023.
Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves
to use tools. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 36:68539–68551.

Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Minlie
Huang, Nan Duan, and Weizhu Chen. 2023. En-
hancing retrieval-augmented large language models
with iterative retrieval-generation synergy. In Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2023, pages 9248–9274.

Zhongxiang Sun, Qipeng Wang, Weijie Yu, Xiaoxue
Zang, Kai Zheng, Jun Xu, Xiao Zhang, Song Yang,
and Han Li. 2025. Rearter: Retrieval-augmented
reasoning with trustworthy process rewarding. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.07861.

Alon Talmor and Jonathan Berant. 2018. The web as
a knowledge-base for answering complex questions.

In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
Volume 1 (Long Papers), pages 641–651.

Chuhan Li, Zhijian Xu, et al. 2025. Mmvu: Measur-
ing expert-level multi-discipline video understanding.
In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition Conference, pages 8475–8489.

Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot,
and Ashish Sabharwal. 2023. Interleaving retrieval
with chain-of-thought reasoning for knowledge-
In Proceedings of
intensive multi-step questions.
the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 10014–10037, Toronto, Canada. Association
for Computational Linguistics.

Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc V Le,
Ed H. Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery,
and Denny Zhou. 2023. Self-consistency improves
chain of thought reasoning in language models. In
The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations.

Yuxi Xie, Anirudh Goyal, Wenyue Zheng, Min-Yen
Kan, Timothy P Lillicrap, Kenji Kawaguchi, and
Michael Shieh. 2024a. Monte carlo tree search
boosts reasoning via iterative preference learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.00451.

Yuxi Xie, Kenji Kawaguchi, Yiran Zhao, James Xu
Zhao, Min-Yen Kan, Junxian He, and Michael Xie.
2024b. Self-evaluation guided beam search for rea-
soning. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36.

Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran,
Thomas L Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik
Narasimhan. 2023a. Tree of thoughts: deliberate
problem solving with large language models.
In
Proceedings of the 37th International Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems, pages
11809–11822.

Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak
Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023b.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language
models. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR).

Tian Yu, Shaolei Zhang, and Yang Feng. 2024.
Auto-rag: Autonomous retrieval-augmented gener-
ation for large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.19443.

Zhenrui Yue, Honglei Zhuang, Aijun Bai, Kai Hui, Rolf
Jagerman, Hansi Zeng, Zhen Qin, Dong Wang, Xuan-
hui Wang, and Michael Bendersky. Inference scaling
for long-context retrieval augmented generation. In
The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning
Representations.

Dan Zhang, Sining Zhoubian, Ziniu Hu, Yisong Yue,
Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. 2024. Rest-mcts*: Llm
self-training via process reward guided tree search.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.03816.

Yilun Zhao, Haowei Zhang, Lujing Xie, Tongyan Hu,
Guo Gan, Yitao Long, Zhiyuan Hu, Weiyuan Chen,

A Prompts for Each Action

A1 (Direct Response)
Template:
A chat between a curious user and an AI assistant.
gives step-by-step solutions to the user’s questions.
In the end of
the assistant’s response, a final answer must be given in the format
of "The answer is:
answer.

<ANSWER>.", where <ANSWER> should be a concise

The assistant

Usage Example:
{examples}

Instruction:
{instruction}

Note:
Please answer in a complete sentence.

A2 (One-Step Reasoning)
Template:
A chat between a curious user and an AI assistant.
gives step-by-step solutions to the user’s questions with each step
numbered.
the format "The answer is:
concise answer.

At the final step, a conclusive answer must be given in
<ANSWER>.", where <ANSWER> should be a

The assistant

Instruction:
{instruction}

Note:
Let’s think step by step.

A3 (Decompose Answer)
Template:
Given a question, decompose it into sub-questions.
sub-question, provide an answer in one complete sentence ending with
"The answer is ".
the sub-question with "Now we can answer the question:
question>".

When the original question is answerable, start

<original

For each

A4 (Transform Retrieve Query)
Template:
Given a question, generate a search query that would help gather
information to answer it.
retrieves useful evidence or additional details relevant to the
question.
search results are both relevant and helpful.
one complete sentence, starting with "The query is:
query>".

The query should be specific enough to ensure that the

Your goal is to formulate a query that

Please answer in

<your retrieve

Question:
{question}

A5 (Reflect Retrieved Knowledge)
Template:
A chat between a curious user and an AI assistant.
evaluates whether the retrieved information is relevant to the
search query and sufficient to answer the question.
a concise evaluation in one complete sentence, starting with
"Evaluation:".

The assistant

Please provide

Instruction:
Please assess if the retrieved information is related to the query
and can be used to answer the question.

A6 (Summarize Answers)
Template:
Analyze the provided Knowledge and extract key information relevant
to the Original Question.
organized format.

Present your analysis in a concise and

Input:
- Original Question:
- Knowledge:

{original_question}

{retrieved_context}

Output Format:
Point 1:
Key Points:
information; Point 3:

Relevant information; Point 2:
Relevant information...

Relevant

Requirement:
The output must be a single line summarizing all key points in one
sentence without redundant description.

B Error Analysis

Figure 5: An illustration of MCTS Amplification Error. Early MCTS retrieval errors amplify mistakes, leading to a
final answer favoring incorrect paths.

Figure 6: An illustration of Factual Confusion. Wrong understanding of the relationship between project launch and
moon landing, leading to wrong answers.

Query❌a1Error❌a2❌a4✅a3✅a3❌a4❌a4Examples Illustrating Factual ConfusionQuestion: Which U.S. President was in ofﬁce when the ﬁrst man landed on the Moon?Retrieve Query: Who was the U.S. President when the ﬁrst Moon landing happened? Retrieved documents: John F. Kennedy’s famous 1962 speech about going to the Moon. Richard Nixon’s recorded phone call with Neil Armstrong during the landing(1969). Summary Reasoning: (The system assumes that because Kennedy set the goal, he was also thePresident when the landing occurred.) Kennedy set the goal, he was also the President when the landing occurred. Incorrect Answer: John F. Kennedy. ❌Correct Answer:  Richard Nixon ✅Figure 7: An illustration of Information Overload. Too much coastline information, resulting in the model answering
the coastline length instead of the capital city.

Figure 8: Illustration of how MCTS-RAG achieves a rich reasoning space and tightly integrates reasoning with
retrieval.

Examples Illustrating Information OverloadQuestion: What is the capital of the country with the longest coastline?Retrieve Query: Which country has the longest coastline? Retrieved documents: The world's longest coastline is found in Canada, followed by Indonesia andRussia. Together, the top 10 coastlines extend a total of almost 550,509 kilometers.At 202,080 kilometers, Canada's coastline is the longest of the top 10,making up roughly 36.7% of the total length of all 10 coastlines. Summary Reasoning: Canada is the country with the longest coastline. Quickly Reasoning: (Instead of immediately asking for Canada’s capital, the system refocuses onthe coastline details) Let's check the length of Canada's coastline. Canada’s coastline isapproximately 202,080 km, making it the longest in the world. Incorrect Answer: 202,080 km. ❌Correct Answer:  Ottawa ✅Question: What is the government type where "Le Mali" is the national anthem?Trace 1The answer is: arepublic.Step 1: Identify the country associated with thenational anthem "Le Mali". To do this, we needto understand the meaning of "Le Mali" .A1A2A3A4A5A6Question 1.1: What is the name of thecountry where \"Le Mali\" is the nationalanthem?The answer is: Mali is [...] anthem." Trace 3The asnwer is: Unitarysemi-presidentialrepublic. ✅ Trace 2The answer is: Presidentialrepresentative democraticrepublic.Trace 7The answer is: Mali is a presidentialrepublic.Step 1: Identify the country associated withthe national anthem \"Le Mali\".Step 1: We identiﬁed the country that has Le Malias its national anthem. According to the givencontext, Mali is the country with Le Mali as itsnational anthem. Trace 8The answer is: Presidential representativedemocratic republic.Step2: Next, we looked up the governmenttype of Mali. According to the providedcontext, Mali is a unitary semi-presidential republic. Trace 4Now that we have the government type ofMali, [...]. The asnwer is: Unitary semi-presidentialrepublic. ✅Trace 5To ﬁnd the government type of the country [...]. The answer is: Unitary semi-presidentialrepublic. ✅Step 3: Now that we have conﬁrmed thegovernment type of Mali, we can conclude,Mali is a unitary semi-presidentialrepublic.Step 2: Now that we know the country associatedwith the national anthem "Le Mali" is Mali,[...] According to the provided context, Mali isa unitary semi-presidential republic.Trace 6The government type of  [...]. The answer is: Unitary semi-presidential republic.✅Question 1.2: What is thegovernment type of the countrywith \"Le Mali\" as its nationalanthem? The answer is: Mali is a semi-presidential republic.RetrievalDecomposeDirectAnswerQuickReasoningSummaryAnswerDecompose QuestionRetrievalReasoningFigure 9: Illustration of the effectiveness of MCTS-RAG. How further reasoning reduces retrieval-introduced
hallucinations and improves accuracy.

Examples Reasoning Correct HallucinationQuestion: Racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene is treated with Grubbs catalyst. How many possibleproducts are there (excluding ethene)? Step 1: The reaction involves racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene, a terminal alkenewith one stereocenter. Oleﬁn metathesis catalyzed by Grubbs catalyst typicallyproduces internal alkenes, possibly with stereochemical variations. Tounderstand potential outcomes clearly, I should retrieve general informationabout the reaction products formed from similar substrates.Retrieve Query:   General products from Grubbs-catalyzed metathesis of terminal alkenes with asingle stereocenterExternal Document: "Grubbs-catalyzed metathesis of terminal alkenes typically produces two internalalkene products, excluding ethene."Step 2: According to the information retrieved, terminal alkenes withstereocenters undergoing Grubbs-catalyzed metathesis typically produceinternal alkene products with E/Z stereochemistry. Racemic mixtures oftensimply double the number of stereoisomers. Thus, for racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene, I expect there will be 4 distinct products (two stereoisomers perenantiomer). Retrieve Query:Detailed stereochemical outcomes of Grubbs catalyst-mediated metathesis forracemic terminal alkenes including possibility of ring-closing metathesis,excluding etheneExternal Document:"For racemic terminal alkenes with one stereocenter, Grubbs catalyst canfacilitate both cross-metathesis and intramolecular ring-closing metathesis(RCM). Cross-metathesis generates internal alkene products, yielding fourdistinct E/Z stereoisomers due to the racemic substrate. Additionally, ring-closing metathesis generates cyclic alkene products with two more distinctstereoisomers (E/Z forms). Thus, the total number of distinct products,excluding ethene, is six."Summary Answer:  There are 6 possible stereochemically distinct products(excluding ethene). Correct Answer:  6 ✅ Figure 10: An illustration of the effectiveness of MCTS-
RAG. Based on a clear chain of reasoning, it can gen-
erate higher quality retrieval queries and final answers,
reduce hallucinations and improve accuracy.

Figure 11: An illustration of standard RAG. Because the
reasoning process is not clear enough, the final answer
to the question is an illusion and the answer is wrong.

Examples Reasoning Processes Enhance Query GenerationQuestion: Racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene is treated with Grubbs catalyst. How many possibleproducts are there (excluding ethene)? Step 1: The substrate is racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene, a terminal alkene with astereocenter at the 3-position, implying two enantiomers. Step 2: Given the racemic mixture, two reaction pathways should beconsidered: [...] Each enantiomer might yield distinct stereoisomers, therebyincreasing total possible stereochemical outcomes.Retrieve Query:  Detailed stereochemical product distribution for Grubbs catalyst-mediatedmetathesis of racemic terminal alkenes with single stereocenter, excluding etheneExternal Document: "Racemic terminal alkenes possessing a single stereocenter commonly yield twotypes of products under Grubbs catalyst conditions:(1) Cross-metathesis produces internal alkenes, generating E/Z stereoisomers.With racemic mixtures, each enantiomer independently produces an E/Z pair,giving four stereoisomers.(2) Intramolecular ring-closing metathesis can also occur, forming cyclic products(cyclobutenes), each with cis/trans (E/Z) isomerism. Considering both enantiomers,two additional stereoisomers arise.Thus, excluding ethene, a racemic terminal alkene with one stereocenter can yieldup to six stereochemically distinct products."Summary Answer:  There are 6 possible stereochemically distinct products(excluding ethene). Correct Answer:  6 ✅ Examples Standard RAG ErrorQuestion: Racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene is treated with Grubbs catalyst. How many possibleproducts are there (excluding ethene)? Retrieve Query: Possible products of racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene with Grubbs catalyst External Document： Alkenes treated with Grubbs catalyst undergo oleﬁn metathesis. For simpleterminal alkenes, cross-metathesis typically yields symmetrical andunsymmetrical alkenes as products along with ethene as a byproduct.Answer: The Grubbs catalyst performs alkene metathesis, breaking and reformingdouble bonds. Racemic 3-methylpent-1-ene, being an alkene, will react viametathesis. Typically, this reaction yields symmetrical and asymmetricalproducts. Considering the double bond location and substituents, I predictthere are three possible distinct products. Final Answer: The answer is: 3 Incorrect Answer: 3. ❌Correct Answer:  6 ✅