More Documents, Same Length:
Isolating the Challenge of Multiple Documents in RAG

Shahar Levy*

Nir Mazor*

Lihi Shalmon*

Michael Hassid

Gabriel Stanovsky

School of Computer Science and Engineering
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel
{shahar.levy2, nir.mazor, lihi.shalmon, michael.hassid, gabriel.stanovsky}@mail.huji.ac.il

5
2
0
2

t
c
O
3
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
8
8
3
4
0
.
3
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) en-
hances the accuracy of Large Language Model
(LLM) responses by leveraging relevant exter-
nal documents during generation. Although
previous studies noted that retrieving many
documents can degrade performance, they did
not isolate how the quantity of documents af-
fects performance while controlling for context
length. We evaluate various language models
on custom datasets derived from a multi-hop
QA task. We keep the context length and po-
sition of relevant information constant while
varying the number of documents, and find
that increasing the document count in RAG
settings poses significant challenges for most
LLMs, reducing performance by up to 20%.
However, Qwen2.5 maintained consistent re-
sults across increasing document counts, indi-
cating better multi-document handling capabil-
ity. Finally, our results indicate that process-
ing multiple documents is a separate challenge
from handling long contexts. We also make the
datasets and code available1 to facilitate further
research in multi-document retrieval.

1

Introduction

The RAG approach enriches prompts with rele-
vant documents, retrieved according to an input
query (Karpukhin et al., 2020). For example, given
a question about a certain historical period, RAG
techniques can retrieve documents related to the
time from a large historical corpus.

Recent work has noted a drop in RAG perfor-
mance when retrieving many documents. For ex-
ample, in multi-hop QA, LLMs struggle when the
number of retrieved documents grows, even when
presented with all the needed information (Press
et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2023; Levy et al., 2024;
Wang et al., 2024). Such deficiencies were ob-
served without controlling for the number of tokens

*Equal contribution.
1https://github.com/shaharl6000/MoreDocsSameLen

Figure 1: More Documents, Same Length. We create
various sets containing the same questions but differ-
ing in the number of distractor documents. Each set
includes a multi-hop question, all of the supporting doc-
uments that contain the information to answer the ques-
tion (pink), and varying distractor documents (blue).We
begin with either 10 or 20 documents (depending on the
dataset) as our full-doc version (left) and then reduce
the number of documents while maintaining a fixed
context size. When fewer documents are used, the re-
maining documents are extended (blue without text) so
that concatenating them yields the same total length.

in which the information is conveyed, i.e., when
the number of documents grew, so did the num-
ber of overall tokens, thus conflating between the
challenge of long context and multi document.

In this work, we address the following question:
Assuming a fixed input length, how is LLM per-

 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) MusiQue

(b) 2WikiMultihopQA

Figure 2: Increasing the number of retrieved documents can hurt performance. In retrieval setups with fixed
context windows, adding more documents could reduce performance by up to 10 percent. Two models (Llama-3.3
and Gemma-2) showed worse performance, while Qwen-2.5 remained unaffected. The smaller versions of the
LLMs (7–9B) show a similar trend as their larger counterparts but the effect is weaker. The hues of the bars
represent the amount of retrieved documents.

formance affected by the number of retrieved doc-
uments? This disentangles the challenge of long
context from the challenge in processing collec-
tions of related documents – which often contain
redundancies, conflicting information, and implicit
inter-document relations (Hirsch et al., 2023; Lior
et al., 2024). From a practical perspective, answer-

ing this question can help understand a breadth
versus depth tradeoff — i.e., whether to strive to
retrieve shorter context out of many documents
or whether to aim to retrieve longer context out
of fewer documents. An ideal experimental setup
would have the exact information conveyed in the
same number of tokens across varying number of

documents, from a long and self-contained sin-
gle document to a large, multi-document corpus.
We find that the custom sets we constructed from
MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022) and 2WikiMulti-
HopQA(Ho et al., 2020), a multi-hop QA datasets,
serve as a convenient approximation, allowing us
to explore the relationship between long-context
and multi-document comprehension in a controlled
environment with real-world texts.

Each instance in both datasets consists of a ques-
tion and a set of documents, where each document
is an excerpt from a Wikipedia article retrieved
according to the input question. Each instance is
constructed such that the question can be answered
based on only a subset of the input documents,
while the other documents serve as realistic dis-
tractors in retrieval settings, as they revolve around
the question’s topic but do not contain information
required to answer the question.

We vary the number of documents in the input
by gradually removing the distractor documents.
When removing a distractor document, we respec-
tively extend each of the remaining documents
with distracting content from their corresponding
Wikipedia article. Importantly, the process pre-
serves the position of the relevant information
within the cotext. This process is illustrated in
Fig. 1.

If the context length is the sole challenge, we
should expect the performance to remain similar
regardless of the number of input documents. Con-
versely, if processing multiple related documents
presents an additional challenge, we would expect
an inverse correlation between performance and
the number of input documents.

Our evaluation of several state-of-the-art mod-
els (Llama-3.3, Qwen2.5, Gemma2, and GPT-4o),
presented in Fig. 2, indicates that in most cases,
reducing the number of documents while keeping
the amount of tokens improves performance by up
to 10% in MuSiQue,and up to 20% in 2WMHQA.
An exception is Qwen2.5, which may indicate that
it better handles multi-document collections.

Our work has several major implications and
avenues for future work. First, from a practical per-
spective, RAG systems should take the number of
retrieved documents into consideration, as the in-
troduction of additional documents into the prompt
may hurt performance. Second, future work should
explore novel approaches for multi-document pro-
cessing, which according to our findings presents
a separate challenge from mere long context. Such

work can make use of our paradigm and data for
training and evaluation.

2 Multi-Document Evaluation with

Controlled Token Count

Our goal is to understand how the number of re-
trieved documents affects LLM performance when
controlling the input length. To this end, we evalu-
ate several models on multi-document multi-hop
question answering, which requires models to find
relevant information within a given context to an-
swer a specific question. In particular, we make
controlled adjustments to the number of documents
in the input, while preserving the position of the
key information needed to answer the questions,
and keeping the context length consistent.

Our datasets are based on MuSiQue (Trivedi
et al., 2022) and 2WikiMultiHopQA (Ho et al.,
2020), which we nickname as 2WMHQA. Both
datasets are multi-hop QA datasets that consist of
questions associated with paragraphs (20/10 para-
graphs for MuSiQue/2WMHQA) sampled from
individual documents, retrieved from Wikipedia
according to the question. Of these paragraphs,
2–4 contain the supporting information necessary
to answer the question, while the remaining para-
graphs serve as realistic distractors in a RAG setup,
as they are retrieved from related topics but do not
contain relevant information to answer the ques-
tion. Fig. 1 shows an example query, and a list
of retrieved documents, where three are relevant
to the question (marked in pink), and the rest are
distractors (marked in blue). We further elaborate
on the dataset in section A in the appendix.

Leveraging MuSiQue’s and 2WMHQA’s struc-
ture, we constructed several data partitions to in-
vestigate the impact of the number of retrieved
documents in a controlled manner. The process
involved the following steps:

1. Select the total number of documents: We
reduce the number of documents from the
original document count down to only the
supporting documents. For MuSiQue from
20 to 15, then 10, 8, and finally down to the
2–4 documents consisting of the relevant in-
formation to answer the question. Similarly
for 2WMHQA, from 10 to 8, 4, and finally
down to the 2 positive documents.

2. Choose the supporting and non-supporting
documents: We always keep the documents

that support the answer to ensure that the ques-
tion remains answerable, and randomly select
the remaining ones from the non-supporting
set. Non-supporting documents remain con-
sistent across different document counts, i.e.,
each set includes all documents from the
smaller sets. Fig. 1 shows such document
selection in the two right columns, note that
relevant documents (blue) are always kept.

3. Expand the selected documents: Since the
original documents are Wikipedia paragraphs,
we located their source Wikipedia pages and
added text preceding and following the para-
graphs to match the original token count. This
replaces distracting content from different
documents with distracting content from the
same document. In Fig. 1, we show that each
of the remaining documents is expanded to
keep the original token count, while ensuring
that information from the supporting docu-
ments appeared in similar positions across all
sets.

3 Evaluation

3.1 Experimental Setup

We evaluated six instruction-tuned LLMs from four
model families: Llama-3.3 70B and Llama 3.2 3B
(AI@Meta, 2024) 2, Qwen2.5 7B/72B (Qwen et al.,
2025), Gemma2 9B/27B (Team et al., 2024), and
GPT-4o/GPT-4o-mini (Hurst et al., 2024). Large
models were run on Together.ai3, and smaller ones
on an A6000 GPU. We used a decoding temper-
ature of 0.8, as recommended in prior evalua-
tions (Chen et al., 2021). Evaluation relied on
overlap F1 between gold and predicted outputs, fol-
lowing MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022). Prompts,
formats, and evaluation code were implemented
using SEAM (Lior et al., 2024) (see Appendix C
for details).

3.2 Results

Model

No documents

Qwen-2.5 72B
Qwen-2.5 7B
Llama-3.3 70B
Llama-3.2 3B
Gemma-2 27B
Gemma-2 9B
GPT-4o
GPT-4o-mini

MuSiQue
0.01
0.01
0.05
0.01
0.02
0.05
0.02
0.05

2WikiMultiHopQA
0.03
0.02
0.08
0.01
0.02
0.02
0.04
0.01

Table 1: F1 scores in a scenario where only the ques-
tions are provided (without documents)

sources, which can introduce conflicting or over-
lapping details. Almost all models perform better
when presented with fewer documents, with scores
improving by 5% to 10% on average in MuSiQue
and by 10% to 20% in 2WMHQA. We find that
the smaller versions of all LLMs exhibit a similar
pattern, albeit to a lesser degree.

An exception is Qwen2.5, which may indicate
that it better handles multi-document collections. It
performed similarly across the different document
quantities in MuSiQue and 2WMHQA.

Interestingly, GPT-4o performed significantly
worse than GPT-4o-mini. Recent studies show
GPT-4o-mini can outperform GPT-4o on certain
tasks (Chen et al., 2024; Nguyen et al., 2025; Alab-
basi et al., 2025). This may be because GPT-4o’s
larger parameter count leads to overfitting, while
GPT-4o-mini’s smaller size forces it to focus on
more generalizable patterns.

3.3 Analysis

To contextualize our results, we created additional
versions of our data, discussed below along with
the respective findings.

Contamination does not appear to affect our re-
sults. To test whether the models relied on mem-
orization, we evaluated them using only the ques-
tions, without any retrieved context. All models
performed poorly (≈ 0.02 F1), reducing concerns
about data contamination. Results in Table 1.

Our key findings (Fig. 2) reveal that in a retrieval
setup, LLMs suffer when presented with more doc-
uments, even when the total context length is the
same. This may be due to the unique challenges
in multi-document processing, which involves pro-
cessing information that is spread across multiple

2A small counterpart to Llama-3.3 was not available at the

time of evaluation.

3https://www.together.ai

Behavior is similar across instances with differ-
ent amounts of tokens. We evaluate the perfor-
mance for instances with different context lengths.
Although we keep the number of tokens constant
across the different multiplicities of documents,
each question and its associated documents have a
different token count. To further explore whether
there is any difference in performance for instances
with different lengths, we check the performance

as the number of documents increases for different
token bins (each bin describes a different range of
number of tokens). We observe that for different
token bins, the behavior remains the same: as the
number of documents increases, the performance
degrades. We elaborate in the section B.4 in the
appendix.

4 Conclusions

We assess the challenges of multi-document re-
trieval tasks when varying the number of docu-
ments. Our results indicate that input that includes
more documents complicates the task in an envi-
ronment of retrieval settings, highlighting the need
for retrieval systems to balance relevance and di-
versity to minimize conflicts. Future models could
benefit from mechanisms to identify and discard
conflicting information while leveraging document
variety.

5 Limitations

This study does not address prompt variations or
the effects of data order within inputs. Future work
should explore alternative datasets to ensure more
robust evaluations. While our experiments focused
on extreme scenarios (highly distracting or ran-
dom contexts) and document counts between 2–20,
future research should investigate more nuanced
setups and larger document sets to better reflect
real-world conditions. All datasets from this study
will be publicly available upon publication for fur-
ther research in multi-document processing.

References

AI@Meta. 2024. Llama 3 model card.

Nouf Alabbasi, Omar Erak, Omar Alhussein, Ismail
Lotfi, Sami Muhaidat, and Mérouane Debbah. 2025.
Teleoracle: Fine-tuned retrieval-augmented genera-
tion with long-context support for networks. IEEE
Internet of Things Journal.

Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming
Yuan, Henrique Ponde De Oliveira Pinto, Jared Ka-
plan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, et al. 2021. Evaluating large
language models trained on code. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2107.03374.

Yongchao Chen, Harsh Jhamtani, Srinagesh Sharma,
Chuchu Fan, and Chi Wang. 2024. Steering large
language models between code execution and textual
reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.03524.

Eran Hirsch, Valentina Pyatkin, Ruben Wolhandler, Avi
Caciularu, Asi Shefer, and Ido Dagan. 2023. Re-
visiting sentence union generation as a testbed for
text consolidation. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023, pages
7038–7058, Toronto, Canada. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.

Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara,
and Akiko Aizawa. 2020. Constructing a multi-hop
qa dataset for comprehensive evaluation of reasoning
steps. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.01060.

Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam
Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Os-
trow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford,
et al. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276.

Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-
domain question answering. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6769–6781,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Mosh Levy, Alon Jacoby, and Yoav Goldberg. 2024.
Same task, more tokens: the impact of input length
on the reasoning performance of large language mod-
els.

Gili Lior, Avi Caciularu, Arie Cattan, Shahar Levy, Ori
Shapira, and Gabriel Stanovsky. 2024. Seam: A
stochastic benchmark for multi-document tasks.

Nelson F. Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-
jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy
Liang. 2023. Lost in the middle: How language
models use long contexts. Transactions of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics, 12:157–173.

Quoc-Toan Nguyen, Josh Nguyen, Tuan Pham, and
William John Teahan. 2025.
Leveraging large
language models in detecting anti-lgbtqia+ user-
generated texts. In Proceedings of the Queer in AI
Workshop, pages 26–34.

Ofir Press, Muru Zhang, Sewon Min, Ludwig Schmidt,
Noah A Smith, and Mike Lewis. 2022. Measuring
and narrowing the compositionality gap in language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03350.

Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang,
Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan
Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin
Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai
Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu,
Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui
Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu
Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan,
Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu,
Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. 2025.
Qwen2.5 technical report.

Gemma Team, Thomas Mesnard, Cassidy Hardin,
Robert Dadashi, Surya Bhupatiraju, Shreya Pathak,
Laurent Sifre, Morgane Rivière, Mihir Sanjay Kale,
Juliette Love, et al. 2024. Gemma: Open models
based on gemini research and technology. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.08295.

Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot,
and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. Musique: Multihop
questions via single-hop question composition.

Minzheng Wang, Longze Chen, Cheng Fu, Shengyi
Liao, Xinghua Zhang, Bingli Wu, Haiyang Yu, Nan
Xu, Lei Zhang, Run Luo, Yunshui Li, Min Yang,
Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2024. Leave no docu-
ment behind: Benchmarking long-context llms with
extended multi-doc qa.

An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng,
Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, et al. 2024. Qwen2
technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10671.

References

AI@Meta. 2024. Llama 3 model card.

Nouf Alabbasi, Omar Erak, Omar Alhussein, Ismail
Lotfi, Sami Muhaidat, and Mérouane Debbah. 2025.
Teleoracle: Fine-tuned retrieval-augmented genera-
tion with long-context support for networks. IEEE
Internet of Things Journal.

Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming
Yuan, Henrique Ponde De Oliveira Pinto, Jared Ka-
plan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, et al. 2021. Evaluating large
language models trained on code. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2107.03374.

Yongchao Chen, Harsh Jhamtani, Srinagesh Sharma,
Chuchu Fan, and Chi Wang. 2024. Steering large
language models between code execution and textual
reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.03524.

Eran Hirsch, Valentina Pyatkin, Ruben Wolhandler, Avi
Caciularu, Asi Shefer, and Ido Dagan. 2023. Re-
visiting sentence union generation as a testbed for
text consolidation. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023, pages
7038–7058, Toronto, Canada. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.

Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara,
and Akiko Aizawa. 2020. Constructing a multi-hop
qa dataset for comprehensive evaluation of reasoning
steps. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.01060.

Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam
Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Os-
trow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford,
et al. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276.

Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-
domain question answering. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6769–6781,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Mosh Levy, Alon Jacoby, and Yoav Goldberg. 2024.
Same task, more tokens: the impact of input length
on the reasoning performance of large language mod-
els.

Gili Lior, Avi Caciularu, Arie Cattan, Shahar Levy, Ori
Shapira, and Gabriel Stanovsky. 2024. Seam: A
stochastic benchmark for multi-document tasks.

Nelson F. Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-
jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy
Liang. 2023. Lost in the middle: How language
models use long contexts. Transactions of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics, 12:157–173.

Quoc-Toan Nguyen, Josh Nguyen, Tuan Pham, and
William John Teahan. 2025.
Leveraging large
language models in detecting anti-lgbtqia+ user-
generated texts. In Proceedings of the Queer in AI
Workshop, pages 26–34.

Ofir Press, Muru Zhang, Sewon Min, Ludwig Schmidt,
Noah A Smith, and Mike Lewis. 2022. Measuring
and narrowing the compositionality gap in language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03350.

Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang,
Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan
Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin
Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai
Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu,
Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui
Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu
Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan,
Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu,
Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. 2025.
Qwen2.5 technical report.

Gemma Team, Thomas Mesnard, Cassidy Hardin,
Robert Dadashi, Surya Bhupatiraju, Shreya Pathak,
Laurent Sifre, Morgane Rivière, Mihir Sanjay Kale,
Juliette Love, et al. 2024. Gemma: Open models
based on gemini research and technology. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.08295.

Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot,
and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. Musique: Multihop
questions via single-hop question composition.

Minzheng Wang, Longze Chen, Cheng Fu, Shengyi
Liao, Xinghua Zhang, Bingli Wu, Haiyang Yu, Nan
Xu, Lei Zhang, Run Luo, Yunshui Li, Min Yang,
Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2024. Leave no docu-
ment behind: Benchmarking long-context llms with
extended multi-doc qa.

An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng,
Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, et al. 2024. Qwen2
technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10671.

A Datasets

use

We
two Multi-Hop QA datasets:
MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022) and 2Wiki-
MultiHopQA (Ho et al., 2020), which we
nickname as 2WMHQA. Both datasets consist
of a set of questions associated with documents
mined from Wikipedia. The documents are split
between those that contain relevant knowledge
to solve the question and distractors that contain
similar details but not knowledge that is directly
relevant to answering the question.

MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022), a multi-hop QA
dataset whose validation set consists of 2,417 an-
swerable questions. Each question is associated
with 20 paragraphs sampled from individual docu-
ments, retrieved from Wikipedia according to the
question. Of these paragraphs, 2–4 contain the
supporting information necessary to answer the
question, while the remaining paragraphs serve as
realistic distractors in a RAG setup, as they are
retrieved from related topics but do not contain
relevant information to answer the question. The
mean token count for questions with their associ-
ated documents is 2,400 tokens per instance.

Similarly, 2WMHQA is a multi-hop QA dataset
which is composed of questions with associated
documents, where only a subset are relevant to an-
swering the question. 2WMHQA’s validation set
consists of 12,576 answerable questions. Differ-
ently from MuSiQue, each question is associated
with only 10 paragraphs sampled from individual
documents retrieved from Wikipedia. Of these
paragraphs, only 2 contain the supporting infor-
mation necessary to answer the question, while
the rest are distractors. In our setup, we choose
questions with associated documents that are above
1,500 tokens, which yields a final set of 994 ques-
tions. The mean token count for an instance in this
dataset is 1,845 tokens.

B Additional Analysis

B.1 Random distractors yield inconsistent

behavior.

We evaluate all models against versions of the
two datasets where we use randomly selected
Wikipedia paragraphs instead of retrieved distrac-
tors. As shown in Fig. 3, unlike with the original

Model

Qwen-2.5 72B
Qwen-2.5 7B
Llama-3.3 70B
Llama-3.2 3B
Gemma-2 27B
Gemma-2 9B
GPT-4o
GPT-4o-mini

Supporting
documents only

MuSiQue
0.45
0.23
0.54
0.15
0.52
0.50
0.35
0.62

2WikiMultiHopQA
0.51
0.29
0.61
0.20
0.57
0.53
0.20
0.65

Table 2: F1 scores for the large and small versions of
each model in the scenario only the supporting docu-
ments are provided (without expanding the context).

Token Bin
0 - 2000
2000 - 2500
2500 - 3000
3000+

2-4 Docs
0.45
0.38
0.37
0.30

8 Docs
0.44
0.38
0.35
0.29

10 Docs
0.45
0.35
0.35
0.26

15 Docs
0.41
0.32
0.30
0.28

20 Docs
0.40
0.31
0.28
0.28

Table 3: F1 scores for Llama-3.1 with 70B parameters
performance on MuSiQue. We clustered the different in-
stances in MuSiQue according to the number of tokens.
We observe that the model’s performance degraded as
we increased the number of documents, a pattern that
occurred across the different bins.

dataset, we observe more nuanced phenomena. For
MuSiQue with the large LLM versions, the models’
performance improves as more documents with
random distractors appear within the input. How-
ever, for 2WMHQA, the performance degrades
significantly as more random distractors are added.
This suggests that the models’ behavior varies sig-
nificantly when using random distractors compared
to retrieved ones.

We believe the main reason for the difference
in performance between the datasets lies in the
positive document length: the retrieval content, al-
though it does not contain the answer, still contains
relevant information for answering the question.
A positive document in MusiQue is around ten
sentences, while a positive document in 2WikiMul-
tihopQA contains only two sentences. Since the
positive document is shorter, the model may bene-
fit more from additional knowledge from retrieved
documents, even if they do not include the actual
answer. Therefore, for MusiQue with longer evi-
dence, the model is less reliant on distracting con-
tent, while in 2WikiMultihopQA, where the pos-
itive document is only two sentences, the knowl-
edge in the retrieved documents might be crucial.

(a) MusiQue

Figure 3: The effects of adding non-related documents. When adding irrelevant documents, LLMs’ performance
improves across models for MuSiQue while for 2WMHQA it produces significant degradation in performance.

(b) 2WikiMultihopQA

B.2 Additional context hurts performance.

B.3 Observed pattern applies to additional

We test the performance when models are given
only the supporting documents, thus providing a
much shorter context and eliminating any distract-
ing content. The performance of the LLMs on this
set was significantly higher compared to the exper-
imental sets that contained external information.
Full results are shown in Table 2 in the appendix.

variants

We experimented with two additional model vari-
ants: Qwen-2 7B/72B(Yang et al., 2024) and
Llama-3.1 8B/72B(AI@Meta, 2024). The ob-
served trends remain consistent across different
model versions. Qwen-2 demonstrates robustness
as document count increases, suggesting it is bet-
ter suited for multi-document processing, while
Llama-3.1 shows a 10% performance decrease, as

seen in Figure 4.

We also tested these variants with random dis-
tractors. Both Qwen-2 and Llama-3.1 exhibit simi-
lar patterns to their advanced counterparts: perfor-
mance improves on MuSiQue with random docu-
ments, while results on 2WMHQA degrade signif-
icantly as document count increases. Results for
random distractors can be seen in Figure 5.

B.4 Behavior is similar across instances with

different amounts of tokens

We evaluate the performance of the models for in-
stances with different context lengths. Although
we keep the number of tokens constant across the
different multiplicities of documents, each ques-
tion and its associated documents have a different
token count. To further explore whether there is
any difference in performance for instances with
different lengths, we cluster the predictions of
Llama-3.1 with 70B parameters on the MuSiQue
dataset according to their number of tokens. Then
we check the model performance of each cluster
across different numbers of documents. We ob-
serve that for each token cluster, the performance
still degrades independently of the token count. In
addition, we observe that the performance is higher
when the number of tokens is lower. Results are
presented in Table 3 in the appendix.

C prompt

We use prompt 1 for all model and document quan-
tities taken from SEAM (Lior et al., 2024).

(a) MusiQue

(b) 2WikiMultihopQA

Figure 4: Performance of previous model variants
with increasing retrieved documents. We tested ear-
lier model versions (Llama-3.1 and Qwen-2) in retrieval
settings with fixed context windows while adding more
documents. Our findings were consistent with the latest
model versions. Llama-3.1 showed performance reduc-
tions of up to 10%, similar to Llama-3.3, while Qwen-2
remained unaffected, consistent with Qwen-2.5’s behav-
ior.

In this task, you are presented with a question

and 20 documents that contain information
related to the question. Your goal is to
deduce your answer solely from the provided
documents. You must not use any external
data sources or prior knowledge.

- Carefully read and analyze each document.
- Identify relevant information to accurately

answer the question.

- Formulate a short, concise, and precise answer.

- Exclude irrelevant details from your answer.

Output format:
Return your answer in the following JSON

dictionary structure:

- If the provided documents contain the answer:
{

"is_answerable": true,
"answer_content": "Your concise answer derived

directly from the documents."

}

- If the provided documents do NOT contain

sufficient information to answer the
question:

{

}

"is_answerable": false

Important:
- Ensure that your answer strictly adheres to

the information in the provided documents.

- Do not include speculation, external facts, or

personal interpretations.

Listing 1: Inference prompt

(a) MusiQue

(b) 2WikiMultihopQA

Figure 5: The effects of adding non-related docu-
ments for previous variants. Similarly to the latest
variants, when adding irrelevant documents, the LLMs’
performance improves across models for MuSiQue
while for 2WikiMultiHopQA it produces significant
degradation in performance.