ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of
Heterogeneous Data Sources

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1
1Key Laboratory of High Confidence Software Technologies, CS, Peking University, Beijing, China
2Theory Lab, Central Research Institute, 2012 Labs, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd, Huawei Research, China
wfl00014@pku.edu.cn,{chenjiazun,zhanyirui}@stu.pku.edu.cn,zsf030826@163.com
{jiangweipeng,zhang.chaorui,harvey.hanwei,baibo8}@huawei.com,gaojun@pku.edu.cn

5
2
0
2

r
a

M
2

]

R

I
.
s
c
[

1
v
1
7
2
6
0
.
4
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

ABSTRACT
Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant po-
tential in performing question-answering (QA) tasks. Retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) enhances the reliability and precision
of LLMs through the integration of external evidence beyond their
training data. The supporting evidence is retrieved from external
sources, including web pages, databases, and knowledge graphs,
among other structured and unstructured data sources. While ef-
fective in many scenarios, current RAG methods require dedicated
retrieval agents for individual data sources to optimize retrieval
quality. Such an agent-specific strategy presents significant chal-
lenges in low-resource or black-box environments and complicates
operations when evidence is fragmented across sources.

To address the above limitations, we propose ER-RAG, a frame-
work designed to enable RAG systems to integrate information
from multiple heterogeneous data sources. ER-RAG adopts the
generalized Entity-Relationship (ER) model to represent evidence
across diverse physical data forms, inspired by the observation
of restrictive access patterns in the RAG context. The framework
encapsulates different data sources with ER-based unified applica-
tion programming interfaces (APIs), allowing entity retrieval and
relationship querying through standardized 𝐺𝐸𝑇 and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 opera-
tions. Moreover, ER-RAG employs a two-stage generation process
for API chain construction: in the first stage, a direct preference
optimization-tuned module identifies optimal sources, and in the
second stage, a dedicated module generates API chains based on the
schema of the selected sources. This unified access pattern enables
ER-RAG to accumulate extensive training samples for module fine-
tuning while facilitating seamless integration across diverse data
sources. A previous version of ER-RAG, tailored exclusively to the
MockAPI and the provided web pages, won first place in all three
tracks of the 2024 KDDCup CRAG Challenge. Experimental results
demonstrate that ER-RAG, utilizing an 8B LLM backbone, achieves
performance comparable to commercial RAG pipelines built on
state-of-the-art LLM backbones. ER-RAG also surpasses other hy-
brid source competitors by 3.1% in LLM score and accelerates the
retrieval process by 5.5X.

1 INTRODUCTION
Large language models (LLMs), typically pre-trained on extensive
data, have led to significant advancements in various natural lan-
guage processing tasks, particularly in question-answering (QA)
systems [5]. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as

∗ Equal Contribution. †Corresponding Authors.

Figure 1: Existing RAGs vs. ER-RAG: Traditional RAG creates
separate agents per source, while ER-RAG uses ER modeling
to unify integration via ER API.

an effective approach, requiring minimal to no additional training.
RAG is particularly valuable when the desired knowledge lies out-
side the LLMs’ training corpus [18, 45]. Specifically, RAG employs
a retriever component to search for and extract relevant evidence
from external data sources. The evidence is then integrated into
the LLM’s context window to enhance its generation capabilities.
Real-world RAG applications encounter diverse external data
sources and their various combinations [23, 37]. Web pages, includ-
ing news articles and blog posts [28], serve as sources of dynamic,
real-time information. Databases provide structured data reposito-
ries, particularly for organizational records such as inventory and
customer information [3]. Knowledge graphs facilitate extracting
semantically rich and interconnected knowledge, with Wikipedia
serving as a prominent example [41]. Additionally, closed-source
data sources, e.g., web service for querying stock information, typ-
ically return structured JSON-formatted information in response
to entity-specific queries [4]. While specific data sources excel at
certain queries, multi-source QA tasks (e.g., merging corporate and
open-web data) inherently require cross-source evidence.

Existing RAG systems adopt strategies tailored to the charac-
teristics of different data sources, as illustrated in Figure 1. For
web pages, the content is pre-processed and chunked into smaller
pieces, and the chunks are matched with the query using vector-
based semantic similarity to identify relevant information [28]. In
some cases, more advanced approaches, such as graph-based rela-
tion modeling [41], are employed to capture complex relationships
within the chunks. For databases, existing methods either convert
database content into a vector database for semantic matching [24]
or generate SQL queries to extract the required information [41].
For knowledge graphs, existing methods often use vector-based re-
trieval to extract relevant nodes or subgraphs [21], and some other
systems deploy agents that traverse nodes and edges to gather in-
formation [33, 41]. These diverse techniques enable RAG systems
to adapt to the unique requirements of each data source.

QueryWeb PageKnowledge GraphDatabaseQueryER AgentRetrieve separatelyAll Input to LLMWeb PageKnowledge GraphDatabaseRetrieve from different sources in a uniform wayExistingRAGsER-RAGEntity-Relationship (ER) modelWeb AgentKG AgentSQL AgentLLMLLM 
 
 
 
 
 
While effective in certain scenarios, existing RAG systems face
significant challenges in handling heterogeneous sources. First,
the separate heterogeneous data retrievers increase more
training and maintenance difficulty. As access methods vary
among multiple sources, distinct training sets must be prepared
for each retriever, leading to limited training data for individual
sources under fixed computational and maintenance costs. These
resource constraints further limit the adaptation of the RAG system
to new data sources.

Second, information interaction between different data
sources remains challenging. For queries requiring evidence
from multiple data sources, e.g., 𝑆1 and 𝑆2, simply combining their
respective retrieval results may lead to irrelevant information being
retrieved and erroneous answers being generated. An alternative
approach involves developing a complex answering agent that
generates multiple queries on one source (e.g., 𝑆1) based on query
results from another source (e.g., 𝑆2), which substantially increases
computational and operational costs.

Third, choosing a proper data source combination to en-
hance both efficiency and accuracy in source selection re-
mains a critical challenge. Since evidence relevant to a given
query may exist across different sources, including the LLM itself,
which incurs no external retrieval cost, or external sources with
varying access costs (e.g., open search engines being more costly
than internal databases), it is crucial to carefully select the most
appropriate sources for retrieval. While prior work [1] has explored
the use of self-reflection to determine whether retrieval is necessary,
the challenge of balancing efficiency and accuracy when retrieving
from multiple sources remains under-explored.

We observe that RAG excels at handling knowledge-intensive
tasks [22], where the evidence required in RAG can be reduced to
the location of entities and their relationships [3], e.g., fetching the
age of a person from Wikipedia, fetching the student number of a
particular student’s name from a database, and retrieving the entity
(person) that has a certain relationship (author) with the second
entity (book). With full consideration of such characteristics, we
leverage the classical ER concept model [10], and propose a unified
ER-based API over heterogeneous data sources, regardless of their
physical format. In practice, both open-box sources such as DB,
Wikipedia, and WEB, and closed-box sources can fit into the unified
API. Such unified APIs enable training a single retrieval module
to perform operations across the selected sources using a single
training dataset. The key contributions to the above challenges are
listed as follows:

1. ER-RAG standardizes APIs for multiple data sources, whose
generalization is backed up by the ER model [10]. The APIs
consist of a 𝐺𝐸𝑇 and a 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 component. The 𝐺𝐸𝑇 component
describes querying entities from a certain data source, filtering
some of the entities by conditions, and getting their desired
attributes. Provided with a consistent interface, LLMs can
perform reasoning more effectively.

2. ER-RAG introduces two-stage generation for the chain of APIs,
in which the proper sources are first selected by a module fine-
tuned by DPO to boost efficiency and accuracy, and the chains
of APIs are then generated by another module with the schema
of the selected source via the prompts. Such a separation makes
the module fine-tuning easier, and lowers the context length of

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1

the generation module with a more concise schema. ER-RAG
also adopts a post-processing module to manipulate collected
data and maintain system expressiveness.

3. Our experimental results indicate that ER-RAG achieves per-
formance comparable to source-specific RAG systems while
significantly enhancing the accuracy and efficiency of multi-
source QA tasks. Specifically, ER-RAG demonstrates a 3.1%
improvement in LLM scores over other hybrid source competi-
tors and accelerates the retrieval process by 5.5X. ER-RAG also
show robust generalization capabilities, effectively adapting
to datasets that differ from its original training data. These
results highlight ER-RAG’s ability to bridge the gap between
heterogeneous data sources and advanced reasoning capabili-
ties in LLMs, showcasing its potential as a unified framework
for integrating diverse data sources.

The paper proceeds as follows: Section 2 reviews related work,
Section 3 details unified APIs, Section 4 outlines ER-RAG com-
ponents, Section 5 presents experimental results, and Section 6
concludes with future directions.

2 RELATED WORK
This section reviews cross-source RAG, application-specific source
selection, LLM fine-tuning strategies, and unified heterogeneous
data modeling.

2.1 RAG in Different Kinds of Sources
RAG over Text Sources. HTML and text sources are the major
external data sources for current RAG systems, and there is a signif-
icant body of work in this area. Usually, the content of the HTML
pages is decomposed into chunks [28], each of which contains a
sequential piece of documents. Subsequently, the relevant chunks
can be located using a combined metric with sparse and dense
retrieval. The sparse retrieval mainly captures explicit matching
of the keywords in the query and chunks using TF-IDF [40] or
BM25 [36]. The dense retrieval [8] focuses on the implicit semantic
matching between the query and chunks if both are converted into
embeddings using a pre-trained language model like BERT [13].
The existing retrieval strategies are viewed as the implementations
of the following unified ER-based APIs. For example, we can con-
struct an API with the output attribute named "chunk", and we can
follow the metrics to locate the most relevant chunks.
RAG on Knowledge Graph. Knowledge graphs [15], constructed
on the open corpus or internal resources, can provide high-quality
supplementary context to enhance the performance of LLMs. When
adopted by RAG, the user’s query has to be converted into the
query over the knowledge graph using the template [42] or flexible
semantic parser [48]. Since the generated paths may not align with
those in existing knowledge graphs, Think-on-Graph (TOG) [41]
introduces an LLM to select among candidate paths for the RAG.
Existing methods serve as knowledge graph access implementations
seamlessly integrated into ER-RAG.
RAG on Relational Database. Relational databases, such as stor-
ing an organization’s internal data, can provide high-quality ref-
erences for RAG systems when handling questions in natural lan-
guage. Natural language to SQL (NL2SQL/TEXT2SQL) has recently

ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of Heterogeneous Data Sources

Figure 2: ER-RAG inference pipeline: (1) A source selection module identifies optimal data sources optimizing information
sufficiency and retrieval cost. Both DB_Finance and WEB datasets are required to retrieve the stock price and Nobel Prize
announcement date. (2) An API chain is generated based on selected sources’ schema, first querying temporal data (Nobel Prize
date) to enable stock price lookup. (3) The API chain executes to return JSON-formatted results from heterogeneous sources. (4)
A post-processor converts outputs to natural language f-string templates with executable Python expressions.

become a hot research topic [19, 31], involving prompt design, fine-
tuned LLMs, or pre-trained language models combined with small
task-specific models. Another related task, table retrieval, can be
viewed as a sub-task of NL2SQL, which involves retrieving the rele-
vant single table [24] or multiple tables with join conditions [9] by
computing the similarities between queries and tables. In our con-
text, however, we focus on how to integrate information between
the database and other data sources, rather than extracting from
the database alone. Among these works on relational databases, the
task most closely related to ours is Table-Augmented Generation
(TAG) [3], which features LLM executions in SQL to allow semantic
understanding in using relational databases as a source of RAG.
ER-RAG shows its difference from TAG due to more heterogeneous
data sources, stronger semantic understanding using information
from other sources, and fine-tuned LLMs for the source selection
and generation of the chain of APIs.
RAG on Hybrid Sources. Recently, RAG systems have started
to incorporate hybrid sources for evidence collection, aiming to
enhance the breadth and quality of the information used in response
generation. For example, GraphRAG [23] constructs a knowledge
graph from text sources and applies a clustering algorithm to the
graph. The resulting clusters support answers to global queries.
HybridRAG [37] combines GraphRAG [23] with a basic text-based
RAG system, enhancing performance by utilizing retrieved data
from both sources. Think-on-graph 2.0 [33] enhances the selection
of navigation paths in the knowledge graph guided by both LLM
and collected documents. We can see the need for hybrid sources
in RAG, especially when knowledge graphs are constructed on the
fly from text sources. However, unlike ER-RAG, all existing works

rely on specific methods to support access to relational databases,
knowledge graphs, and text sources separately.

2.2 Source Selection and LLM Routing
Given a query, the source selection has been investigated in dif-
ferent application domains via a task-specific metric considering
the cost, quality, and reliability of the data sources. For example,
a cost-efficiency metric is proposed in data integration [17], and
a trustworthiness score is computed [16] in the web source an-
swering. In the context of RAG, as the user’s query is flexible, the
selection of proper sources requires a deep understanding of the
features of the query and the capability of the data sources, which
can be facilitated by the fine-tuned LLM in our proposed method.
Another related problem is to route queries to the proper LLM
to achieve a trade-off between performance and cost, as there are a
large number of LLMs with different capabilities and expenses [26].
The current routers usually learn routing policies to maximize the
pre-defined objectives based on the understanding of the user’s
query and LLMs. Among them, RoutLLM [34] casts the problem as
a supervised classification problem with a point-wise loss, and LLM-
BLENDER [27] introduces a reward model to evaluate the routing
results with a pair-wise loss. ER-RAG can recommend multiple
sources instead of a single source using a fine-tuned LLM, as the
evidence needed may be located in different sources.

2.3 Fine-Tuning of LLM
It is a critical step to fine-tune pre-trained LLMs in handling spe-
cific tasks, and supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reward modeling
are two major fine-tuning strategies. SFT prepares an annotated
dataset with explicit outputs to optimize the parameters in the LLM

1On the day DeepMind won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, Google's stock price rose by 0.163.Web PageKnowledge GraphDatabaseHow much Google's stock price increased on the day DeepMind won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry?1DPO based Heterogeneous Data Source SelectionHeterogeneousData sources2Heterogeneous Data Chain Generation3Heterogeneous Data Chain Evaluation+ prompt[{"announce_date":"2024-10-08"}]4External Data PostprocessingGET(DBfinance, [table="price_history", "stock_symbol"="GOOG", "date"=2024-10-08], ["open", "close"])[{"open":165.43,"close":165.70,"stock_symbol":"GOOG","date":"2024-10-08","search_key":"2024 Nobel Chemistry Prize"}]f'''Onthe day DeepMind won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, Google's stock price rose by {(Data[0]["close"]-Data[0]["open"])/Data[0]["open"]}.'''GET(Web, ["search_key"~"2024 Nobel Chemistry Prize"], ["announce_date"])…165.70165.432024-10-8…GOOGJOIN("announce_date", "date", equal)Data: result listSource Routing ModuleGeneration ModulePost-processing ModuleTable: Price_historyGET(Web, ["search_key"~"2024 Nobel Chemistry Prize"], ["announce_date"]).JOIN("announce date", "date", equal).GET(DBfinance, [table="price_history", "stock_symbol"="GOOG"], ["open","close"])Web + DBfinanceEntity Module12456LLM3directly. Reward modeling provides fine-granularity preference con-
trol over tuned LLM by SFT, among which RLHF [11] utilizes human
feedback to train a reward model that guides the actions of LLM.
Representative reinforcement learning methods include proximal
policy optimization (PPO) [38], and direct preference optimization
(DPO) [35]. Specifically, DPO attempts to optimize the actions in
each step without requiring explicit reward modeling. ER-RAG
adopts the SFT in building the module in generating the chain of
the API, and takes an SFT-then-DPO approach in fine-tuning the
module in source selection to achieve the preference in combined
metrics with cost and accuracy.

Specifically, fine-tuning can be implemented in Low-Rank Adap-
tation (LoRA) [25] to further enhance parameter efficiency and
adaptability in fine-tuning. LoRA introduces trainable low-rank de-
composition matrices into pre-trained LLMs, significantly reducing
trainable parameters while maintaining task performance. This pa-
per implements all tuned sub-modules via LoRA adapters, enabling
low-cost switching and training.

2.4 Heterogeneous Data Source Modeling
The ER model is a classical generalized conceptual framework used
to describe the key concepts to be managed in a database, includ-
ing entities, attributes, and their relationships [10]. The ER model
can be viewed as the foundation of the design of physical models,
including knowledge graphs, JSON, and relational databases. By
fully considering the restricted access pattern in RAG, we leverage
the idea of the ER model to define unified access APIs over all data
sources to obtain the necessary evidence (entities and relationships).
There are also works to represent different data sources using
one unified model. As the relational database schema is derived
from ER modeling, relational tables can be reconstructed into a
graph with foreign keys as the edges between table nodes. Previous
works learn embeddings at the schema or instance level using
graph neural networks to support various downstream tasks, such
as recommendation [2], entity resolution, and table understanding
[6, 47]. As RAG access patterns are restricted, ER-RAG’s unified
APIs serve as basic graph query operations, with their composition
forming a chain rather than a flexible graph pattern.

3 UNIFIED ER API CHAIN
In this section, we first define our unified ER API for knowledge
retrieval from heterogeneous data sources. We then describe the
concrete physical implementation of the defined logical API. Finally,
we outline the greedy execution algorithm of the API chain.

3.1 Unified API’s Logical Definition
Motivated by the ER model and entity-entry MockAPI in CRAG
dataset [45], we design a unified ER extraction API to extract knowl-
edge from different sources. First, we define two basic operations
of the API, the 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation and the 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation.
GET Operation. The 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation corresponds to the process of
retrieving specific entities and attributes from a data source, defined
by a set of filtering criteria. In the context of the ER model, the 𝐺𝐸𝑇
operation can be viewed as a selection process over an entity set
{𝐸}, where the selection condition is based on attribute values.

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1

Formally, let 𝑆 represent a data source, and let 𝐴1, 𝐴2, . . . , 𝐴𝑛
denote the attributes of {𝐸}. A 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation can be expressed as:

𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝑆, Condition, {𝐴𝑖 })

where 𝑆 is the target data source, Condition is a logical expression
involving one or more attributes of {𝐸}, and {𝐴𝑖 } is the set of at-
tributes to be retrieved. The result of a 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation is a projection
of specific attributes of condition meeting entities {𝐸′} ⊆ {𝐸}.
JOIN Operation. The 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation is used to combine data
from two entity sets based on two related attributes. In the ER
model, this operation reflects the establishment of relationships
between entities. A 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation integrates information by link-
ing entities through shared attributes. 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation takes two
𝐺𝐸𝑇 outputs (entity subsets with associated attributes) as input.
Formally, let 𝑆1 and 𝑆2 represent two data sources, and let {𝐴1
𝑖 }
and {𝐴2
𝑖 } be attributes in 𝑆1 and 𝑆2, respectively. The output of two
𝐺𝐸𝑇 s is {𝐸1} and {𝐸2}. The 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation can be expressed as:

𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝑆1, ..., {𝐴1

𝑖 }).𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 (Condition).𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝑆2, ..., {𝐴2

𝑖 }).

12} satisfy the specified 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 condition.

where Condition = (𝑒1.𝑎1 op 𝑒2.𝑎2) defines the relationship between
the entities, and 𝑒1 ∈ {𝐸1}, 𝑒2 ∈ {𝐸2}. The used attributes have to
𝑖 }, 𝑎2 ∈ {𝐴2
be concluded in the extracted attributes, 𝑎1 ∈ {𝐴1
𝑖 }.
The output of the 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation is a subset {𝐸′
12} ⊆ {𝐸1} × {𝐸2}
(Cartesian product of the two sets {𝐸1} and {𝐸2}), where the pairs
in {𝐸′
Chain of GET and JOIN. Ideally, the 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation can be placed
between 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operations and form a graph of 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operations, al-
lowing complex relationships between data sources to be expressed
and extracted. Considering that QA queries often do not involve
such complex logic represented in graphs, we consider a chain of al-
ternating 𝐺𝐸𝑇 and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operations to simplify the generation and
representation of these processes. This chain represents a sequence
of data retrieval and integration steps, where each 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation
extracts specific entities and attributes, and each 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation
combines these entities based on defined conditions. Formally, a
chain of 𝐺𝐸𝑇 and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operations can be expressed as:
𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝑆1, Condition1, {𝐴1
.JOIN(Condition4).𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝑆3, Condition5, {𝐴3

𝑖 }).JOIN(Condition2).𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝑆2, Condition3, {𝐴2
𝑖 }) . . .

𝑖 })

Such a chain alternates between 𝐺𝐸𝑇 and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operations,

building unified multi-source data views.

3.2 Unified API’s Physical Implementation
This subsection details the API system’s physical implementation
and enumerates representative instances. Notably, the API execu-
tion has no limitations on data sources, so other sources can also
be included as long as our defined APIs are implemented.
Instances of GET APIs. We list the implementations of 𝐺𝐸𝑇 APIs
for several common data sources here, including the DB, WIKI, and
Other (WEB, Document) sources.

DB GET API. In the context of relational databases, the 𝐺𝐸𝑇
operation can be directly translated into an SQL query. The 𝐺𝐸𝑇 op-
eration in a DB is formally expressed as: 𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝐷𝐵𝑠, Condition, {𝐴𝑖 }),
where 𝐷𝐵𝑠 is the data source (typically a database containing mul-
tiple related tables), Condition represents a logical expression in-
volving one or more attributes in the database table schema, and

ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of Heterogeneous Data Sources

{𝐴𝑖 } is the set of attributes to be retrieved. Specifically, in the Con-
dition statements, a certain table has to be specified for successful
retrieval (table = table_name). We represent the rest of the condi-
tions as Condition′. In SQL, this operation can be represented as:

SELECT {𝐴𝑖 } FROM table_name WHERE Condition′; .
Here, {𝐴𝑖 } are the attributes of interest, and the WHERE Condition′
specifies the filtering criteria for selecting the rows from the table 𝑆.
The Condition’ in the 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation often corresponds to SQL-like
conditions, which can involve equality comparisons (e.g., 𝐴𝑖 = 𝑣),
range queries (e.g., 𝐴𝑖 > 𝑣), pattern matching (e.g., LIKE,~), or logical
combinations of these (e.g., 𝐴𝑖 = 𝑣1 AND 𝐵𝑖 < 𝑣2). Specifically
for the pattern matching case, fuzzy search is conducted by first
attempting an exact match, followed by a case-insensitive partial
match using ILIKE (PostgreSQL) for prefix or suffix completion.
For queries on specific fields with a limited set of attribute values
and the above search result is empty, embedding-based retrieval is
utilized to identify the most relevant attribute.

Knowledge Graph GET API. In the context of Knowledge
Graphs (KG), the 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation is used to retrieve specific at-
tributes or facts about entities. We demonstrate the KG 𝐺𝐸𝑇 inter-
face using Wikipedia: 𝐺𝐸𝑇 (𝑊 𝐼𝐾𝐼, Condition, {𝐴𝑖 }).

In the condition part, we use the same condition statements as
the DB 𝐺𝐸𝑇 API instance. A specific search_key in the statement
should be provided to identify the entity we needed. For example, if
the Condition contains search_key= DeepMind, we use Wikipedia
search tools to get the page of DeepMind for later processing. To
deal with the ambiguity problem [39], we prompt an 8B LLM to se-
lect the most related entity given the query and disambiguation list.
Furthermore, we distill a entity module (for entity disambiguation
and later attribute extraction) using GPT-4o outputs to enhance
its cross-modal reasoning capabilities. Other condition statements
listed in the DB GET API can also be incorporated. We additionally
leverage it to verify whether the retrieved Wikipedia entity satisfies
the specified conditions.

In the attribute part, if {𝐴𝑖 } (e.g., "parent company" of a com-
pany) exists directly in the structured infobox or table of the entity’s
page (e.g., the Wikipedia page of DeepMind), it can be extracted
directly using the structured data parser. However, if the attribute
is not explicitly available in the structured data, or the attribute
name can’t be exactly matched but exists in the unstructured text of
the page, LLM can be employed to extract the desired attribute. We
prompt the LLM to process the text and identify the relevant infor-
mation. Specifically, we also fine-tune the entity module with the
output of GPT-4o to enhance its capability. By extracting structured
data when available and unstructured data using LLM, this hybrid
approach enables efficient and comprehensive retrieval of attributes
in KGs, ensuring both precision and flexibility in handling diverse
query types.

Other GET API. Other GET APIs follow the same format as the
other two instances. Other sources, mainly web pages extracted
from search engine results or documents, follow the same text
processing pipeline [44]. To process information from web pages,
the HTML content is first parsed into structured documents. We
use the BeautifulSoup library to extract the main body text while
filtering out irrelevant elements. After extraction, or when dealing
with plain text, we use TextSplitter from LangChain to divide the

text into manageable chunks [28], adhering to the predefined parent-
child chunking strategy. These chunks are then fed into the retriever
and reranker pipeline. The retriever identifies the most relevant
child chunks based on their semantic similarity to the query, while
the pairwise reranker model further refines the selection, boosting
the retrieval performance. We use the retrieved chunk results as a
default "chunk" attribute, and we also support the LLM attribute
extraction module mentioned in the KG GET API part to extract
attributes from these retrieved chunks. Notably, we implement a
widely-used simple RAG pipeline for the web and text scenario,
and other advanced RAG techniques, e.g., query rewriting [20], or
HTML parsing techniques, e.g., extracting the table contents, can
be applied to further boost the performance, which is perpendicular
to our research direction.
Instances of JOIN API. A naive instance of the 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operation
can be described as follows: Suppose that we have two data sources
𝑆1 and 𝑆2, with attributes {𝐴1
𝑖 } and {𝐴2
𝑖 }, respectively. The output
of the first 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation is 𝐸1, a set of entities with attributes. Let
the 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 Condition be defined as 𝑒1.𝑎1 op 𝑒2.𝑎2, where 𝑎1 ∈ {𝐴1
𝑖 }
and 𝑎2 ∈ {𝐴2
𝑖 }. For each entity 𝑒1 ∈ 𝐸1, the 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 condition gener-
ates a filter for the second 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation, where the condition is
concatenated with logical OR for all 𝑒1 ∈ 𝐸1. Formally, the resulting
𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 condition can be expressed as:

Condition =

(cid:220)

𝑒1 ∈𝐸1

(𝑒2.𝑎2 op 𝑒1.𝑎1) ,

where (cid:212) denotes the logical OR operator. This means that for each
entity 𝑒1 in the output of the first 𝐺𝐸𝑇 , a corresponding condition
𝑒2.𝑎2 op 𝑒1.𝑎1 is inserted into the second 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation. The 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁
operation integrates the outputs 𝐸1 and 𝐸2 by filtering the Cartesian
product 𝐸1 × 𝐸2 based on the defined condition.

Notably, for simple operands, e.g., =,>,<, we can simply generate
the conditions of the second 𝐺𝐸𝑇 . However, for semantic operands,
like the parent company operand between DeepMind and Google,
semantic understanding is required to parse such operands. There-
fore, to handle the parsing of the semantic operands, we integrate
the entity module (originally designed for the KG GET API) in our
𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 interface for KG and text. For example, for a 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 inter-
face 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 (𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡, 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑦, 𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ_𝑘𝑒𝑦), that queries
the parent company of DeepMind. We take the content attribute of
the first 𝐺𝐸𝑇 of DeepMind’s wiki page, which is a default attribute
of all WIKI-related 𝐺𝐸𝑇 s, and prompt the entity module to extract
a parent company entity from the content. The answer is filled into
a condition related to the second 𝐺𝐸𝑇 ’s 𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ_𝑘𝑒𝑦, fetching the
Google entity for further processing.

3.3 Execution of Chain of APIs
The execution order of APIs has a significant impact on execution
time, and optimizing the sequence can greatly improve efficiency.
To determine the execution order of each 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation, we need
to have access to the cardinality of each 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation. Cardinality
refers to the number of records or entities that satisfy the condi-
tions of a specific 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation. By estimating cardinality, we can
optimize the execution order of multiple 𝐺𝐸𝑇 and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 operations,
like SQL execution in database [30], as operations with lower car-
dinality can be prioritized to reduce intermediate result sizes and
improve overall efficiency. For database (DB) APIs, cardinality can

Algorithm 1: Efficient Execution of Chain of APIs.

Input: API Chain 𝐶ℎ𝑎𝑖𝑛 = (𝑉 , 𝐸), where 𝑉 is the set of
𝐺𝐸𝑇 nodes and 𝐸 is the set of 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 edges.

Output: Execution Result.
1 Initialize priority queue 𝑄;
2 foreach 𝑣 ∈ 𝑉 do
3

𝑐 ← Estimate(𝑣);
Insert 𝑣 into 𝑄 with cardinality 𝑐, initializing
𝑣 [join] ← ∅;

4

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

5 while len(𝑄) > 1 do
6

Extract 𝑣min with smallest cardinality from 𝑄;
Create merged node 𝑣new combining 𝑣min and
𝑣min [join] (if exists);
Remove 𝑣min and 𝑣min [join] from 𝑄 if present;
Insert 𝑣new into 𝑄;
foreach edge 𝑒 from 𝑣new to neighbor 𝑣n do

Compute joined cardinality
𝑐new ← EstimateJoin(𝑣new, 𝑣n, 𝑒);
if 𝑐new < current cardinality of 𝑣n then
Update 𝑣n’s cardinality in 𝑄;
Record 𝑣n’s new 𝑣n [join] ← 𝑣new;

15 return The remaining node in 𝑄;

be estimated using metadata (e.g., min, max, and distinct_count)
and the converted SQL query. Our system uses a simple estimation
approach based on this metadata. For KG APIs and other APIs, if
a search_key is provided, the cardinality is estimated as 1, assum-
ing the key uniquely identifies a single entity. If no search_key is
provided, the cardinality is estimated as ∞, reflecting that we can’t
identify the entity based on the current interface.

Regardless of how the individual 𝐺𝐸𝑇 and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 are imple-
mented, we propose a unified interface execution algorithm. The
parsing algorithm can deal with 𝐺𝐸𝑇 s connected into chains, as
well as the more general graph structure. Intuitively, we greedily se-
lect the 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operator estimated to have the smallest cardinality to
execute the whole interface more efficiently. The overall algorithm
is presented in Algorithm 1.

Initially, our algorithm initializes a priority queue and inserts all
𝐺𝐸𝑇 nodes into the queue, prioritizing them based on their base
cardinality. During each iteration, the 𝐺𝐸𝑇 node 𝑣𝑚𝑖𝑛 with the
smallest cardinality is extracted, and its 𝐺𝐸𝑇 operation is executed
on its own or with its recorded joining neighbor 𝑣 𝑗𝑜𝑖𝑛, and the
newly executed or combined node is added to the queue. We then
identify join edges connected to the newly executed or combined
node and perform join operations with its neighboring 𝐺𝐸𝑇 nodes.
After each join operation, the conditions and priorities of the neigh-
bor nodes are updated. Specifically, we re-estimate the cardinality
of joining the neighbor node and the combined node. If the com-
bined cardinality is smaller than the value in the queue, we update
the cardinality, and record which joined node 𝑣 𝑗𝑜𝑖𝑛 the smaller
cardinality is achieved. This process continues until only one result
remains in the queue. By prioritizing nodes with smaller cardinality,
the algorithm uses a greedy strategy to optimize execution.

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1

4 ER-RAG PIPELINE
In this section, we present the ER-RAG pipeline, a two-stage API
generation module followed by a post-processing module. In the
API generation module, the first stage focuses on source selection,
where an agent fine-tuned using the DPO framework [35] evaluates
and selects the most relevant sources based on task requirements.
This stage aims to pass the data sources with sufficient information
to answer the query and the least retrieval time to the second
stage. In the second stage, a generation agent constructs the API
chains by leveraging the schema of the selected sources as prompts,
enabling precise and context-aware API generation. Following API
retrieval, a post-processing module is employed to apply additional
operations to the collected data, enhancing the expressive power
and flexibility of the RAG system.

4.1 API Generation Objective.
Given multi-source data S and an execution system P, we aim to
construct an optimal API chain to achieve the dual objectives of
maximizing answer accuracy and minimum retrieval latency.
The multi-source data S can include several separate heterogeneous
data sources, e.g., DB, WIKI, WEB, etc, each containing different
data and having different retrieval costs.

4.2 API Generation for Provided Sources.
Since training the source selection module requires generating
and evaluating APIs on fixed sources, we will first present API
generation for given sources. Given a data source and a query, we
propose combining prompt engineering and tuning to generate the
API. The prompt is as follows:

1 You are an agent for building a retrieval system.
2 ### Instruction:
3 You need to generate an API with {Datasource_name}.
4 ### API Definition: {API_definition}
5 ### Datasource Schema: {Datasource_schema}
6 ### Query:
7 Please refer to the instructions and generate an API for the

↩→ following query directly:

8 Query: {Query}
9 Interface:

The prompt is unified for all sources in the {API_definition} part,
which describes the API format. The {Datasource_name} is the
name of the provided source, including single sources, e.g., SELF,
DB_Finance, WIKI, WEB, etc, and mixed sources, e.g., WIKI + DB_Fi-
nance, etc. For different data sources, the {Datasource_schema} part
is different. For example, for the database part, we have to fill in
the {Datasource_schema} part with the related database schema,
otherwise, it would be impossible for the LLM to generate the
correct table name or row name. For data sources such as the WEB
or Wikipedia, since the LLM already has knowledge of these sources,
we only need to provide it with the names of the data sources. For
mixed sources, the {Datasource_schema} part should include all
relevant component schemas.

Given fixed data sources, we prompt GPT-4o to generate the
reference APIs from the training set and then correct them manually
as the ground-truth data. We then fine-tune a small LLM (8B) using
the annotated interfaces to perform the interface generation task.

ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of Heterogeneous Data Sources

Figure 3: Fine-Tuning Source Selection Module Illustration.

4.3 Source Selection
Selecting different data sources is essential for ensuring accurate
and efficient responses. Firstly, similar to the schema linking mod-
ule in NL2SQL, we need to choose the right source in homogeneous
sources. For example, if we have two DB sources, DB_Music and
DB_Movie, and we are provided with a question related to music,
we need to direct the source correctly to music, otherwise, the other
data source contains no useful information. Moreover, heteroge-
neous sources have their strengths and weaknesses. If a wrong
source is selected or all sources are simply stacked together with-
out consideration, it can lead to incorrect or suboptimal answers.
Proper selection ensures that the most suitable source combination
is chosen for a given task, leveraging its strengths while avoiding
unnecessary conflicts.

Secondly, different sources or models have varying execution
times. For example, only considering the time cost, using a search
engine to search and fetch the top 10 related web pages may cost
2 seconds, and searching from a database may cost milliseconds
to hundreds of seconds or more depending on the database scale
and query difficulty, and searching from Wikipedia and parsing the
entity and edges using LLMs may cost a few seconds to hundreds of
seconds depending on how deeply the LLM is involved. To provide
timely responses, it’s crucial to assign queries to the source with
the shortest execution time that can still deliver accurate results.
In this subsection, we present our source selection training
pipeline, consisting of a supervised fine-tuning (SFT) training part
that teaches the LLM which sources can accurately capture the
related information, and a direct policy optimization (DPO) prefer-
ence training part that guides the LLM to choose the source with
the lowest cost. Our experiments show that directly using SFT to
select the single correct and fastest source leads to significant issues.
Specifically, SFT struggles to balance multiple objectives effectively,
causing the model to confuse whether a source is valid or simply
low-cost. This confusion results in an over-selection of the SELF
source (the source not using RAG with 0 retrieval cost), which ulti-
mately harms performance. To address this, we chose to use DPO
for further fine-tuning of the LLM. DPO avoids the pitfalls of SFT
by better accommodating multiple objectives.
SFT Training. In order to help the LLM learn which source is
reliable, we introduce SFT training before DPO. This stage helps

the model output in categorical format and spot the reliable data
source. The prompt we use is as follows:

1 You are an agent for selecting the appropriate data source to

↩→ answer user queries.

2 ### Instruction:
3 Based on the provided query and available data sources ({

↩→ Datasource_list}), you must determine the best option for
↩→ obtaining the information needed.

4 ### Source Schema Overview:{Source_description}
5 ### Query:
6 Please refer to the instructions and output a most likely data

↩→ source for the following query directly.

7 Query: {Query}
8 Source:

where {Datasource_list} is a list of sources, e.g., DB_movie, DB_music,
WIKI, WEB, SELF, MIX, etc. SELF means that no information re-
trieval is needed. MIX means allowing the API to query multiple
sources. Each mix source is assigned to a special token in source
selection tuning. {Source_description} contains a brief schema and
source description of each source. For example, for a specific DB
source, the description contains lists of table names and usages.

Here, given a query 𝑞, we denote the probability of LLM M
choosing source 𝑆 as 𝑃M (𝑆 |𝑞). We construct the training set as
follows: For each query 𝑞 in the training set T , we generate an
API using source 𝑞. Then, we execute the API and infer using
the LLM with the retrieved context. Finally, we construct a set
D𝑠 𝑓 𝑡 = {(𝑞, 𝑆𝑖 )}, where query 𝑞 is answered correctly with the
help of source 𝑆𝑖 . Here, each 𝑞 can form pairs with multiple correct
sources. We optimize the following SFT loss on D𝑠 𝑓 𝑡 :

LSFT = −E(𝑞,𝑆𝑖 )∼D𝑠 𝑓 𝑡

(cid:2)𝑃M (𝑆𝑖 |𝑞)(cid:3) .

Training on this loss helps the LLM learn which external sources
are helpful in the RAG or whether the internal knowledge inside
the LLM is sufficient to answer the query.
DPO Training. We leverage DPO training to directly optimize
the source selection agent according to the preference data. We
adopt a strategy to rank the sources based on execution time. Such
a strategy aims to train the model to choose the source with a
lower running time, which can boost the efficiency of the retrieval
process.

Motivated by the online preference data construction [29], we
generate the preference training set D𝑑𝑝𝑜 as follows: After the SFT
training step, we obtain a base reference model M𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 . For each
query 𝑞 in the training set T , we use M𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 to infer the source 𝑆1
and 𝑆2 with the top-2 probabilities. For the execution time strategy,
based on the source retrieval time, if source 𝑆1 is correct and has
the lowest retrieval time, we add the winning source 𝑆𝑤 = 𝑆1
and lossing source 𝑆𝑙 = 𝑆2 into the preference training set D𝑑𝑝𝑜 .
Otherwise, we identify the correct source with the lowest retrieval
time 𝑆𝑚𝑖𝑛, and we add 𝑆𝑤 = 𝑆𝑚𝑖𝑛 > 𝑆𝑙 = 𝑆1 into D𝑑𝑝𝑜 . This
strategy allows us to update the current reference model marginally,
helping the model to capture the retrieval time pattern to the largest
extent. We use the following DPO loss [35] to get the final module
M𝜃 :

LDPO (M𝜃 ; M𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 ) = −E(𝑞,𝑆𝑤,𝑆𝑙 )∼Ddpo
𝑃M𝜃 (𝑆𝑤 | 𝑞)
(cid:20)
𝑃M𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 (𝑆𝑤 | 𝑞)

− 𝛽 log

𝛽 log

log 𝜎

(cid:18)

𝑃M𝜃 (𝑆𝑙 | 𝑞)
𝑃M𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 (𝑆𝑙 | 𝑞)

(cid:19)(cid:21)

,

Probability1SFT Training{"𝑸𝒖𝒆𝒓𝒚𝒊": "the price of hofv stock at the end of the last day?","𝑳𝒂𝒃𝒆𝒍𝒔𝒊": ["𝑊𝑒𝑏", "𝐷𝐵(cid:3033)(cid:3036)(cid:3041)(cid:3028)(cid:3041)(cid:3030)(cid:3032)"]}𝐷(cid:3046)(cid:3033)(cid:3047)={(𝑞,𝑆(cid:3036))}PromptQuery:{𝑸𝒖𝒆𝒓𝒚𝒊}Source:𝑊𝑒𝑏.PromptQuery:{𝑸𝒖𝒆𝒓𝒚𝒊}Source: 𝐷𝐵(cid:3033)(cid:3036)(cid:3041)(cid:3028)(cid:3041)(cid:3030)(cid:3032).2DPO TrainingSFT corpus{𝑸𝒖𝒆𝒓𝒚𝒊,𝑳𝒂𝒃𝒆𝒍𝒔𝒊}DPO corpus…PromptQuery:{𝑸𝒖𝒆𝒓𝒚𝒊}Source:𝐷𝐵(cid:3033)(cid:3036)(cid:3041)(cid:3028)(cid:3041)(cid:3030)(cid:3032)𝑊𝑒𝑏1.𝑺𝒘∈𝐿𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙𝑠(cid:3036)and 𝑺𝒍∉𝐿𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙𝑠(cid:3036)2.𝑺𝒘has lower latency𝐷(cid:3031)(cid:3043)(cid:3042)={(𝑞,𝑆(cid:3050),𝑆(cid:3039))}ℳ(cid:3029)(cid:3028)(cid:3046)(cid:3032)ℳ(cid:2968)ℳ(cid:3029)(cid:3028)(cid:3046)(cid:3032)ℳ(cid:3029)(cid:3028)(cid:3046)(cid:3032)where the current model M𝜃 is initialized by the base model M𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 ,
𝛽 is a parameter controlling the deviation from the base reference
model, and 𝜎 is the sigmoid function.

4.4 Post-Processing
Our unified API efficiently extracts relevant information from mul-
tiple data sources, but certain queries—such as those involving
superlatives, ordinal rankings, or numerical computations (e.g.,
"What’s the latest film directed by Walt Becker?")—require post-
processing to deliver accurate results. While basic operations like
𝐺𝐸𝑇 and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 handle data retrieval and integration, they lack
the ability to perform advanced tasks like sorting, grouping, or
numerical computations, which are essential for operations akin to
ORDER BY or GROUP BY in databases. Post-processing addresses
these limitations by enabling transformations, comparisons, and
aggregations on the result set after initial API data retrieval.

Additionally, post-processing can leverage LLMs to help data
normalization, relevance verification, and string modification. For
data normalization, post-processing standardizes formats to enable
seamless comparison and sorting. For example, it unifies time for-
mats (e.g., converting "2023-10-01" and "October 1, 2023" into a
single standard) and unit measurements (e.g., converting "5 km" to
"5000 meters"). For relevance verification, post-processing lever-
ages LLMs to assess the alignment between retrieved content and
the user’s query. By analyzing semantic cues, contextual informa-
tion, and user intent, it filters out irrelevant data and ensures that
only pertinent information is considered for further processing. For
string manipulation, post-processing refines raw outputs by trans-
forming attribute-value pairs into clear, natural language formats.
These capabilities ensure that our system delivers accurate, inter-
pretable, and user-friendly results across a wide range of queries.
To enable flexible and efficient post-processing, we propose gen-
erating lightweight Python f-string scripts. An f-string is a concise
and powerful way to embed expressions directly into string lit-
erals. The f-string takes the list of dictionary outputs of the API
retrieval result and uses the braced expressions to process the result.
Unlike traditional string formatting methods, f-strings allow for
dynamic evaluation of embedded code and they can handle het-
erogeneous formats like units or time representations well. For
example, for a query like "What are the top 3 highest revenues
among these companies?", the retrieved data may include values
with mixed units (e.g., [{company:"Company A",revenue:"120M"},
{company:"Company B",revenue:"8500K"},...]). A one-line f-string
script normalizes these values into a consistent unit (e.g., millions)
and computes the result:

1 f'''The top 3 companies by revenue are {", ".join([x["company"]
↩→ for x in sorted(Data, key=lambda x: float(x["revenue"].
↩→ replace("M", "")) if "M" in x["revenue"] else float(x["
↩→ revenue"].replace("K", ""))/1000, reverse=True)[:3]])}.'''

This approach sorts the data and extracts the top three entries
directly, ensuring precise results and avoiding LLM hallucination.
We prompt and tune the LLM to generate the concise Python

script for post-processing. The generation prompt is as follows:

1 You are an agent for processing structured data.
2 ### Instructions:
3 Extract useful information from the retrieved data that

↩→ directly addresses the user's query.

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1

4 If the task involves computation or dynamic formatting, use

↩→ Python's "f-string" to embed expressions or calculations.

5 ### API Definition: {API_definition}
6 ### Output Requirements:
7 Complete the Return part in the following Python function

↩→ template:
8 def solve(Data):
9

from datetime import datetime
return {{Return}}

10
11 Replace {{Return}} with your generated f-string or "no data" if

↩→ no relevant data is found.

12 ### Query:
13 Question: {query}
14 API: {api}
15 Data (Limited by maximum length): {data}
16 Return: f'''

Here, {API_definition} is a brief description of the API rules helping
the LLM to understand the API format. Using this prompt, we
generate the Python scripts for the samples in the training set using
GPT-4o, and we tune an agent for the post-processing task.

5 EXPERIMENT
In this section, we conduct extensive experiments to evaluate ER-
RAG. Our objective is to address the following research inquiries
through our experiments:

I1: How effectively does our interface handle individual sources,
and how does it integrate information across diverse sources?
I2: How does our API enhance multi-source multi-hop queries

and support agent construction on new data sources?
I3: How does ER-RAG generalize out of the training set?
I4: How does source selection affect the performance and effi-

ciency of RAG on multiple sources?

To address I1, we compare ER-RAG with single-source and
hybrid-source RAG baselines on the CRAG dataset in Sec. 5.2. For
I2, we evaluate ER-RAG’s performance on multi-source multi-hop
queries using the synthetic MIX dataset in Sec. 5.3, and analyze the
impact of joint API generation training to demonstrate the benefits
of unified agent construction across sources. Regarding I3, we as-
sess ER-RAG’s generalization capability by testing its performance
on the Compmix dataset (trained on the CRAG training set) in Sec.
5.4. Finally, for I4, we present the performance and time cost of
various source selection methods in Sec. 5.5.

5.1 Experimental Setup
Datasets. To study our RAG system on heterogeneous data, we con-
duct experiments on CRAG, CompMix, and synthetic MIX datasets.
The CRAG dataset [46] is a comprehensive benchmark for multi-
source RAG systems, consisting of QA pairs spanning multiple
domains and diverse question types. CRAG simulates real-world
retrieval scenarios by providing retrieval content from web searches
and knowledge graphs (KG), including up to 50 HTML web pages
and a KG equipped with Mock API with 2.6 million entities. In
the original dataset, the Mock API allows querying entities in a
black-box manner, which is only accessible by entity names. We
implement three API sources for CRAG: DB, WIKI, and WEB. For
the DB source, we re-organize and unify the Mock API data into a
PostgreSQL database, turning it into a "white-box" source for easier
comparison. The WIKI source relies on an online wiki parsing
system we implement, while the WEB source uses the original 50

ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of Heterogeneous Data Sources

Table 1: Statistics of the Datasets.

Train

#Samples

Avg. Tokens

CRAG-API-Train
CRAG-Post-Train
CRAG-Entity-Train
Synthetic-API-Train

3,901
2,082
4,921
726

1,116
636
1,851
2,519

Test
CRAG-Test
CompMix
Synthetic-Test

Database
Movie Database
Music Database
Sports Database
Finance Database
Open Database

Other Sources
Cached WEB Page
Cached WIKI Page

#Questions
1,212
1,531
916

Avg. Tokens
15.6
11.4
43.9

#Tables
7
5
2
6
1

#Items
68,079
4,740

Avg. Columns/Rows
7/243,313
7/1,116,301
44/33,915
28/1,142,958
5/3,355

Avg. Tokens
9,021
6,436

web pages. Since the test set of CRAG is not open-sourced, we use
split=0 from its pre-divided splits in the open-source dataset as the
test set and split=1 as the training set.

CompMix [12] evaluates QA methods over heterogeneous sources
like WIKIDATA, Wikipedia text, tables, and infoboxes. We also im-
plement the same three API sources for CompMix. For the DB
source, we use the music, movie, and soccer CRAG DB. We use the
same WIKI parsing system and implement a web-fetching system
for WEB sources using Google Search APIs, retrieving 5 pages per
query. Testing on CompMix demonstrates our system’s robustness
and generalization to new questions and sources, with modules
tuned only on CRAG.

To demonstrate our method’s performance on multi-source re-
trieval, we construct a synthetic multi-source query set. For mixed
sources, to create a training set of source 𝑆1 and 𝑆2, we follow
these steps: 1. Select queries from the CRAG dataset answerable
using 𝑆1 as step-one questions, filtering for entity answers so the
first query’s answer can serve as part of the join condition for the
second query. 2. Prompt LLM to generate similar queries for 𝑆2
using correctly answered examples from 𝑆2. Execute the same re-
trieval pipeline to extract context from 𝑆2 and prompt LLM to check
context relevance and generate a second-step query. 3. For related
second-step queries, prompt LLM to generate a combined two-step
query with the first-step query, excluding the join condition entity.
We prompt LLM to generate a unified API to form the mixed-source
training set. We construct the synthetic dataset on WIKI and DB
mixed sources. We split the synthetic dataset into training and test
sets based on the source of the step-one question, ensuring that
questions from the CRAG training set are in the training set and
those from the CRAG test set are in the test set.

We present the statistics of these three datasets in Table 1. Specif-
ically, in the training set, CRAG-API-train refers to a training set
of samples generated by a single source API, while Synthetic-API-
Train is a mixed multi-source training sample. CRAG-Post-Train
refers to the training set for the post-processing Python script, and

CRAG-Entity-Train refers to the training set for the module re-
sponsible for entity disambiguation and relation extraction in our
WIKI/WEB source code implementation.
Metrics. To evaluate QA accuracy, two common metrics can be
used: Stem-based Accuracy [1] (Accuracy in Table 2) and LLM-
based Scores [7, 46]. Stem-based accuracy focuses on stemmed
tokens. If all stemmed tokens from the ground truth are present in
the predicted output, the answer is labeled correct. Otherwise, the
answer is considered wrong.

For LLM-based Score, an LLM is used to determine whether the
predicted answer is semantically correct compared to the ground
truth. The model outputs a True (if the answer is correct) or False (if
the answer is incorrect), providing a binary evaluation for accuracy.
We use the prompt from the CRAG contest [46] to evaluate answer
correctness using DeepSeek V3.

To evaluate the performance of the source selection system, we
use accuracy and time cost for the information retrieval system to
evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the RAG system. We use
the LLM score as the accuracy metric, and we use the end-2-end
information retrieval time as the time cost metric.
Baselines. For the retrieval performance, we compare the baseline
methods from three different aspects. First, we test the basic capa-
bilities of LLM without RAG on these questions to illustrate the
effect of RAG on this task.

Second, we compare the performance of our whole system with
industry systems on the same queries. We select ChatGPT Plus,
Claude-3.5-sonnet Pro, Perplexity ai-Llama3.1 (405B), and three
commercial RAG systems based on strong LLMs, as our baselines.
The industry system can have access to various information sources
and may be constructed on more powerful agents or models.

Third, we compare our method with other baselines on sin-
gle data sources. For instance, on the DB source, we select DAIL
(VLDB’24) [19], SuperSQL (VLDB’24) [31] as the NL2SQL baseline,
two LLM-based NL2SQL methods, which are another major ap-
proach to generate SQL queries to extract information from data
sources. We implement them using GPT-4o as the SQL generation
agent.

Finally, we evaluate our integration strategy on hybrid data
sources by comparing ER-RAG (MIX) for mixed data, ER-RAG
(Source Selection) with a source selection pipeline, and ER-RAG (All
in Context) using all retrieved information. We also demonstrate
the ideal performance of ER-RAG (Oracle), which assumes perfect
source selection at minimal cost.
Implementation Details. We use Llama3 8B as our base model in
all tests and also implement all the modules using it. The calls to
the remaining LLMs are implemented through the OpenAI library
of a third-party agent, with the temperature set to 0. We use the
TRL library and PEFT library [43] to conduct LoRA fine-tuning on
the LLMs. Specifically, we train four independent modules (API
Generation, WIKI/WEB Entity Processing, Post-processing, and
Source Selection), each corresponding to a separate LoRA adapter.
During inference, these adapters can be dynamically switched based
on the task requirements. The LoRA configs are 𝑙𝑜𝑟𝑎_𝑎𝑙𝑝ℎ𝑎 =
16, 𝑙𝑜𝑟𝑎_𝑑𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑢𝑡 = 0.1, and 𝑙𝑜𝑟𝑎_𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘 = 8.

For supervised fine-tuning, we train our model using the AdamW
optimizer [32]. The number of training epochs is set to 2 (5 for API
generation), the learning rate is set to 2𝑒 −4, and the batch size is set

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1

Table 2: RAG Performance on the CRAG Dataset (Colored numbers indicate the best results among a certain type of methods).

Types

Methods

LLM
only

Llama3 8B
GPT-4o-mini
GPT-4o
DeepSeek v3

Industry
systems

ChatGPT Plus (GPT-4o)
Claude-3-5-sonnet Pro
Perplexity (405B)

Single
data source
(Llama3 8B)

Hybrid
data sources
(Llama3 8B)

ZeroShot SQL (DB,GPT-4o)
DAIL SQL (DB,GPT-4o)
SuperSQL (DB,GPT-4o)
ER-RAG (DB)
ER-RAG (WEB Chunk)
ER-RAG (WEB ER)
ER-RAG (WIKI ER)

ER-RAG (MIX)
ER-RAG (All in Context)
ER-RAG (Source Selection)
ER-RAG (Oracle)

Movie

Music

Finance

Sports

Open

All

Movie

Music

Finance

Sports

Open

All

LLM scores

Accuracy

35.1 (↓33.0)
45.5 (↓22.6)
57.7 (↓10.4)
53.4 (↓14.7)

57.7 (↓10.4)
53.0 (↓15.1)
68.5 (↑0.4)

54.8 (↓13.3)
62.0 (↓6.1)
63.4 (↓4.7)
61.7 (↓6.4)
53.0 (↓15.1)
51.3 (↓16.8)
49.5 (↓18.6)

61.7 (↓6.4)
65.9 (↓2.2)
68.1
81.7

38.5 (↓20.7)
52.3 (↓6.9)
53.4 (↓5.8)
55.2 (↓4.0)

56.3 (↓2.9)
59.2 (↓0.0)
62.1 (↑2.9)

36.8 (↓22.4)
43.1 (↓16.1)
42.5 (↓16.7)
47.1 (↓12.1)
50.6 (↓8.6)
53.4 (↓5.8)
50.6 (↓8.6)

48.3 (↓10.9)
54.6 (↓4.6)
59.2
76.6

14.5 (↓32.2)
14.2 (↓32.5)
13.2 (↓33.5)
18.6 (↓28.1)

22.4 (↓24.3)
15.5 (↓31.2)
18.6 (↓28.1)

24.9 (↓21.8)
35.6 (↓11.1)
37.5 (↓9.2)
44.8 (↓1.9)
19.2 (↓27.5)
21.1 (↓25.6)
11.4 (↓35.3)

43.5 (↓3.2)
41.0 (↓5.7)
46.7
58.4

25.0 (↓28.7)
40.7 (↓13.0)
50.9 (↓2.8)
59.7 (↑6.0)

50.9 (↓2.8)
52.3 (↓1.4)
60.2 (↑6.5)

12.5 (↓41.2)
38.9 (↓14.8)
49.1 (↓4.6)
40.3 (↓13.4)
42.6 (↓11.1)
40.3 (↓13.4)
28.7 (↓25.0)

45.4 (↓8.3)
57.4 (↑3.7)
53.7
72.7

51.1 (↓14.4)
60.7 (↓4.8)
66.8 (↑1.3)
67.7 (↑2.2)

68.6 (↑3.1)
70.3 (↑4.8)
80.8 (↑15.3)

21.4 (↓44.1)
38.9 (↓26.6)
40.6 (↓24.9)
47.6 (↓17.9)
65.9 (↑0.4)
59.4 (↓6.1)
62.9 (↓2.6)

56.8 (↓8.7)
60.3 (↓5.2)
65.5
82.5

31.4 (↓26.9)
40.3 (↓18.3)
46.0 (↓12.3)
48.4 (↓9.9)

49.1 (↓9.2)
47.2 (↓11.1)
55.4 (↓2.9)

30.6 (↓27.7)
44.0 (↓14.3)
46.8 (↓11.5)
48.7 (↓9.6)
44.4 (↓13.9)
43.3 (↓15.0)
38.5 (↓19.8)

51.2 (↓7.1)
55.2 (↓3.1)
58.3
73.4

14.7 (↓31.9)
26.2 (↓20.4)
30.8 (↓15.8)
33.3 (↓13.3)

34.8 (↓11.8)
29.7 (↓16.9)
30.1 (↓16.5)

35.8 (↓10.8)
39.4 (↓7.2)
43.0 (↓3.6)
47.0 (↑0.4)
35.1 (↓11.5)
35.1 (↓11.5)
33.0 (↓13.6)

45.5 (↓1.1)
46.2 (↓0.4)
46.6
53.8

23.0 (↓6.3)
21.8 (↓7.5)
25.9 (↓3.4)
27.6 (↓1.7)

23.6 (↓5.7)
27.0 (↓2.3)
26.4 (↓2.9)

16.7 (↓12.6)
19.5 (↓9.8)
20.7 (↓8.6)
24.7 (↓4.6)
27.0 (↓2.3)
20.1 (↓9.2)
21.8 (↓7.5)

26.4 (↓2.9)
24.7 (↓4.6)
29.3
35.6

1.9 (↓31.5)
6.6 (↓26.8)
6.6 (↓26.8)
12.0 (↓21.4)

14.8 (↓18.6)
9.5 (↓23.9)
11.7 (↓21.7)

18.3 (↓15.1)
24.9 (↓8.5)
26.5 (↓6.9)
32.1 (↓1.3)
13.2 (↓20.2)
14.0 (↓19.4)
7.9 (↓25.5)

20.6 (↓12.8)
27.9 (↓5.5)
33.4
36.2

10.6 (↓27.4)
21.3 (↓16.7)
26.4 (↓11.6)
31.9 (↓6.1)

29.2 (↓8.8)
27.3 (↓10.7)
24.5 (↓13.5)

8.8 (↓29.2)
28.7 (↓9.3)
34.7 (↓3.3)
31.9 (↓6.1)
24.5 (↓13.5)
21.8 (↓16.2)
15.7 (↓22.3)

31.0 (↓7.0)
36.1 (↓1.9)
38.0
43.9

10.0 (↓30.7)
33.2 (↓7.5)
38.4 (↓2.3)
38.4 (↓2.3)

40.2 (↓0.5)
38.9 (↓1.8)
31.0 (↓9.7)

14.0 (↓26.7)
23.6 (↓17.1)
23.6 (↓17.1)
30.3 (↓10.4)
38.9 (↓1.8)
32.9 (↓7.8)
35.4 (↓5.3)

30.3 (↓10.4)
35.1 (↓5.6)
40.7
45.5

10.9 (↓27.1)
20.9 (↓17.1)
24.4 (↓13.6)
27.7 (↓10.3)

28.0 (↓10.0)
25.3 (↓12.7)
24.0 (↓14.0)

19.6 (↓18.4)
27.9 (↓10.1)
30.4 (↓7.6)
34.1 (↓3.9)
27.1 (↓10.9)
24.7 (↓13.3)
22.2 (↓15.8)

30.8 (↓7.2)
34.5 (↓3.5)
38.0
43.3

to 4. For direct policy optimization, we employ the paged AdamW
optimizer with 32-bit precision, configured with a training duration
of 1 epoch and a learning rate of 1𝑒 − 5. The 𝛽 hyperparameter is
tuned via a grid search over the values {0.8, 1, 1.2} to identify the
optimal setting for the task. In our ablation analysis, we replace
fine-tuning with in-context learning [14] by preparing a prompt
that includes the 5 problem-specific examples in the training set
with the highest relevance scores.
Relationship with the KDDCup Contest. In the 2024 KDDCup
Contest, we were provided with a MockAPI as the information
source, which, given an entity name, returned nested JSON re-
sponses. Due to the limited number of LLM calls allowed in the
competition and the relatively fixed output format of the MockAPI,
we manually crafted rules to convert the MockAPI into the 𝐺𝐸𝑇
API proposed in this paper [44]. In this work, we propose the 𝐺𝐸𝑇
and 𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 API chains, use the APIs to access all data sources (in-
cluding newly expanded WIKI data source), refine API generation,
and introduce source selection. The contest solution is less general
and expressive than the ER-RAG framework proposed in our work.

5.2 Overall Performance Comparison
In this subsection, we compare ER-RAG with the baselines on the
CRAG dataset to illustrate ER-RAG’s performance on both single
and hybrid sources. We present the main result of the CRAG dataset
in Table 2. The conclusions can be drawn from the results:

1. RAG shows strong performance on the CRAG dataset, achiev-
ing improvements of 17.3%, 7.1%, and 13.0% in LLM scores over
the Llama3 8B baseline for DB, WIKI, and WEB, respectively.

2. The API implemented by our RAG method performs compa-
rably to other approaches, such as the NL2SQL or traditional web
page retrieval method, on single data sources. Notably, the individ-
ual GET implementation, which is not our main proposal, can take
advantage of the advances in each subtask.

3. The mixed-source agent (ER-RAG (MIX)) trained on a synthetic
training set outperforms all the single-source agents, illustrating
that using different sources in different hops in multi-hop questions
is useful in the CRAG dataset.

4. Aggregating all sources together (ER-RAG (Oracle)) can un-
leash a total potential of 73.4% in LLM score, demonstrating the sig-
nificant potential of the approach. However, fitting all the retrieval

Table 3: Performance (LLM scores) varying Difference API
Training Strategies. (Left: Performance on Synthetic-Test for
APIs Trained on Various Source Datasets. Right: MIX-Only
vs. MIX-Joint Training on CRAG.)

Source

Synthetic-Test

Domain MIX Joint MIX Only

MIX Joint
MIX Only
WIKI
DB
SELF

0.380
0.338
0.194
0.212
0.167

Movie
Music
Finance
Sports
Open

All

0.617
0.483
0.435
0.454
0.568

0.512

0.477
0.437
0.255
0.218
0.476

0.359

information from different sources in the LLM context (ER-RAG (All
in Context)) results in a performance loss of 22.2% compared to the
whole potential, demonstrating that simply putting all the sources
in the context can result in performance degradation. The complete
ER-RAG with the source selection module (ER-RAG (Source Selec-
tion)) achieves 58.3% LLM score, surpassing the 55.2% LLM score
of ER-RAG (All in Context), which illustrates the importance of
building a source selection system.

5. Our whole pipeline (ER-RAG (Source Selection)) using an 8B
backbone model exceeds any single source and is comparable to
(2.9% boost in LLM score) the best industrial RAG systems, which
rely on a complex retrieval pipeline and a large backbone model.

5.3 Analysis of ER-RAG on Multi-hop

Multi-source Queries

To demonstrate the API generation module’s capability on multi-
hop multi-source queries, we evaluate it on our synthetic test set.
Table 3 (left) shows the LLM scores, where the API generation
module trained on mixed-source APIs improves LLM scores by
18.6% and 16.8% compared to using WIKI and DB source agents
alone, respectively, highlighting ER-RAG’s effectiveness for multi-
source multi-hop queries.

As mentioned earlier, it is challenging to build a robust agent
with limited training data from a single source. Therefore, we con-
duct another experiment comparing training only on the synthetic
MIX training set (Mix Only) with joint training on the MIX training
set and other source training sets (Mix Joint) to demonstrate that
API training examples from other sources can significantly benefit
API generation on MIX sources. The results of our experiments are
presented in Table 3 (right). From the results, we observe that for

ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of Heterogeneous Data Sources

(a) Overall Source Distribution

(b) Cost and Accuracy Comparison on Different Methods

(c) Distribution of Data Sources for Different Methods

Figure 4: Detailed Source Selection Experiment on CRAG Dataset.

Table 4: Generalization Test on the CompMix Dataset (Col-
ored numbers indicate the best results among a certain type
of methods, ER-RAG trained on CRAG Dataset).

Types

Methods

LLM
only

Industry
systems

Single
data source
(Llama3 8B)

Llama3 8B
GPT-4o-mini
GPT-4o
DeepSeek v3

ChatGPT Plus (GPT-4o)
Claude-3-5-sonnet Pro
Perplexity (405B)
SuperSQL (DB, GPT-4o)
ER-RAG (DB, GPT-4o)
ER-RAG (WEB Chunk)
ER-RAG (WEB ER)
ER-RAG (WIKI ER)

Hybrid
data sources
(Llama3 8B)

ER-RAG (MIX)
ER-RAG (All in Context)
ER-RAG (Source Selection)
ER-RAG (Oracle)

Movie

Music

Sports

All

LLM scores

60.4 (↓19.0)
71.3 (↓8.1)
80.8 (↑1.4)
74.8 (↓4.6)

78.8 (↓0.6)
79.3 (↓0.1)
80.0 (↑0.6)
60.4 (↓19.0)
60.7 (↓18.7)
76.6 (↓2.8)
75.9 (↓3.5)
75.4 (↓4.0)

76.2 (↓3.2)
76.2 (↓3.2)
79.4
87.0

56.0 (↓20.5)
66.4 (↓10.1)
75.8 (↓0.7)
74.7 (↓1.8)

78.1 (↑1.6)
76.5 (↓0.0)
78.3 (↑1.8)
54.2 (↓22.3)
49.5 (↓27.0)
76.5 (↓0.0)
73.6 (↓2.9)
67.9 (↓8.6)

67.9 (↓8.6)
72.8 (↓3.7)
76.5
86.6

55.3 (↓21.4)
66.5 (↓10.2)
75.9 (↓0.8)
75.5 (↓1.2)

76.2 (↓0.5)
74.8 (↓1.9)
77.7 (↑1.0)
55.0 (↓21.7)
56.6 (↓20.1)
76.6 (↓0.1)
72.4 (↓4.3)
67.2 (↓9.5)

66.8 (↓9.9)
72.1 (↓4.6)
76.7
86.4

57.2 (↓20.1)
68.1 (↓9.2)
77.5 (↑0.2)
75.0 (↓2.3)

77.7 (↑0.4)
76.8 (↓0.5)
78.7 (↑1.4)
56.5 (↓20.8)
55.7 (↓21.6)
76.5 (↓0.8)
74.0 (↓3.3)
69.9 (↓7.4)

70.2 (↓7.1)
73.6 (↓3.7)
77.3
86.7

API construction on the CRAG dataset, joint training performs ap-
proximately 15.3% better than separate training in terms of overall
results. Specifically, for domains with more complex ER extraction
operation, such as Finance, joint training significantly outperforms
separate training by 18%. This indicates that joint training can better
integrate multi-source data and improve the model’s generalization
capability in certain challenging scenarios, easing the difficulty of
constructing agents.

5.4 Generalization of ER-RAG
To demonstrate the generalization of ER-RAG, we apply ER-RAG
trained on the CRAG dataset directly on the CompMix dataset, and
the results are in Table 4. Similar conclusions can be made about
the effect of RAG and source selection. The following conclusions
can be made: 1. The DB source from the CRAG dataset doesn’t
perform well on the CompMix dataset, illustrating that the data
source should be properly selected to fit in the queries. Irrelevant
information may harm the RAG performance. 2. The agent trained
on the CRAG training set transfers well to the CompMix dataset.
The combined heterogeneous sources results outperform single
sources and achieve similar results compared with the best indus-
trial result, reaching 89.2% of all the potential of the RAG system.
The source selection module eliminate the poor results from the
DB source, relying more heavily on the WEB and WIKI sources.

5.5 Source Selection Study
In this subsection, we focus on source selection. Figure 5(a) shows
the source distribution, Figure 5(b) presents efficiency and accuracy
of sources and methods, and Figure 5(c) displays the data source
distribution. We use SELF (no RAG), DB, WIKI, WEB, and MIX
(Multi-source API) to represent different sources. DB includes vari-
ous databases (e.g., Movie_DB), and MIX combines hybrid sources
(e.g., Movie_DB + WIKI). We use DB and MIX for simplicity.

We define training strategies for source selection: SFT prefer
uses the correct source with minimal execution time for super-
vised fine-tuning (SFT), and SFT only uses all correct sources as
labels. DPO only fine-tunes using execution time preference pairs.
SFT+DPO x% combines SFT to identify all correct sources and DPO
with x% of preference pairs. Oracle represents the ideal scenario of
selecting the correct source with minimal execution time. Metrics
include end-to-end retrieval time (in seconds, 0 for SELF), and the
accuracy compared to the oracle situation (1 for Oracle).
Overall Source Distribution. As shown in Figure 5(a), each source
has unique queries in the CRAG test dataset that only it can an-
swer, highlighting the importance of integrating sources to enhance
the RAG system’s potential. Additionally, many queries can be an-
swered by multiple sources, making it crucial to select the correct
source with minimal retrieval time.
Cost and Accuracy Comparison on Different Methods. We can
draw two conclusions from Figure 5(b). 1. The execution time for
different sources varies significantly, ranging from 0s for no RAG to
104𝑠 for multi-source APIs. For single sources, WIKI costs the most
time for retrieval as the pipeline requires much running time for en-
tity selection and attribute extraction. 2. The SFT prefer, SFT only,
and DPO only method all have their own drawbacks. Although the
SFT prefer approach is the fastest among the tuning methods, the
accuracy deteriorates a lot. The SFT only method can choose the
source with higher accuracy, while due to the lack of perception of
the execution time, the overall retrieval time cost is relatively high.
The DPO only method tends to choose the source with a lower cost,
while the accuracy is sacrificed. Our two-stage training method
can achieve a balance between accuracy and efficiency. As we can
see SFT+DPO can achieve slightly higher accuracy compared with
SFT only, while the time cost is significantly lower than the SFT
only result. Compared with the DPO only result, the accuracy
result is much better.
Distribution of Different Methods Across Data Sources. We
can draw more insights from the chosen source distribution. From

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1

removing specific modules entirely: Without Post-processing
(w/o P) refers to eliminating the post-processing module.

From the results, we can draw the following conclusions:
1. Across all modules, models that utilize fine-tuning outperform
those relying solely on ICL. This demonstrates the importance of
leveraging strong models for APIs, fine-tuning source selection
results based on execution outcomes, and distilling knowledge for
post-processing and entities from larger and stronger LLMs. The
results suggest that the 8B base model is insufficient when only
using ICL. Significant improvements can be distilled from large
models such as DeepSeek/GPT-4 and manually annotated datasets.
2. The post-processing module plays a crucial role, particularly
in the DB source, where it achieves a performance gain of 5%.
From the perspective of question types, the performance boost
is most significant on the simple with conditions (12%) question
type, as the conditions in these queries require more intensive
post-processing. This highlights this module’s ability to address
computations required in database queries. However, for other
sources where retrieval is inherently less precise, the contribution
of the post-processing module is relatively limited.

6 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Motivated by the need for evidence collection from heterogeneous
data sources in RAG, this paper introduces ER-RAG, which en-
hances LLM capabilities using ER-based unified APIs for HTML,
knowledge graphs, and relational databases. ER-RAG enables seam-
less interaction between data sources, provides diverse training
instances for API generation, and balances response time and perfor-
mance through DPO-based source selection. Experiments demon-
strate that ER-RAG matches source-specific or commercial RAG
performance while excelling on multi-source tasks.

ER-RAG can be extended in the following interesting directions.
First, ER-RAG can leverage more advanced retrieval techniques
proposed for the specific source. Such an improvement can be
done at the implementation of the unified Access APIs and will not
impact the entire process. Second, ER-RAG is expected to combine
more sources, like multi-modal data sources, into the RAG pipeline.
Third, ER-RAG will collect the user’s feedback and incorporate it
in fine-tuning the LLM agents timely so as to improve the user’s
experience.

(a) DB

(b) WIKI

(c) WEB
Figure 5: Detailed Ablation Experiment on CRAG Dataset:
Performance Across Domains and Question Types. Question
types include Aggregation (Agg.), Post-Processing (PP.), Set,
Comparison (Comp.), Simple with Condition (SWC.), and
Multi-Hop (M-Hop).

the oracle perspective, choosing a large proportion of SELF source
(No RAG) can achieve good results. However, it’s hard for the LLM
to determine whether a question can be answered without RAG, as
the DPO only and SFT prefer results choosing the SELF sources
more frequently in performance loss. Compared with the SFT only
method, our proposed method cautiously chooses more SELF source
to ensure higher efficiency and maintain accuracy.

5.6 Further Ablation Study on ER-RAG
In this subsection, we perform an ablation study to assess the impact
of different ER-RAG modules across domains and question types on
CRAG (Figure 5). The vertical axis shows domain and question type
results, while the horizontal axis represents methods: DB, WIKI,
WEB (complete model in each source) and Llama3 (base model
without RAG).

Other methods can be grouped into two categories. The first
category replaces fine-tuning with in-context learning (ICL) for
different components: API_ICL (A-ICL) represents using ICL to
generate API calls, Post-processing_ICL (P-ICL) denotes using
ICL to produce post-processing results, and Entity_ICL (E-ICL) ap-
plies ICL for information extraction in WIKI entity disambiguation
and 𝐺𝐸𝑇 /𝐽𝑂𝐼 𝑁 attribute modules. The second category involves

ER-RAG: Enhance RAG with ER-Based Unified Modeling of Heterogeneous Data Sources

REFERENCES
[1] Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2024.
Self-RAG: Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Reflection.
In ICLR.
Jinze Bai, Jialin Wang, Zhao Li, Donghui Ding, Ji Zhang, and Jun Gao. 2021. ATJ-
Net: Auto-Table-Join Network for Automatic Learning on Relational Databases.
In WWW. 1540–1551.

[2]

[3] Asim Biswal, Liana Patel, Siddarth Jha, Amog Kamsetty, Shu Liu, Joseph E.
Gonzalez, Carlos Guestrin, and Matei Zaharia. 2024. Text2SQL is Not Enough:
Unifying AI and Databases with TAG. CoRR abs/2408.14717 (2024).

[4] Pierre Bourhis, Juan L. Reutter, Fernando Suárez, and Domagoj Vrgoc. 2017.
JSON: Data model, Query languages and Schema specification. In PODS.
[5] Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan,
Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan,
Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter,
Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin
Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya
Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020. Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. In
NeurIPS 2020.

[6] Riccardo Cappuzzo, Paolo Papotti, and Saravanan Thirumuruganathan. 2020.
Creating Embeddings of Heterogeneous Relational Datasets for Data Integration
Tasks. In SIGMOD. 1335–1349.

[8]

[7] Anthony Chen, Gabriel Stanovsky, Sameer Singh, and Matt Gardner. 2019. Eval-
uating question answering evaluation. In Proceedings of the 2nd workshop on
machine reading for question answering. 119–124.
Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. 2024.
Bge m3-embedding: Multi-lingual, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text
embeddings through self-knowledge distillation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03216
(2024).

[9] Peter Baile Chen, Yi Zhang, and Dan Roth. 2024. Is Table Retrieval a Solved
Problem? Exploring Join-Aware Multi-Table Retrieval. In ACL. 2687–2699.
[10] Peter P. Chen. 1975. The Entity-Relationship Model: Toward a Unified View of

Data. In Proceedings of VLDB, 1975. 173.

[11] Paul F. Christiano, Jan Leike, Tom B. Brown, Miljan Martic, Shane Legg, and
Dario Amodei. 2017. Deep Reinforcement Learning from Human Preferences. In
NIPS. 4299–4307.

[12] Philipp Christmann, Rishiraj Saha Roy, and Gerhard Weikum. 2024. CompMix:

[13]

A Benchmark for Heterogeneous Question Answering. In WWW. 1091–1094.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding.
In NAACL-HLT 2019. 4171–4186.

[14] Qingxiu Dong, Lei Li, Damai Dai, Ce Zheng, Jingyuan Ma, Rui Li, Heming Xia,
Jingjing Xu, Zhiyong Wu, Baobao Chang, et al. 2024. A Survey on In-context
Learning. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing. 1107–1128.

[15] Xin Luna Dong. 2023. Generations of Knowledge Graphs: The Crazy Ideas and

the Business Impact. Proc. VLDB Endow. 16, 12 (2023), 4130–4137.

[16] Xin Luna Dong, Evgeniy Gabrilovich, Kevin Murphy, Van Dang, Wilko Horn,
Camillo Lugaresi, Shaohua Sun, and Wei Zhang. 2015. Knowledge-Based Trust:
Estimating the Trustworthiness of Web Sources. Proc. VLDB Endow. 8, 9 (2015),
938–949.

[17] Xin Luna Dong, Barna Saha, and Divesh Srivastava. 2012. Less is More: Selecting

Sources Wisely for Integration. Proc. VLDB Endow. 6, 2 (2012), 37–48.

[18] Wenqi Fan, Yujuan Ding, Liangbo Ning, Shijie Wang, Hengyun Li, Dawei Yin,
Tat-Seng Chua, and Qing Li. 2024. A Survey on RAG Meeting LLMs: Towards
Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models. In Proceedings of SIGKDD 2024.
6491–6501.

[19] Dawei Gao, Haibin Wang, Yaliang Li, Xiuyu Sun, Yichen Qian, Bolin Ding, and
Jingren Zhou. 2024. Text-to-SQL Empowered by Large Language Models: A
Benchmark Evaluation. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 17, 5 (2024), 1132–
1145.

[20] Luyu Gao, Xueguang Ma, Jimmy Lin, and Jamie Callan. 2023. Precise Zero-Shot
Dense Retrieval without Relevance Labels. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers).
1762–1777.

[21] Matt Gardner, Partha Pratim Talukdar, Jayant Krishnamurthy, and Tom M.
Mitchell. 2014. Incorporating Vector Space Similarity in Random Walk Inference
over Knowledge Bases. In EMNLP. 397–406.

[22] Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang.
2020. Retrieval Augmented Language Model Pre-Training. In Proceedings of the
37th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2020, 13-18 July 2020,
Virtual Event, Vol. 119. 3929–3938.

[23] Harry Shomer Kai Guo Jiayuan Ding Yongjia Lei Mahantesh Halappanavar
Ryan A. Rossi Subhabrata Mukherjee Xianfeng Tang Qi He Zhigang Hua Bo
Long Tong Zhao Neil Shah Amin Javari Yinglong Xia Jiliang Tang Haoyu Han,
Yu Wang. 2025. Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Graphs (GraphRAG).

[24]

CoRR abs/2501.00309 (2025).
Jonathan Herzig, Thomas Müller, Syrine Krichene, and Julian Martin Eisenschlos.
2021. Open Domain Question Answering over Tables via Dense Retrieval. In
NAACL-HLT. 512–519.

[25] Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean
Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. 2022. LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of
Large Language Models. In The Tenth International Conference on Learning
Representations, ICLR 2022, Virtual Event, April 25-29, 2022. OpenReview.net.
https://openreview.net/forum?id=nZeVKeeFYf9

[26] Qitian Jason Hu, Jacob Bieker, Xiuyu Li, Nan Jiang, Benjamin Keigwin, Gaurav
Ranganath, Kurt Keutzer, and Shriyash Kaustubh Upadhyay. 2024. RouterBench:
A Benchmark for Multi-LLM Routing System. CoRR abs/2403.12031 (2024).
[27] Dongfu Jiang, Xiang Ren, and Bill Yuchen Lin. 2023. LLM-Blender: Ensembling
Large Language Models with Pairwise Ranking and Generative Fusion. In ACL.
14165–14178.

[28] Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-
Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Active Retrieval
Augmented Generation. In EMNLP 2023. 7969–7992.

[29] Dongyoung Kim, Jaehyung Kim, Kimin Lee, and Jinwoo Shin. 2025. Spread
Preference Annotation: Direct Preference Judgment for Efficient LLM Alignment.
In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations. https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=BPgK5XW1Nb

[30] Viktor Leis, Andrey Gubichev, Atanas Mirchev, Peter A. Boncz, Alfons Kemper,
and Thomas Neumann. 2015. How Good Are Query Optimizers, Really? Proc.
VLDB Endow. 9, 3 (2015), 204–215.

[31] Boyan Li, Yuyu Luo, Chengliang Chai, Guoliang Li, and Nan Tang. 2024. The
Dawn of Natural Language to SQL: Are We Fully Ready? [Experiment, Analysis
& Benchmark ]. Proc. VLDB Endow. 17, 11 (2024), 3318–3331.
Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. 2019. Decoupled Weight Decay Regularization.
In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2019, New
Orleans, LA, USA, May 6-9, 2019.

[32]

[33] Shengjie Ma, Chengjin Xu, Xuhui Jiang, Muzhi Li, Huaren Qu, and Jian Guo. 2024.
Think-on-Graph 2.0: Deep and Interpretable Large Language Model Reasoning
with Knowledge Graph-guided Retrieval. CoRR abs/2407.10805 (2024).
Isaac Ong, Amjad Almahairi, Vincent Wu, Wei-Lin Chiang, Tianhao Wu, Joseph E.
Gonzalez, M. Waleed Kadous, and Ion Stoica. 2024. RouteLLM: Learning to Route
LLMs with Preference Data. CoRR abs/2406.18665 (2024).

[34]

[35] Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D. Manning, Stefano
Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2023. Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language
Model is Secretly a Reward Model. In NeurIPS 2023.

[36] Stephen E. Robertson, Hugo Zaragoza, and Michael J. Taylor. 2004. Simple BM25

extension to multiple weighted fields. In CIKM 2004. 42–49.

[37] Bhaskarjit Sarmah, Benika Hall, Rohan Rao, Sunil Patel, Stefano Pasquali, and
Dhagash Mehta. 2024. HybridRAG: Integrating Knowledge Graphs and Vector
Retrieval Augmented Generation for Efficient Information Extraction. CoRR
abs/2408.04948 (2024).
John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov.
2017. Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms. CoRR abs/1707.06347 (2017).

[38]

[39] Özge Sevgili, Artem Shelmanov, Mikhail Arkhipov, Alexander Panchenko, and
Chris Biemann. 2022. Neural entity linking: A survey of models based on deep
learning. Semantic Web 13, 3 (2022), 527–570.

[41]

[40] Kazunari Sugiyama, Kenji Hatano, Masatoshi Yoshikawa, and Shunsuke Uemura.
2003. Refinement of TF-IDF schemes for web pages using their hyperlinked
neighboring pages. In HYPERTEXT 2003. 198–207.
Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun
Gong, Lionel M. Ni, Heung-Yeung Shum, and Jian Guo. 2024. Think-on-Graph:
Deep and Responsible Reasoning of Large Language Model on Knowledge Graph.
In ICLR.

[42] Christina Unger, Lorenz Bühmann, Jens Lehmann, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo,
Daniel Gerber, and Philipp Cimiano. 2012. Template-based question answering
over RDF data. In WWW. 639–648.

[43] Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement De-
langue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz,
et al. 2019. Huggingface’s transformers: State-of-the-art natural language pro-
cessing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.03771 (2019).

[44] Yikuan Xia, Jiazun Chen, and Jun Gao. 2024. Winning Solution For Meta KDD

Cup’ 24. CoRR abs/2410.00005 (2024).

[45] Hao Xin Yushi Sun Nikita Bhalla Xiangsen Chen Sajal Choudhary Rongze Daniel
Gui Ziran Will Jiang Ziyu Jiang Lingkun Kong Brian Moran Jiaqi Wang Yifan
Ethan Xu An Yan Chenyu Yang Eting Yuan Hanwen Zha Nan Tang Lei Chen
Nicolas Scheffer Yue Liu Nirav Shah Rakesh Wanga Anuj Kumar Wen-tau Yih Xin
Luna Dong Xiao Yang, Kai Sun. 2024. CRAG - Comprehensive RAG Benchmark.
CoRR abs/2406.04744 (2024).

[46] Xiao Yang, Kai Sun, Hao Xin, Yushi Sun, Nikita Bhalla, Xiangsen Chen, Sajal
Choudhary, Rongze Daniel Gui, Ziran Will Jiang, Ziyu Jiang, et al. 2024. CRAG–
Comprehensive RAG Benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04744 (2024).
[47] Dezhong Yao, Yuhong Gu, Gao Cong, Hai Jin, and Xinqiao Lv. 2022. Entity
Resolution with Hierarchical Graph Attention Networks. In SIGMOD. 429–442.

[48] Wen-tau Yih, Ming-Wei Chang, Xiaodong He, and Jianfeng Gao. 2015. Semantic
Parsing via Staged Query Graph Generation: Question Answering with Knowl-
edge Base. In ACL. 1321–1331.

Yikuan Xia∗1, Jiazun Chen∗1, Yirui Zhan1, Suifeng Zhao1, Weipeng Jiang2,
Chaorui Zhang2, Wei Han2, Bo Bai†2, Jun Gao†1