CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval
Augmented Generation through Self-Training
Mukta Maddipatla
University of Massachusetts Amherst
United States
mmaddipatla@umass.edu

Alireza Salemi
University of Massachusetts Amherst
United States
asalemi@cs.umass.edu

Hamed Zamani
University of Massachusetts Amherst
United States
zamani@cs.umass.edu

5
2
0
2

n
u
J

2
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
4
4
8
0
1
.
6
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

ABSTRACT
This paper presents mRAG, a multi-agent retrieval-augmented gen-
eration (RAG) framework composed of specialized agents for sub-
tasks such as planning, searching, reasoning, and coordination. Our
system uses a self-training paradigm with reward-guided trajec-
tory sampling to optimize inter-agent collaboration and enhance
response generation. Evaluated on DataMorgana-derived datasets
during the SIGIR 2025 LiveRAG competition, mRAG outperforms
conventional RAG baselines. We further analyze competition out-
comes and showcase the framework’s strengths with case studies,
demonstrating its efficacy for complex, real-world RAG tasks.

1 INTRODUCTION
RAG enhances large language models (LLMs) by integrating exter-
nal retrieval mechanisms, addressing limitations like static knowl-
edge and lack of grounding in current, verifiable sources [1, 9, 13].
Unlike traditional LLMs limited by fixed training data, RAG enables
real-time access to relevant documents from sources such as search
engines or databases [14, 15], improving accuracy and relevance
without retraining. Recently, autonomous agents have emerged as
a powerful extension of RAG [8, 17], capable of complex reasoning,
tool use, and multi-step decision-making. Their modular design
supports dynamic, goal-directed information synthesis, making
them effective for real-world tasks requiring flexibility and depth.
While single-agent RAG systems are useful, they struggle with
scalability, specialization, and effective context management. A sin-
gle agent juggling multiple tasks—like query formulation, retrieval,
synthesis, and validation—can suffer from context overlap, leading
to inefficiencies and degraded performance. Multi-agent RAG sys-
tems address these issues through modular design. By assigning
distinct roles (e.g., searcher, planner, summarizer, validator) to sep-
arate agents, each operates within a focused context, improving
efficiency and task alignment. Inter-agent communication further
enables better task decomposition and parallel execution, enhanc-
ing robustness and adaptability in complex reasoning workflows.
We introduce mRAG, a framework for building and optimizing
multi-agent RAG systems. It consists of a set of task-specialized
agents—such as a planner, searcher, and reasoner–each handling
a distinct subtask. A central coordinator agent orchestrates the
workflow by dynamically invoking agents, routing information,
and monitoring progress toward a final response. The coordinator
has control over the decision process and terminates the workflow
once a satisfactory output is produced. To train agents, we adopt
a self-training approach inspired by Singh et al. [16], generating
diverse agent interaction trajectories for each input. These are
evaluated with a reward model, and high-reward trajectories are

used as supervision. Agents are trained to reproduce these high-
rewarded behaviors, promoting effective generation in future runs.
We present our experimental results from the LiveRAG1 com-
petition, demonstrating that the proposed multi-agent framework
outperforms the traditional retrieve-then-read RAG paradigm on
a dataset derived from DataMorgana [3], the competition’s data
generation tool. Additionally, we analyze our performance on the
competition test day and offer insights into the evaluation pro-
cess. Finally, we include case studies highlighting examples where
our multi-agent system achieves notably strong performance. We
release our code to facilitate further research on this topic.2

2 DATA CREATION WITH DATAMORGANA
To construct training and validation data for mRAG, we used Data-
Morgana [3] to generate a set of QA pairs. We defined 10 different
question categories that were subsequently grouped into 5 combi-
nations (definition of each category is reported in Appendix A):
• User Expertise: This category specifies the user’s level of ex-
pertise on the topic by distinguishing between expert and novice
users of the system (Figure 3 in Appendix A).

• Question Type: This specifies the question phrasing style, vary-
ing along dimensions such as length (short vs. long), formality
(natural vs. query-like), and verbosity (concise vs. verbose), re-
sulting in six distinct combinations (Figure 4 in Appendix A).
• Answer Type: This defines the answer phrasing, varying along
the dimensions of natural vs. formal and concise vs. verbose,
resulting in four distinct combinations (Figure 10 in Appendix A).
• Question Intent: This defines the intention behind the question,
encompassing categories such as clarification, opinion, compari-
son, yes/no, and hypothetical questions (Figure 7 in Appendix A).
• Answer Intent: This specifies intents behind responses, catego-
rized as either factual or open-ended (Figure 5 in Appendix A).
• Premise Inclusion: This indicates whether the question in-
cludes user-specific information, resulting in two variations: with
premise and without premise (Figure 6 in Appendix A).

• Lexical Similarity: This specifies the lexical alignment between
questions and documents: using similar terms, different terms,
or referencing unpopular entities (Figure 12 in Appendix A).
• Aspect Granularity: This defines whether the question capture
a single or multiple aspects of the topic (Figure 8 in Appendix A).
• Interaction Type: This defines whether the question initiates a
conversation or is a follow-up question (Figure 9 in Appendix A).
• Document Granularity: This specifies whether one or two
documents are used to generate the question, using the feature
in the DataMorgana platform (Figure 11 in Appendix A).

1Competition website can be found at: https://liverag.tii.ae/index.php
2Available at: https://github.com/muktac5/CIIR-LiveRAG

 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

use instruct Qwen 2.5 with 7B parameters [12] with the prompt
shown in Figure 15 in Appendix D.1 in each step. The detailed
implementation is provided in Algorithm 1 in Appendix D.1.

Searcher. To access the corpus and collect information necessary
for answering the question, the coordinator can invoke the searcher
agent by providing the question, the information gathered so far,
and a suggested set of aspects to guide the search. The searcher
agent begins by generating a search query, which is executed using
the sparse Lion retrieval model with 1B parameters (detailed im-
plementation and corpus processing described in Appendix C) [20]
to retrieve two documents. Next, the searcher agent evaluates the
relevance of each retrieved document, providing justifications and
marking the relevant ones. At this stage, the agent has three main
options: (1) continue the search using the same query to retrieve the
next two documents, (2) modify the search query and explain the
rationale for the new query, or (3) terminate the search, explaining
why, and return the relevant documents found so far. This process
continues until either the maximum retrieval budget is reached or
the agent decides that sufficient information has been gathered.
This design allows the searcher agent to dynamically determine the
appropriate amount of information to collect for each query. The
agent uses the instruct Qwen 2.5 model with 7B parameters [12] and
the prompt shown in Figure 16 in Appendix D.1 in each step. The
detailed implementation of this agent is provided in Algorithm 2.

Planner. This agent is responsible for generating a sequence of
steps required to produce a response to the question, based on the
given question and the information collected so far. Although it can
be invoked at any stage by the coordinator agent, it is recommended
to be called at the beginning of the response generation process. The
prompt used for this agent is shown in Figure 17 in Appendix D.1.
This agent uses an instruct Qwen 2.5 with 7B parameters [12].

Summarizer. As the conversation between agents grows longer,
it becomes increasingly challenging for the coordinator to track all
relevant details. To mitigate this, the coordinator can invoke this
agent and provide selected information to summarize the conversa-
tion or the retrieved and collected content up to that point, using
the prompt shown in Figure 18 in Appendix D.1. This agent uses
an instruct Qwen 2.5 with 7B parameters [12].

Reasoner. When step-by-step reasoning or analysis is required
regarding the retrieved information, actions taken, or any other
aspect of the process, this agent can be invoked by providing the
question, relevant information, and a specific aspect to reason about.
This agent uses the prompt shown in Figure 19 in Appendix D.1.
This agent uses an instruct Qwen 2.5 with 7B parameters [12].

Validator. Sometimes, questions may specify certain criteria that
must be satisfied. This agent can be invoked when a response has
been generated and the coordinator needs to ensure that all criteria
are addressed. The coordinator provides the question, retrieved
information, and a response to this agent, which then extracts the
criteria from the question and verifies whether they are fulfilled in
the response and provides rationals for each of its decisions. This
process uses the prompt shown in Figure 20 in Appendix D.1 using
an instruct Qwen 2.5 with 7B parameters [12].

Figure 1: Overview of multi-agent RAG.

After interacting with DataMorgana, we find that using all cate-
gories simultaneously does not yield high-quality outputs. Conse-
quently, we grouped them into five combinations when invoking
DataMorgana for data generation. All combinations include the
following core dimensions: User Expertise, Question Type, Answer
Type, Document Granularity, Interaction Type, and Aspect Granu-
larity. The remaining categories in each combination are as follows:
• Answer Intent and Lexical Similarity.
• Premise Inclusion.
• Question Intent.
• Premise Inclusion and Question Intent.
• Lexical Similarity and Premise Inclusion.
where we generate 4,500 question-answer pairs with DataMorgana,
allocating 3,500 for training and 1,000 for evaluation of our system.
Details of the data generation process are provided in Appendix A.

3 THE MRAG FRAMEWORK
Our framework employs six action-performing agents and one
coordinator agent to generate responses. An overview of mRAG
is shown in Figure 1. This section provides implementation and
training details of the multi-agent system.

3.1 Agents in mRAG
This section describes the implementation of the agents.

Coordinator. This agent serves as the entry point of mRAG. It
receives a question and a set of agents with defined input and out-
put formats, and is responsible for assigning tasks to these agents
based on their respective expertise. In each turn, the coordinator
selects an appropriate agent based on the current state alongside
the rational behind selection of this agent, formats and passes the
necessary inputs, and waits for the agent to complete its task and
return outputs in the expected format. Upon receiving the output,
the coordinator updates its internal state by appending the new
outputs to the conversation history, and updates either the response
(if one was generated) or the set of supporting documents (if new
information was retrieved). This process is repeated iteratively.
Once the computation budget is exhausted or the coordinator de-
termines that no further actions are required and a high-quality
response has been produced, it terminates the process and returns
the final response along with the supporting documents. This agent

SearcherAgentRetrieverIndexCoordinatorAgentGeneratorReviserAgentPlannerAgentReasonerAgentSummarizerAgentQuestionOutputValidatorAgentCIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Generator/Reviser. To generate a response, the coordinator in-
vokes this agent by providing the question, supporting information
collected during the process, a response plan, and a set of key as-
pects that should be included. The agent then generates a response
that incorporates these elements. Additionally, if the coordinator
determines that the response requires revision—either due to newly
collected information or unmet criteria—it can call this agent again
with suggestions outlining the deficiencies and how to address them.
This agent uses the prompts shown in Figure 21 in Appendix D.1.
Due to competition constraints, we use the instruction-tuned Falcon
3 model with 10B parameters [19] for this agent.

3.2 Optimization through Self-Training
End-to-end training of multi-agent systems is challenging due to
computational inefficiency and the difficulty of propagating gra-
dients across agents [4, 5]. To simplify the training process, we
make a key assumption: agents operate independently and function
solely based on their provided inputs. With this assumption, the
probability of a trajectory of actions taken by the agents, denoted
as 𝜏 = 𝑎1𝑎2 . . . 𝑎𝑛, simplifies from the full joint distribution

𝑝 (𝑎1 . . . 𝑎𝑛 | 𝑥) = 𝑝 (𝑎1 | 𝑥) 𝑝 (𝑎2 | 𝑎1, 𝑥) . . . 𝑝 (𝑎𝑛 | 𝑎𝑛−1, . . . , 𝑎1, 𝑥)
to the following factorized form:

𝑝 (𝜏 | 𝑥) = 𝑝 (𝑎1 . . . 𝑎𝑛 | 𝑥) = 𝑝 (𝑎1 | 𝑥) 𝑝 (𝑎2 | 𝑥) . . . 𝑝 (𝑎𝑛 | 𝑥),

assuming conditional independence of agent actions given the in-
put 𝑥. With this simplification, we can use Self-Training [16] to
optimize the system end to end. We first sample 𝑇 = 8 diverse
trajectories for each input in the training set by applying a high
sampling temperature. A reward model 𝑅𝑀 is then applied to the
final response of each trajectory for scoring. We retain only the
trajectory with the highest reward score for each input (allowing up
to three trajectories in case of ties, to avoid overfitting on simpler
examples). These selected trajectories are used to train the agents
to reproduce the optimal sequence of actions. Following Singh et al.
[16], we normalize the reward by setting the reward 𝑟 (𝜏, 𝑥) of the
best-performing trajectory to 1 (by setting the threshold score to
match the highest observed reward) and others to zero. Therefore,
the training objective is to maximize:

E𝜏∼𝐷 [𝑟 (𝜏, 𝑥) log 𝑝 (𝜏 | 𝑥)] = E𝜏∼𝐷

log 𝑝 (𝑎𝑖 | 𝑥)

∑︁





𝑎𝑖 ∈𝐴










where 𝐴 is the set of actions performed by trainable agents (i.e., all
agents except the generator/reviser that is fixed due to competition
constraints) and 𝐷 is the set of all selected trajectories after applying
reward model. This objective is equivalent to supervised fine-tuning
[18] of the agents on their own best-performing outputs within
the selected trajectories. This encourages each agent to replicate
the behavior observed in the highest-reward (i.e., most successful)
trajectory, promoting consistency with effective sequences. The
training details and parameters are provided in Appendix D.2.

Figure 2: Evaluation of mRAG and baselines using the intro-
duced reward models in Section 3.2 and Appendix D.3.

• correctness: We adopt the recall-oriented nugget-based reward
proposed by Pradeep et al. [11]. In this approach, we first extract
the atomic aspects that should be present in the output from
the ground truth response using the prompt shown in Figure 22
in Appendix D.3. Each extracted aspect is then evaluated for
alignment with the generated response using the prompt shown
in Figure 23 in Appendix D.3, with scores assigned on a scale from
–1 to 2. These scores are subsequently normalized to the range
[0, 1]. The final correctness reward is computed as the average
normalized score across all nugget aspects. The implementation
is detailed in Algorithm 3 in Appendix D.3.

• Faithfulness: This reward model evaluates the faithfulness of the
generated response with respect to the retrieved information.
Following Es et al. [2], we first extract the atomic aspects from
the generated response using the prompt in Figure 24 in Appen-
dix D.3. Each aspect is then scored for how well it is supported by
the retrieved documents using the prompt in Figure 25 in Appen-
dix D.3, on a scale from –1 to 1, which is subsequently normalized
to the range [0, 1]. The final faithfulness score is computed as
the average normalized score across all extracted aspects. The
implementation is detailed in Algorithm 4 in Appendix D.3.

To compute the final reward, we run each reward model five
times and take the average score for each. We observed that mRAG
performs worst on the correctness reward. To emphasize improve-
ment in this area, we assign a weight of 4 to the correctness reward
and a weight of 1 to faithfulness reward, and compute a weighted
average to obtain the final reward. We use instruct Qwen 2.5 with
14B parameters [12] as the LLM for all reward functions.

4 EXPERIMENTS
This section presents our findings. The experimental setup is de-
scribed in Appendix D.4. For comparison, we consider two baseline
models: a standard language model without retrieval augmenta-
tion (vanilla LLM) and a retrieval-augmented generation model
(vanilla RAG) that follows a retrieve-then-read paradigm. Detailed
implementation of the baseline systems is provided in Appendix B.

Reward Model. The competition does not provide a publicly avail-
able scoring function. However, based on the provided guidelines,
we define and utilize two distinct reward signals (more implemen-
tation details are explained in Appendix D.3):

Results on the created test set from DataMorgana. We com-
pare mRAG with two baseline approaches: a vanilla LLM without
retrieval augmentation (RAG) and a vanilla RAG system employing
a retrieve-then-read paradigm. Evaluation results on the test set

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Table 1: Results of the top 20 participating teams in the Liv-
eRAG competition. The competition-defined evaluation met-
rics assign scores in the range of -1 and 2 for correctness, and
-1 and 1 for faithfulness. The final ranking is determined by
sorting the teams based on correctness scores.

Rank Team

Correctness

Faithfulness

rewards. However, this comes at the cost of conciseness and clarity,
resulting in redundant and potentially less helpful output for users.
This suggests that recall-focused metrics may encourage verbosity
over precision. To address this, future evaluation strategies should
aim to balance both recall and precision by incorporating metrics
that also account for relevance and brevity, better aligning with
user expectations for clear and informative responses.

1
2
3
4
5
6

7

8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20

Magikarp
UDInfo
RMIT-ADMS
RAGtifier
HLTCOE
Ragmatazz

mRAG

RUC_DeepSearch
Ped100X
PRMAS-DRCA
Emorag
Graph-Enhanced RAG
Hybrid Search with Graph
Multi-Agent Adaptive RAG
Starlight
BagBag
UniClustRAG
METURAG
NoobRAG
DeepRAG

1.231
1.200
1.199
1.134
1.070
1.011

0.996

0.969
0.928
0.922
0.890
0.875
0.875
0.836
0.818
0.694
0.685
0.673
0.655
0.566

0.656
0.623
0.477
0.552
0.340
0.519

0.418

0.387
0.043
0.410
0.556
0.529
0.315
0.200
0.433
-0.911
0.460
0.325
0.154
0.097

derived from DataMorgana are presented in Figure 2. The findings
indicate that mRAG, when optimized using the method described in
Section 3.2, outperforms both baselines in terms of correctness and
faithfulness. Notably, even without training, mRAG achieves compa-
rable correctness to the vanilla RAG while demonstrating superior
faithfulness. Across all configurations, RAG-based methods—mRAG
and vanilla RAG—consistently outperform the non-RAG baseline.
Based on these results, mRAG demonstrates the best overall perfor-
mance on the constructed dataset from DataMorgana.

Results on the test set from the competition. The results of
mRAG and other top 20 participating systems on the test set pro-
vided by the LiveRAG competition prganizers during the official test
day are presented in Table 1. The specific implementation details of
the correctness and faithfulness metrics reported in Table 1 are not
publicly available. However, the correctness scores range from -1 to
2, while the faithfulness scores range from -1 to 1, as defined by the
competition organizers. We report the raw, unnormalized scores
as provided by the competition evaluation process. According to
these results, which are ranked based on the correctness metric,
mRAG achieves the 7th position among all participating teams.

Unstability of the recall-oriented nugget-based evaluation
of correctness. In one of our experiments, we found that sim-
ply prompting the LLM to produce longer responses—without any
additional training—raised the nugget-based recall reward from
0.528 to 0.584. This highlights a key limitation in current evaluation
methods: as responses become longer, they are more likely to in-
clude a greater number of nuggets, thereby inflating recall-oriented

5 CASE STUDY
To show the effectiveness of mRAG, we present two case studies
that illustrate the system’s decision-making trajectories and inter-
agent interactions in response to user queries. Detailed descriptions
of these case studies are provided in Appendix E. We examine
two notable behaviors exhibited by the system after training, as
observed in its responses to the queries: “safety concerns hydrogen
steam reforming” and “How did John Ball influence golf history
at Hoylake, and what strategic challenges does the course present
regarding out of bounds?”. These two notable behaviors emerged:

• Breaking down the question and collecting information
about each aspect: In both cases, as illustrated in Table 2 and
Table 3 in Appendix E, the system decomposes each question
into multiple aspects that must be addressed to formulate a com-
prehensive response. The coordinator invokes the searcher agent
twice in each case to retrieve information corresponding to two
distinct facets of the query. The retrieved information is then
relayed to other agents responsible for response generation, rea-
soning, and validation. These interactions demonstrate that the
coordinator has effectively learned how to orchestrate the contri-
butions of other agents—particularly the searcher, which plays a
critical role in supporting information acquisition.

• Changing search query after retrieval failure: In both exam-
ples presented in Table 2 and Table 3 in Appendix E, the searcher
agent demonstrates adaptive behavior in response to retrieval
failures. When the initial query fails to yield sufficient or rele-
vant results, the searcher does not immediately reformulate the
query. Instead, it reuses the same query for up to five retrieval at-
tempts, aiming to extract useful information from lower-ranked
documents—accounting for potential imperfections in the re-
triever. Only after these repeated attempts does the agent revise
the query to explore alternative formulations. This behavior indi-
cates that the searcher has learned a robust strategy for balancing
persistence with query reformulation in the presence of retrieval
noise or deficiencies.

Further details of the case studies are provided in Appendix E,
which highlight several notable emergent behaviors exhibited by
the system after training.

6 CONCLUSION
This paper presented mRAG, a multi-agent framework designed for
RAG, along with a training methodology to optimize inter-agent
communication. We trained mRAG using data generated from Data-
Morgana and participated in the SIGIR 2025 LiveRAG competition.
Experimental results demonstrated that mRAG consistently outper-
forms standard vanilla RAG baselines. Additionally, mRAG achieved
a 7th place ranking based on automatic evaluation in the competi-
tion, highlighting its effectiveness in real-world settings.

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

REFERENCES
[1] Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023.
Self-RAG: Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Reflection.
arXiv:2310.11511 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.11511

[2] Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa Anke, and Steven Schockaert. 2024. RAGAs:
Automated Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation. In Proceedings of the
18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: System Demonstrations, Nikolaos Aletras and Orphee De Clercq (Eds.).
Association for Computational Linguistics, St. Julians, Malta, 150–158. https:
//aclanthology.org/2024.eacl-demo.16/

[3] Simone Filice, Guy Horowitz, David Carmel, Zohar Karnin, Liane Lewin-Eytan,
and Yoelle Maarek. 2025. Generating Diverse Q&A Benchmarks for RAG Evalu-
ation with DataMorgana. arXiv:2501.12789 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.
12789

[4] Kailash Gogineni, Yongsheng Mei, Karthikeya Gogineni, Peng Wei, Tian-Shing
Lan, and Guru Venkataramani. 2024. Characterizing and Optimizing the End-to-
End Performance of Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning Systems. 2024 IEEE
International Symposium on Workload Characterization (IISWC) (2024), 224–235.
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:272602792

[5] Kailash Gogineni, Peng Wei, Tian Lan, and Guru Venkataramani. 2023. Towards
Efficient Multi-Agent Learning Systems. arXiv:2305.13411 [cs.MA] https://arxiv.
org/abs/2305.13411

[6] Ari Holtzman, Jan Buys, Li Du, Maxwell Forbes, and Yejin Choi. 2020. The
Curious Case of Neural Text Degeneration. arXiv:1904.09751 [cs.CL] https:
//arxiv.org/abs/1904.09751

[7] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean
Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. 2022. LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of Large
Language Models. In International Conference on Learning Representations. https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=nZeVKeeFYf9

[8] Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Jinsung Yoon, Sercan Arik, Dong Wang,
Hamed Zamani, and Jiawei Han. 2025. Search-R1: Training LLMs to Reason and
Leverage Search Engines with Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:2503.09516 [cs.CL]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.09516

[9] To Eun Kim, Alireza Salemi, Andrew Drozdov, Fernando Diaz, and Hamed Za-
mani. 2024. Retrieval-Enhanced Machine Learning: Synthesis and Opportunities.
arXiv:2407.12982 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12982

[10] Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Opti-
mization. CoRR abs/1412.6980 (2014). https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
6628106

[11] Ronak Pradeep, Nandan Thakur, Shivani Upadhyay, Daniel Campos, Nick
Craswell, and Jimmy Lin. 2025. The Great Nugget Recall: Automating Fact Extrac-
tion and RAG Evaluation with Large Language Models. arXiv:2504.15068 [cs.IR]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.15068

[12] Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen
Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang,
Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang
Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue,
Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu Xia,
Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan,
Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. 2025. Qwen2.5 Technical
Report. arXiv:2412.15115 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115

[13] Alireza Salemi and Hamed Zamani. 2024. Evaluating Retrieval Quality in
Retrieval-Augmented Generation. In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM
SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (Wash-
ington DC, USA) (SIGIR ’24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York,
NY, USA, 2395–2400. https://doi.org/10.1145/3626772.3657957

[14] Alireza Salemi and Hamed Zamani. 2024.

Learning to Rank for Mul-
tiple Retrieval-Augmented Models through Iterative Utility Maximization.
arXiv:2410.09942 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09942

[15] Alireza Salemi and Hamed Zamani. 2024. Towards a Search Engine for Ma-
chines: Unified Ranking for Multiple Retrieval-Augmented Large Language
Models. In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Re-
search and Development in Information Retrieval (Washington DC, USA) (SI-
GIR ’24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 741–751.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3626772.3657733

[16] Avi Singh, John D. Co-Reyes, Rishabh Agarwal, Ankesh Anand, Piyush Patil,
Xavier Garcia, Peter J. Liu, James Harrison, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, Aaron Parisi,
Abhishek Kumar, Alex Alemi, Alex Rizkowsky, Azade Nova, Ben Adlam, Bernd
Bohnet, Gamaleldin Elsayed, Hanie Sedghi, Igor Mordatch, Isabelle Simpson,
Izzeddin Gur, Jasper Snoek, Jeffrey Pennington, Jiri Hron, Kathleen Kenealy,
Kevin Swersky, Kshiteej Mahajan, Laura Culp, Lechao Xiao, Maxwell L. Bileschi,
Noah Constant, Roman Novak, Rosanne Liu, Tris Warkentin, Yundi Qian, Yamini
Bansal, Ethan Dyer, Behnam Neyshabur, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, and Noah Fiedel.
2024. Beyond Human Data: Scaling Self-Training for Problem-Solving with
Language Models. arXiv:2312.06585 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06585

[17] Aditi Singh, Abul Ehtesham, Saket Kumar, and Tala Talaei Khoei. 2025.
Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation: A Survey on Agentic RAG.

arXiv:2501.09136 [cs.AI] https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09136

[18] Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V. Le. 2014. Sequence to sequence learning
with neural networks. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems - Volume 2 (Montreal, Canada) (NIPS’14). MIT
Press, Cambridge, MA, USA, 3104–3112.

[19] Falcon-LLM Team. 2024. The Falcon 3 Family of Open Models.

https:

//huggingface.co/blog/falcon3

[20] Hansi Zeng, Julian Killingback, and Hamed Zamani. 2025. Scaling Sparse and
Dense Retrieval in Decoder-Only LLMs. arXiv:2502.15526 [cs.IR] https://arxiv.
org/abs/2502.15526

A DETAILS OF CREATING DATA WITH

DATAMORGANA

This section provides verbatim definitions of all categorization
schemas and their corresponding probability distributions used
to control generation with DataMorgana. The following figures
present the individual category schemata used to structure prompt-
based question generation with DataMorgana:
• User Expertise: the definition of each subcategory and its proba-
bility of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in Figure 3.
• Question Type: the definition of each subcategory and its prob-
ability to generate data with DataMorgana are shown in Figure 4.
• Answer Type: the definition of each subcategory and its prob-
ability of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in Fig-
ure 10.

• Question Intent: the definition of each subcategory and its
probability of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in
Figure 7.

• Answer Intent: the definition of each subcategory and its proba-
bility of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in Figure 5.
• Premise Inclusion: the definition of each subcategory and its
probability of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in
Figure 6.

• Lexical Similarity: the definition of each subcategory and its
probability of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in
Figure 12.

• Aspect Granularity: the definition of each subcategory and its
probability of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in
Figure 8.

• Interaction Type: the definition of each subcategory and its
probability of generating data with DataMorgana are shown in
Figure 9.

• Document Granularity: the definition of each subcategory and
its probability of generating data with DataMorgana are shown
in Figure 11.

As noted before, we observed that jointly conditioning on all cat-
egories often led to incoherent or degraded outputs. To mitigate this,
we designed the following five compatible category combinations
for controlled generation:
(1) User Expertise, Question Type, Answer Type, Document Gran-
ularity, Interaction Type, Aspect Granularity, Answer Intent,
and Lexical Similarity.

(2) User Expertise, Question Type, Answer Type, Document Gran-
ularity, Interaction Type, Aspect Granularity, and Premise In-
clusion.

(3) User Expertise, Question Type, Answer Type, Document Gran-
ularity, Interaction Type, Aspect Granularity, and Question In-
tent.

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Figure 3: User expertise categorization schema and probabil-
ities.

(4) User Expertise, Question Type, Answer Type, Document Gran-
ularity, Interaction Type, Aspect Granularity, Premise Inclusion,
and Question Intent.

(5) User Expertise, Question Type, Answer Type, Document Gran-
ularity, Interaction Type, Aspect Granularity, Lexical Similarity,
and Premise Inclusion.

B BASELINES IMPLEMENTATIONS DETAILS
As baselines in this paper, we utilize two distinct models:
• No-Retrieval Baseline: We use the same generator as in mRAG,
namely the instruction-tuned Falcon model with 10B parameters3
[19], but without any retrieval. The model directly answers the
question using the prompt shown in Figure 13.

• Vanilla RAG: Again employing the instruction-tuned Falcon 10B
model [19], this baseline incorporates retrieval. Documents are
first retrieved using the same retrieval model and configuration
as mRAG, with the question itself as the query. The retrieved
documents are then passed along with the question to the LLM
to generate a response using the prompt shown in Figure 14.

where both baselines use nucleus sampling [6] with a temperature
of 0.1 for generation. For retrieval, we consistently retrieve two
documents, similar to mRAG.

C RETRIEVER IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Fineweb Corpus: To enable efficient indexing and document-level
retrieval, we preprocessed the original FineWeb corpus4 by split-
ting long documents into smaller overlapping chunks. Each chunk
was limited to 512 tokens with an 80-token overlap to preserve
local coherence. This chunking strategy expanded the dataset from
approximately 14 million original documents to nearly 29 million
indexed units. For consistency during inference and indexing, we
assigned sequential numerical IDs to these chunks (e.g., 1, 2, 3, ...),
and stored a mapping between these IDs and the original FineWeb
document identifiers for traceability.

3Available at: https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/Falcon3-10B-Instruct
4Available at: https://huggingface.co/datasets/HuggingFaceFW/fineweb/viewer/
sample-10BT

Figure 4: Question type categorization schema and probabili-
ties.

Retrieval Model: For our retrieval setup, we used a state-of-the-
art sparse retrieval model, Lion, from Hugging Face [20].5 This
1-billion-parameter model was used to index the documents and
retrieve results, following the prior methodology from our lab
[20]. This approach achieved state-of-the-art performance on the
MS MARCO dataset and demonstrated comparable results on the
FineWeb dataset.

Indexing: During indexing, we encoded each document chunk into
a sparse vector of dimension 128k (corresponding to the model’s

5https://huggingface.co/hzeng/Lion-SP-1B-llama3-marco-mntp

user_expertise = { "categorization_name": "user-expertise", "categories": [ { "name": "expert", "description": "an expert on the subject discussed in the documents, therefore he asks complex questions.", "probability": 0.50 }, { "name": "novice", "description": "a person with very basic knowledge on the topic discussed in the topic. Therefore, he asks very simple questions.", "probability": 0.50 } ]}question_phrasing_categorization = { "categorization_name": "question-phrasing-type", "categories": [ { "name": "concise and natural", "description": "You should generate a concise, direct, and naturally phrased question consisting of a few words.", "probability": 0.35 }, { "name": "verbose and natural", "description": "You should generate a relatively long question consisting of more than 9 words, written in fluent, natural-sounding language.", "probability": 0.35 }, { "name": "short search query", "description": "You should generate a short query consists of less than 7 words phrased as a typed web query for search engines only keywords, without punctuation and without a natural-sounding structure.", "probability": 0.1 }, { "name": "long search query", "description": "You should generate a long query consists of more than 7 words phrased as a typed web query for search engines only keywords, without punctuation and without a natural-sounding structure.", "probability": 0.1 }, { "name": "concise and fancy", "description": "You should generate a short, well-structured question expressed in a stylistically rich or sophisticated manner.", "probability": 0.05 }, { "name": "verbose and fancy", "description": "You should generate a long and elaborate question phrased with refined, elevated, or formal language, often using complex sentence structures.", "probability": 0.05 } ]}CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Figure 5: Answer Intent categorization schema and probabil-
ities.

Figure 7: Question Intent categorization schema and proba-
bilities.

Figure 6: Premise Inclusion categorization schema and prob-
abilities.

vocabulary size), retaining only non-zero token-weight pairs. These
representations were stored in an inverted index on disk. The re-
sulting index occupies approximately 571 GB of storage.

Retrieval setup: At inference time, incoming queries were tok-
enized and encoded into sparse query vectors using the same model
and projection head. Retrieval was performed via CPU-side sparse
dot-product computation between the query vector and the inverted
index, accelerated using Numba6 for multi-threaded execution. We

6Available at: https://github.com/numba/numba

Figure 8: Aspect Granularity categorization schema and prob-
abilities.

used a top-𝑘 retrieval strategy with 𝑘 = 2 by default, and applied a
threshold of 0.0 to filter low-scoring documents. The entire retrieval

factuality_categorisation = { "categorization_name": "factuality", "categories": [ { "name": "factoid", "description": "A question seeking a specific, concise piece of information or a short fact about a particular subject, such as a name, date, or number.", "probability": 0.50 }, { "name": "open-ended", "description": ("question inviting detailed or exploratory responses, encouraging discussion or elaboration." "e.g., ?what caused the French revolution?"), "probability": 0.50 } ]}premise_categorization = { "categorization_name": "premise-categorization", "categories": [ { "name": "without premise", "description": "a question that does not contain any premise or any information about the user.", "probability": 0.70 }, { "name": "with premise", "description": "a question starting with a very short premise, where the users reveal their needs or some information about themselves.", "probability": 0.30 } ]}question_intent_categorization = { "categorization_name": "question-intent-type", "categories": [ { "name": "clarification", "description": "A question seeking further explanation or details about a specific concept, term, or methodology", "probability": 0.20, }, { "name": "opinion", "description": "A question asking for a subjective viewpoint.", "probability": 0.20, }, { "name": "comparison", "description": "A question that compares the information in the document to other studies, perspectives, or contexts.", "probability": 0.20, }, { "name": "yes_no_question", "description": "A question expecting a yes or no answer", "probability": 0.20, }, { "name":"hypothetical", "description": "A question imagining a what-if scenario, asking about potential futures, counterfactual histories, or theoretical cases. Use this category only when the document includes reflective or interpretive content such as commentary on history, society, science, technology, philosophy, or human behavior. Ex: What if climate data from the 1800s had been digitized?", "probability":0.20, } ]}question_aspect_categorisation = { "categorization_name": "aspect-type", "categories": [ { "name": "single-aspect", "description": "A question focused on one specific aspect or dimension of a concept or entity (e.g., What are the benefits of using AI in diagnostics?).", "probability": 0.50 }, { "name": "multi-aspect", "description": "A question about two different aspects of the same entity/concept (e.g., What are the advantages of AI-powered diagnostics, and what are the associated risks of bias in medical decision-making?).", "probability": 0.50 }SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Figure 9: Interaction type categorization schema and proba-
bilities.

Figure 11: Document Granularity categorization schema and
probabilities.

Figure 10: Answer type categorization schema and probabili-
ties.

Figure 12: Lexical Similarity categorization schema and prob-
abilities.

question_turn_categorisation = { "categorization_name": "question-turn", "categories": [ { "name": "single-turn", "description": "The initial question of a conversation, self-contained and understandable without any prior context.", "probability": 0.50, }, { "name": "two-turn", "description": "A follow-up or compound question that either builds on previous context or combines two sub-questions on related or evolving concepts.", "probability": 0.50, } ]}answer_type = { "categorization_name": "answer-phrasing-type", "categories": [ { "name": "concise and natural", "description": "Expects a brief, direct answer, typically a short phrase or sentence using everyday, accessible language.", "probability":0.4 }, { "name": "verbose and natural", "description": "Expects a detailed yet conversational response, typically one or more full sentences.", "probability":0.4 }, { "name": "concise and fancy", "description": "Expects a brief answer, typically one sentence or phrase, but expressed in an elevated, stylistically rich, or formal tone.", "probability":0.1 }, { "name": "verbose and fancy", "description": "Expects a longer and more elaborate answer, delivered in a refined, ornate, or sophisticated style, often using complex sentence structures and rich vocabulary.", "probability":0.1 } ]}multi_doc_categorization = { "categorization_name": "number-of-documents", "categories": [ { "name": "multi-doc", "description": ( " The information required to answer the question needs to come from two documents, specifically, " "the first document must provide information about the first entity/concept, while the second must " "provide information about the second entity/concept."), "probability": 0.5, "is_multi_doc": True }, { "name": "single-doc", "description": ( " The information required to answer the question can be found in a single document, " "which contains all the necessary information about the entity/concept."), "probability": 0.5, "is_multi_doc": False } ]}document_type_categorization = { "categorization_name": "linguistic-variation-type", "categories": [ { "name": "similar-to-document", "description": "phrased using the same terminology and phrases appearing in the document (e.g., for the document 'The Amazon River has an average discharge of about 215,000?230,000 m3/s', 'what is the average discharge of the Amazon river')", "probability": 0.3 }, { "name": "distant-from-document", "description": "phrased using terms completely different from the ones appearing in the document (e.g., for a document 'The Amazon River has an average discharge of about 215,000?230,000 m3/s', 'How much water run through the Amazon?')", "probability": 0.4 }, { "name": "unpopular-entities", "description": "a question focusing on rare, less-documented, or emerging entities not widely mentioned in the fineweb corpora.", "probability": 0.3 } ] }CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Figure 13: Prompt used with the Non-RAG baseline.

Figure 14: Prompt used with the RAG baseline that uses re-
trieve and read paradigm.

stack was exposed through a FastAPI7 service that supports both
single and batched queries.

D MRAG’S IMPLEMENTATIONS DETAILS
D.1 Prompts and Algorithms
This section outlines the implementation details of the agents that
collectively constitute mRAG. Each agent is instantiated with a
specific role and is prompted accordingly using either the Qwen 2.5
model with 7B parameters8 [12] or, in the case of response genera-
tion and revision, the Falcon 3 model with 10B parameters [19]. The
coordinator agent, whose prompt and logic are detailed in Figure 15
and Algorithm 1, manages the overall workflow by dispatching
tasks to other agents based on context and agent specialization.
It iteratively processes agent outputs, updating the conversation
history and deciding when to terminate with a final answer. The
planner (Figure 17) generates a high-level sequence of reasoning

steps, while the searcher (Figure 16, Algorithm 2) retrieves relevant
documents using the Lion retrieval model [20] and dynamically
adapts its search strategy. To support scalability and maintain co-
herence, the summarizer agent (Figure 18) compresses accumulated
content, aiding the coordinator in maintaining context. When in-
depth analytical reasoning is required, the reasoner (Figure 19) is
invoked to process information on a specific aspect. The validator
(Figure 20) ensures that the generated response meets all question-
specific criteria by analyzing alignment between the question and
the output. Finally, the generator/reviser agent (Figure 21), pow-
ered by Falcon 3 [19], produces and, if needed, refines the response
to ensure completeness and coherence. Together, the agents oper-
ate in a tightly orchestrated loop, with their individual behaviors
formalized in corresponding figures and algorithms.

D.2 Training Setup
To train the model, we first sample 𝑇 = 8 diverse trajectories for
each input in the training set. For all agents except the response gen-
erator/reviser, we use a temperature of 0.7 using nucleus sampling
to encourage exploration and promote trajectory diversity. The re-
sponse generator/reviser agent is sampled using nucleus sampling
[6] with a temperature of 0.1, as it is not trainable due to com-
petition constraints. The lower temperature reduces randomness,
leading to more deterministic outputs, which allows the trainable
agents to better adapt to the fixed behavior of the generator/reviser.
To train the agents, we use a single LoRA [7] adaptor shared
across all trainable agents, rather than a separate adaptor for each
agent. This adaptor has a rank of 𝑟 = 16 and is used to optimize all
linear layers in the instruction-tuned Qwen 2.5 with 7B parameters
LLM [12]. We use Unsloth9 for efficient and accelerated training.
The Adam optimizer [10] is employed with a learning rate of 10−4.
Gradient clipping with a maximum norm of 1 is applied. Training
proceeds for up to 5,000 steps, including a 50-step warmup phase
following a linear learning rate schedule. Models are evaluated
every 500 steps on the test set, and the checkpoint with the best
performance is selected. The combined maximum input and output
length is set to 16,000 tokens. The batch size for all experiments is
128. All training is conducted on a single NVIDIA A100 GPU.

D.3 Reward Models
The competition does not provide an official scoring function, so
we define and implement two complementary reward signals—
correctness and faithfulness—based on the provided evaluation
guidelines. correctness is assessed using a recall-oriented nugget-
based reward following Pradeep et al. [11], wherein atomic aspects
are first extracted from the ground truth (Figure 22) and then aligned
with the generated response using a scoring prompt (Figure 23).
These scores, normalized to [0, 1], are averaged to produce the
final correctness reward, with the full implementation provided in
Algorithm 3. Faithfulness follows the methodology of Es et al. [2],
involving the extraction of atomic claims (Figure 24) and verifying
their support against the retrieved documents (Figure 25), with final
scores computed as the average normalized score (Algorithm 4). To
reduce variance and ensure stable reward modeling and estimation,
each reward model is executed five times with a temperature of 0.5

7Available at: https://github.com/fastapi
8Available at: https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct

9Available at: https://github.com/unslothai/unsloth

You are a helpful assistant. You will be given a question andyou need to answer it.# question: {QUERY}Non-RAG BaselinePromptYou are a helpful assistant. You will be given a question anda set of supporting documents. You can use the documentsto answer the question accurately. You should generate aresponse that is relevant to the question and supported bythe documents. # input: - "question": the question you need to answer- "supporting documents": a list of documents thatcan be used to answer the question.# output: You should generate a valid JSON object enclosedin the ```json ``` block. The JSON object should contain thefollowing fields:- "response": the answer to the question. Theanswer should be relevant to the question andsupported by the documents.# question: {QUERY}# documents: Document 1: [DOC_1]...Document K: [DOC_K]RAG Baseline PromptSIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Figure 15: Prompt used for the Coordinator agent in the mRAG framework.

You are a highly capable agent, and your goal is to generate a response to the given question. This is a multi-turn task and you don't have to do it in a single turn. You have access to a set of capableagents, each with a specific skill, and you can choose the most suitable agent for each turn to help you in generating the response. In each turn, you should select the most suitable agent from a providedlist of agents to help you generate the response. The agents can help you in different aspects such as validating the response, searching for information, analyzing the information, and summarizing theinformation. Your goal is to generate a response that is informative and relevant to the question. You can use the agents to help you in different aspects of generating the response. You can also use theagents multiple times to generate the response. You can also use the agents in any order you like. To choose an agent, you need to provide the a valid json object in ```json ``` block that contains thefollowing fields:- "agent": the name of the agent you want to choose. - "input": the input you want to provide to the agent. This should be a valid json object that contains the required fields for the chosen agent.- "reason": a brief explanation of why you chose the agent for the given input.In response, the agent will provide you with the output in the specified format for the chosen agent. The list of agents and their input and output formats are provided below:# Agents:## validator: This agents can help you verify if the generated response meets the criteria for the given question. ### input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": the information the you has gathered so far and want to share with the agent. This can be a summary or highlights of the information you have gathered so far and does not need tobe the full information. This can be empty if you have not gathered any information yet.- "response": the response generated to the question.### output:- "extracted_criteria": a list of criteria that are extracted from only the user's question (e.g., being detailed, concise, short, long, etc.), containing the following fields:- "criteria": the criteria extracted from the user's question.- "criteria_explanation": an explanation of why extracted this criteria.- "is_response_valid": a boolean value indicating whether the response is valid according to the extracted criteria.- "is_response_valid_feedback": feedback on whether the response is valid according to the extracted criteria and how it can be improved.- "is_groundedly_supported": a boolean value indicating whether the all parts of the response is grounded with supporting information.- "is_groundedly_supported_feedback": feedback on whether the response is grounded with supporting information and how it can be improved.- "is_correctly_answered": a boolean value indicating whether the response is correct.- "is_correctly_answered_feedback": feedback on whether the response is correct and how it can be improved.## summarizer: This agent can help you summarize the information you have gathered so far.### input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": the information you have gathered so far and want to summarize. This can be empty if you have not gathered any information yet.### output:- "summary": the summary of the information that the agent has generated.## planner: This agent can help you plan a strategy to generate the response to the given question. It is suggested to use this agent at the beginning of the task to plan the strategy. You can also use thisagent multiple times in any time during the task to plan the strategy.### input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": the information you have gathered so far and want to share with the agent. This can be a summary or highlights of the information you have gathered so far and does not need to bethe full information. This can be empty if you have not gathered any information yet.### output:- "plan": the plan that the agent has generated to generate the response to the given question.## reasoner: This agent can help you reason about the information you have gathered so far about specific aspects of the question. You can use this agent to reason about the information you havegathered if you need help with reasoning about the information.### input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": the information you have gathered so far and want to reason about. This can be a summary or highlights of the information you have gathered so far and does not need to be the fullinformation. This can be empty if you have not gathered any information yet.- "aspect": the aspect of the question you want to reason about.### output:- "analysis": the reasoning about the information that the agent has generated.## answerer: This agent can help you generate the response to the given question. You can use this agent to generate the response to the question. You can use this agent multiple times in any time duringthe task to generate the response.### input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "guidance": a guidance on how should the agent structure its response and what to include in this response. This should help the agent to generate a better response based on the information youhave gathered so far, but it should not be the answer itself.- "important_information": a string that outlines the most important information that should be included in the response.### output:- "response": the response that the agent has generated to the given question.## reviser: This agent can help you revise the response generated by the answerer agent. You can use this agent to revise the response generated by the answerer agent if you need help with revising theresponse. Note that you cannot use this agent before answerer agent.### input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "suggestion": a string that outlines the suggested revisions to the response.### output:- "response": the revised response that the agent has generated.## searcher: This agent can help you search for information that can help you answer the given question. You can use this agent to search for information that can help you answer the question. You canuse this agent multiple times in any time during the task to search for information.### input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": the information you have gathered so far and want to share with the agent. This can be a summary or highlights of the information you have gathered so far and does not need to bethe full information. This can be empty if you have not gathered any information yet.- "suggestions": a set of suggestions about what aspect to search for.### output:- "found_information": a boolean value indicating whether the search found relevant information.- "documents": a list of documents that the agent has found that are relevant to the search query.## finisher: You can end the task by using this agent. By selecting this agent, you indicate that you have finished the task and the latest response generated by the answerer or reviser agent is the finalresponse to the question.### input:- "finished": a boolean value indicating that you have finished the task.### output: the agent will not provide any output.### Note: You should only provide this input to the agent in the given format and you don't need to provide the response to the agent. # question: {QUESTION}To choose an agent, you need to provide the a valid json object in ```json ``` block that contains the following fields:- "agent": the name of the agent you want to choose. - "input": the input you want to provide to the agent. This should be a valid json object that contains the required fields for the chosen agent.- "reason": a brief explanation of why you chose the agent for the given input.In response, the agent will provide you with the output in the specified format for the chosen agent. In selecting an agent, you should select the agent that you think is the most appropriate to take next.Using the same agent multiple times is allowed if you think it is necessary, but might not be useful always. In response, the agent will provide you with the necessary information to continue theconversation.Coordinator AgentPromptCIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Figure 16: Prompt used for the Searcher agent in the mRAG framework.

You are a helpful and capable agent who's task is to help find information that can help the user answer the given question. The user providesyou with a question and some information and suggestions about what aspect to search for. Your goal is to help the user find information thatcan help them answer the question. This is a multi-turn action. In this action, first, you need to provide a search query that will help you findrelevant information to accurately answer the question. Note that search does not provide a direct answer to the question and should be usedto gather useful information. In response, the user will provide you with information about the search results. Then, in the second turn, youneed to analyze the provided information to verify the accuracy and relevance of the information. In response, the user will provide you withconfirmation about the accuracy and relevance of the information. This continues until you no longer need more information and the providedinformation is sufficient and useful.# Step 1: ## your input: The user provides you with the following information:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": a summary of the information the user has gathered so far. This can be empty if the user has not gathered anyinformation yet.- "suggestions": a set of suggestions about what aspect to search for.## your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the following fields:- "search_query": the search query you suggest to find information that can help in answering the user's question.- "search_query_explanation": an explanation of why you suggest this search query. # Step 2:## your input: The user provides you with the search results.- "search_results": the search results using the query that you suggested.## your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the following fields:- "query_id": the query ID of the search result.- "relevance": a valid json list that each object in the list contains the following fields:- "doc_id": The document ID of the search result that you want to verify.- "is_relevant": a boolean value indicating whether the document is relevant to the query and contains useful information forcollecting the information that can help answer the question.- "is_relevant_explanation": an explanation of why the document is relevant or not relevant.- "change_search_query": a boolean value indicating whether you think we need to change the search query to find relevant informationthat can help answer the question. This is helpful when after multiple retrieval results from the same query is given to you and youcouldn't find the relevant information. By setting this to true, you suggest a new search query to find relevant information. If you need touse the same query again, you can set this to false.- "change_search_query_explanation": an explanation of why you need to change the search query.- "new_search_query": the new search query you suggest to find relevant information that can help answer the question. This is onlyneeded if you set "change_search_query" to true. Otherwise, you can leave this field empty.- "end_search": a boolean that show that you are satisfied with the search results and you don't need to search anymore. This is helpfulwhen you think you have found enough information and you don't need to search anymore. By setting this to true, you suggest to endthe search. If you need to continue searching, you can set this to false. This should be false if you set "change_search_query" to true.- "end_search_explanation": an explanation of why you need to end the search.This is a multi-turn action. You will continue to provide search queries and analyze the search results until you no longer need more informationand the provided information is sufficient and useful. Your output should be a valid JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the fieldsmentioned above.# question: {QUESTION}"# information: {INFORMATION}# suggestions: {SUGGESTIONS}Searcher AgentPromptTemplate for search resultsThis is the information resulted from your search query:Query ID: {QUERY_ID}Document 1 ID: {ID_1}Document 1 text: {DOC_1}Document 2 ID: {ID_2}Document 2 text: {DOC_2}Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verfication. Note you should strictly follow the given format and donot add any extra explanation or information to your output.SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Figure 17: Prompt used for the Planner agent in the mRAG framework.

Figure 18: Prompt used for the Summarizer agent in the mRAG framework.

sampled using Nucleus Sampling [6], and the scores are averaged.
Empirically, we observe that mRAG underperforms on the correct-
ness dimension. To prioritize improvement in this area, we apply a
weighting scheme in the final reward computation: a weight of 4 is

assigned to correctness, while faithfulness receives a weight of 1.
The final reward is then computed as the weighted average of the
two normalized scores, effectively emphasizing correctness in the
optimization process to improve it more. We use instruction-tuned

You are a helpful and capable agent who's task is to help the user generate a plan on how to answerthe given question. The user provides you with a question and some information. Your goal is to helpthe user generate a good plan about the steps to take to answer the question. You should provide aplan that result in a correct and grounded with supporting information response. # Your input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": a summary of the information the user has gathered so far. This can be emptyif the user has not gathered any information yet.# Your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the followingfields:- "plan": the plan to answer the question. Your plan should be a set of steps that the usershould take to generate a response that is correct and grounded with supporting information. Your output should be a valid JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the fields mentionedabove.# question: {QUESTION}# information: {INFORMATION}Planner AgentPromptYou are a helpful and capable agent who's task is to help the user summarize the given information.The user provides you with some information and a question. Your goal is to help the user generate asummary of the information in a way that can help the user to answer the question. Your summaryshould be concise, informative, and relevant to the question.# Your input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": a summary of the information the user has gathered so far. This can be emptyif the user has not gathered any information yet.# Your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the followingfields:- "summary": the summary of the information. Your summary should be concise, informative,and relevant to the question.Your output should be a valid JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the fields mentionedabove.# question: {QUESTION}# information: {INFORMATION}Summarizer AgentPromptCIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Figure 19: Prompt used for the Reasoner agent in the mRAG framework.

Algorithm 1 Implementation of the Coordinator agent in the mRAG framework.
Input: question 𝑞, agents list 𝐴, LLM 𝜋
Output: response to the question 𝑟 , supporting documents 𝑆

1: 𝑖 = 0
2: 𝑓 𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠ℎ = 𝐹𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒
3: 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠 = []
4: 𝑆 = {}
5: 𝑟 = ””
6: while 𝑖 < MAX_STEPS and 𝑓 𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠ℎ = 𝐹𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒 do
7:

𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑛𝑎𝑚𝑒, 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠 = 𝜋 (𝑞, 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠, 𝑆)
if 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑛𝑎𝑚𝑒 = 𝐹𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠ℎ then

Break

⊲ Counter of number of steps/calls to agents
⊲ Initializing variables for when to end process
⊲ Initializing variables for saving the state of agents
⊲ Initializing variables for collecting supporting documents
⊲ Initializing variables for final response
⊲ As long as the agent wants to continue and has budget
⊲ Selecting the next agent to be called and with what inputs
⊲ If coordinator chooses to finish response generation
⊲ End response generation

end if
𝑎 = select_agent(𝐴, 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑛𝑎𝑚𝑒)
𝑠𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡 = 𝑎(𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠)
𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠 = 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠 + [𝑠𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡]

⊲ Select the agent from agents list
⊲ Call the agent with the given input parameters generated by coordinator
⊲ Updating the state of the coordinator with the agent’s output by

appending
𝑖 = 𝑖 + 1
⊲ Updating the step
if 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑛𝑎𝑚𝑒 = 𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟 or 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑛𝑎𝑚𝑒 = 𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑖𝑠𝑒𝑟 then ⊲ If the selected agent generates a new response i.e., generator or reviser
⊲ Replace the response with the new response

𝑟 = 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠

end if
if 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑛𝑎𝑚𝑒 = 𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑟 then
𝑆 = 𝑆 ∪ 𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠_𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠

⊲ If the selected agent collects supporting information i.e., searcher agent
⊲ Add the new supporting information to all supporting information

20:
end if
21: end while
22: return 𝑟 , 𝑆

⊲ Returning the response and supporting documents

8:

9:

10:

11:

12:

13:

14:

15:

16:

17:

18:

19:

You are a helpful and capable agent who's task is to help the user analyze the given information fromthe given aspect aspect by the user to help them answer the given question. In reasoning, you shouldprovide a logical, coherent, and step by step analysis of the information in the requested aspect in away to be helpful for answering the question. Your goal is to help the user understand the informationfrom the given aspect. You should not answer the question but your analysis should be helpful for theuser to answer the question.# Your input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": a summary of the information the user has gathered so far. This can be emptyif the user has not gathered any information yet.- "aspect": the aspect the user wants to analyze the information from.# Your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the followingfields:- "analysis": a list of strings that containing step by step analysis of the information from thegiven aspect, where each string is a step in this analysis. Your analysis should be a logical,coherent, and step by step analysis of the information in the requested aspect.Your output should be a valid JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the fields mentionedabove.# question: {QUESTION}# information: {INFORMATION}# aspect: {ASPECT}Reasoner AgentPromptSIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Figure 20: Prompt used for the Validator agent in the mRAG framework.

Qwen 2.5 with 14 billion parameters10 [12] as the backbone LLM
for all the reward functions.

D.4 Inference Setup
For inference with LLMs, we utilize vLLM library11 to serve the
language models. A temperature of 0.1 with nucleus sampling is
used for generation. The maximum combined input-output token
length per agent is set to 32,000 tokens. The coordinator agent
has a budget of up to 30 calls to other agents. The searcher agent
can reuse the same query up to 5 times, with no additional budget
constraints. Details of the retrieval model setup are provided in
Appendix C.

10Available at: https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct
11Available at: https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm

E CASE STUDIES
The proposed multi-agent system demonstrates notable and impres-
sive behaviors, particularly in the decision-making processes of the
coordinator and searcher agents, which are tasked with more com-
plex responsibilities compared to others. To explore these behaviors
in greater depth, we examine two representative case studies.

Multi-aspect questions. In cases where the input question en-
compasses multiple dimensions and necessitates the collection of
information across diverse aspects, the system must effectively re-
trieve and integrate information from these various dimensions to
produce a coherent and high-quality response. One example of such
a query is “safety concerns in hydrogen steam reforming,” which
requires the system to identify and synthesize information across

You are a helpful and capable agent who's task is to validate the response generated by the user tothe given question according to a set of criteria. The user provides you with a question and aresponse. You also can extract some criteria from the user's question if mentioned any. Your goal is tovalidate the response according to the given and extracted criteria and provide feedback to the user.Your feedback should be constructive, informative, and helpful for the user to improve the response.# Your input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "information": the information the user has gathered so far. This can be empty if the user hasnot gathered any information yet.- "response": the response generated by the user.# Your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the followingfields:- "extracted_criteria": a list of criteria that you extracted from only the user's question (e.g.,being detailed, concise, short, long, etc.). It can be empty if you didn't extract any criteria. Itshould be a valid JSON list with each object in the list contains the following fields:- "criteria": the criteria you extracted from the user's question.- "criteria_explanation": an explanation of why you extracted this criteria.- "is_response_valid": a boolean value indicating whether the response is validaccording to the extracted criteria.- "is_response_valid_feedback": feedback on whether the response is valid accordingto the extracted criteria and how it can be improved.- "is_groundedly_supported": a boolean value indicating whether the all parts of the responseis grounded with supporting information.- "is_groundedly_supported_feedback": feedback on whether the response is grounded withsupporting information and how it can be improved.- "is_correctly_answered": a boolean value indicating whether the response is correct.- "is_correctly_answered_feedback": feedback on whether the response is correct and how itcan be improved.Your output should be a valid JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the fields mentionedabove.# question: {QUESTION}# information: {INFORMATION}# response: {RESPONSE}Validator AgentPromptCIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Figure 21: Prompt used for the Generator/Reviser agent in the mRAG framework.

multiple safety-related aspects of the process. The full interaction
between agents in response to this question is presented in Table 2.
To address this question, the coordinator—serving as the entry
point to the system—first invokes the planner agent to decompose
the problem into a sequence of actionable steps. The planner breaks

the task down into identifying the key components of hydrogen
steam reforming, gathering information on each component, search-
ing for associated safety hazards, and synthesizing the collected
information into a coherent response. Subsequently, the coordi-
nator directs the searcher agent, providing suggestions to guide

You are a helpful and capable agent, and your goal is to help the user generate a response to thegiven question. The user provide you with a question, some information, and a plan. Your goal is tohelp the user generate a response that is correct and grounded with supporting information. Youshould not provide any new information that is not grounded with the information provided by theuser. Also, you should not provide any information that is not directly related to the question andunnecessary.# Your input:- "question": the question the user wants to answer.- "supporting information": the information the user has gathered so far.- "plan": the plan the user has made to answer the question.- "important information": the most important information that should be included in theresponse.# Your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the followingfields:- "response": the response to the question using the plan and information provided. Yourresponse should be correct, and grounded with supporting information.# question: {QUESTION}# supporting information: {SUPPORTING_INFORMATION}# plan: {PLAN}# important information: {IMPORTANT_INFORMATION}You should strirctly follow the instructions below to generate a response to the question in a validJSON format without any additional text or explanation.Generator AgentPromptReviser AgentPromptThanks for your response. Here are some suggestions to revise your response to make it moreaccurate and grounded with supporting information. Please revise your response accordingly andprovide the revised response.# Your input:- "suggestion": the suggested revisions to your response.# Your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the followingfields:- "response": the revised response to the question. Your response should be correct andgrounded with supporting information.# suggestion: {SUGGESTION}You should strirctly follow the instructions below to generate a response to the question in a validJSON format without any additional text or explanation.SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Figure 22: Prompt used for extracting atomic aspects from the expected output for recall-oriented nugget correctness reward
model.

Figure 23: Prompt used for matching atomic aspects between the expected output and generated response for recall-oriented
nugget correctness reward model.

You are an impartial judge who has been asked to evaluate how the generated output answers the question. Yourtask is to given an expected output for a given question, extract all atomic pieces of information from the expectedoutput. These atomic pieces of information are the smallest units of information that discuss a single unique aspectof the answer to the question.# Your input:- "question": The question that was asked- "expected_output": The expected output.# your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the following fields:- "expected_output_aspects": a list of atomic pieces of information extracted from the expected output.Each atomic piece of information is a json object with the following fields:- "aspect": the atomic piece of information extracted from the expected output.- "explanation": a brief explanation of why this atomic piece of information is important or relevant tothe question.- "evidence": the evidence from the expected output that supports this atomic piece of information.# question: {QUESTION}# expected_output: {EXPECTED_OUTPUT}Your output should be a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` block in the given format.Extracting Aspectsfor Coverage Reward You are an impartial judge who has been asked to evaluate how the generated output answers the question. Youwill be given a question, the expected output, a generated output, and a single aspect that you need to evaluate ifthe generated output contains the same information about from that aspect point of view. Your task is to comparethe generated output and the expected output based on the given aspect. You need to provide a score between -1and 2 that indicates the degree of match between the two outputs from the aspect point of view, using the followingcriteria:# scoring criteria:2: Correct and relevant (no irrelevant information).1: Correct but contains irrelevant information.0: No answer provided (abstention).-1: Incorrect answer.# Your input:- "question": The question that was asked- "expected_output": The expected output.- "generated_output": The generated output.- "aspect": The aspect that you need to evaluate the generated output based on it, containing the followingfields:- "aspect": the atomic piece of information extracted from the expected output.- "explanation": a brief explanation of why this atomic piece of information is important or relevant tothe question.- "evidence": the evidence from the expected output that supports this atomic piece of information.# your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the following fields:- "score": an int indicating the score you assign to the generated output based on the given aspect.- "rationale": a str indicating the rationale behind your score.# question: {QUESTION}# expected_output: {EXPECTED_OUTPUT}# generated_output: {GENERATED_OUTPUT}# aspect: {ASPECT}Your output should be a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` block in the given format.Matching Aspectsfor Coverage Reward CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Figure 24: Prompt used for extracting atomic aspects from the generated output for faithfulness reward.

Figure 25: Prompt used for matching aspects between the generated output and retrieved documents for faithfulness reward.

You are an impartial judge who has been asked to evaluate how the generated output is faithful to the supportingdocuments provided. Your task is to given a generated output for a given question, extract all atomic pieces ofinformation from the generated output. These atomic pieces of information are the smallest units of information thatdiscuss a single unique aspect of the answer to the question.# Your input:- "question": The question that was asked- "answer": The generated answer.# your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the following fields:- "answer_aspects": a list of atomic pieces of information extracted from the generated output. Each atomicpiece of information is a json object with the following fields:- "id": the id of the atomic piece of information.- "aspect": the atomic piece of information extracted from the generated output.- "explanation": a brief explanation of why this atomic piece of information is important or relevant tothe question.- "evidence": the evidence from the generated output that supports this atomic piece of information.# question: {QUESTION}# answer: {ANSWER}Extracting Aspectsfor Faithfulness Reward You are an impartial judge who has been asked to evaluate how well the generated answer is grounded in thesupporting knowledge provided based on the given criteria. You will be given a list of atomic aspects from thegenerated output and a list of supporting documents. Your task is to go through each extracted atomic aspect andcheck if its evidence from the generated output is grounded in the supporting documents. You need to provide ascore between -1 and 1 that indicates the degree of match between the two outputs from the aspect point of view,using the following criteria:1: Full support. All answer parts are grounded in the supporting documents.0: Partial support. Not all answer parts are grounded in the supporting documents.-1: No support. All answer parts are not grounded in the supporting documents.# Your input:- "question": The question that was asked- "answer_aspects": a list of atomic pieces of information extracted from the generated output. Each atomicpiece of information is a json object with the following fields:- "id": the id of the atomic piece of information.- "aspect": the atomic piece of information extracted from the generated output.- "explanation": a brief explanation of why this atomic piece of information is important or relevant tothe question.- "evidence": the evidence from the generated output that supports this atomic piece of information.- "context": The a list of supporting documents that you should check the answer based on.# your output: you need to provide a JSON object enclosed in ```json ``` that contains the following fields:- "scores_list": a list of scores for each atomic aspect, indicating the score you assign to the generatedanswer based on the given criteria. Each object in the list should be a valid json object that contain thefollowing fields:- "id": the id of the atomic piece of information.- "score": an int indicating the score you assign to the generated answer based on the given criteria.- "rationale": a str indicating the rationale behind your score.# question: {QUESTION}# answer_aspects: {ASPECT}# context: {CONTEXT}Matching Aspectsfor Faithfulness Reward SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Algorithm 2 Implementation of the Searcher agent in the mRAG framework.
Input: question 𝑞, context information 𝑐, suggested search aspects 𝑎, retrieval model 𝑅, LLM 𝜋
Output: relevant retrieved documents set 𝑆

⊲ Initializing the relevant documents set
⊲ Counter of number of retrieval steps

⊲ retrieve two docs for query. If this query is issued before, return next 2 docs for query.
⊲ For each document in the retrieved document for the query
⊲ If document is relevant to the query
⊲ Add the document to the relevant documents set

1: 𝑆 = {}
2: 𝑖 = 0
3: 𝑒𝑛𝑑_𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ = 𝐹𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒
4: 𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦 = 𝜋 (𝑞, 𝑐, 𝑎)
5: while 𝑖 < MAX_STEPS and 𝑒𝑛𝑑_𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ = 𝐹𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒 do
6:

𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑠_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑑𝑜𝑐𝑠 = 𝑅(𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦, 2)
for 𝑑 ∈ 𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑠_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑑𝑜𝑐𝑠 do

if 𝜋 (𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦, 𝑑) = relevant then

𝑆 = 𝑆 ∪ {𝑑 }

end if

end for
𝑖 = 𝑖 + 1
𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒_𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦 = 𝜋 (𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦, 𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑠_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑑𝑜𝑐𝑠, 𝑆)
𝑒𝑛𝑑_𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ = 𝜋 (𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦, 𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑠_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑑𝑜𝑐𝑠, 𝑆)
if 𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒_𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦 = 𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑒 then

𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦 = 𝜋 (𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑟𝑦, 𝑡ℎ𝑖𝑠_𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝_𝑑𝑜𝑐𝑠, 𝑆)

7:

8:

9:

10:

11:

12:

13:

14:

15:

16:

17:
end if
18: end while
19: return 𝑆

the retrieval of information related to the specified aspects. The
searcher then performs targeted queries and returns relevant in-
formation accordingly. After analyzing the safety aspects of the
process using the reasoner agent, the coordinator instructs the
searcher to gather information about real-world historical safety
incidents related to hydrogen steam reforming. The searcher em-
ploys the retrieval model to obtain relevant documents and returns
the collected data to the coordinator. Given the volume of retrieved
information, the coordinator then invokes the summarizer agent
to condense the content into a coherent form. Subsequently, the
coordinator calls the generator agent, providing the aggregated
evidence and instructing it to generate a comprehensive response.
The generator is specifically guided to include a detailed overview
of the key components involved in hydrogen steam reforming, the
associated safety hazards for each component, documented histori-
cal incidents, and current safety guidelines and regulations. Once
the response is generated, the coordinator consults the validator
agent to verify whether the response meets the defined criteria. The
validator emphasizes the importance of completeness and depth,
particularly due to the safety-critical nature of the query. After
confirming that all criteria are satisfied, the coordinator ends the
process and returns the response.

Retrieving more information to make sure enough infor-
mation is collected. In addition to cases that require integrating
multiple aspects, some queries present challenges in retrieving rele-
vant information even for a single aspect, often due to limitations in
the retrieval model. In such situations, a robust RAG system must be
capable of detecting retrieval failures and proactively reformulating
search queries to obtain more relevant content. To demonstrate this
capability, we examine the system’s response to the query: “How
did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic

⊲ Updating the step
⊲ Check if we need to change the query
⊲ Check if we need to end the search process

⊲ Updating the search query if it needs update

⊲ Returning the relevant retrieved documents

challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?”, as
illustrated in Table 3.

To address this question, the coordinator first invokes the plan-
ner agent to generate a structured plan. The resulting plan includes
the following steps: identifying John Ball’s role in golf history, re-
trieving key events or milestones in his career at Hoylake, and
examining the evolution and impact of out-of-bounds (OB) rules on
gameplay through historical records and expert analysis. Guided
by this plan, the coordinator then tasks the searcher agent with
retrieving information about John Ball’s influence on golf history
at Hoylake, which is successfully completed. Subsequently, the rea-
soner agent is called to analyze John Ball’s contributions. During
this reasoning process, it identifies the need to gather additional in-
formation regarding the strategic challenges of the Hoylake course.
However, the initial retrieval attempt fails to yield relevant content.
To address this, the searcher reformulates the query to focus on the
“strategic challenges of Hoylake Royal Liverpool Golf Club,” which
successfully retrieves pertinent information. The coordinator then
invokes the generator agent to produce a comprehensive response
using the collected evidence. As in the previous case study, this
response is passed to the validator agent for evaluation. Once all
criteria are satisfied, the coordinator concludes the process and
returns the final response.

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Algorithm 3 Implementation of the correctness reward model.
Input: question 𝑞, generated response 𝑟 , ground truth response 𝑔𝑡, evaluator LLM 𝜋
Output: correctness score 𝑠𝑓

1: 𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 = 𝜋 (𝑞, 𝑔𝑡)
2: 𝑆𝑓 = 0
3: for 𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡 ∈ 𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 do
4:

𝑆𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡 =
𝑆𝑓 = 𝑆𝑓 +

𝜋 (𝑞,𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡,𝑟,𝑔𝑡 )+1
3
𝑆𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡
|𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 |

5:

6: end for
7: return 𝑠𝑓

⊲ Extracting the atomic aspects from the ground truth output

⊲ For each of the extracted aspects from the ground truth response
⊲ Score the aspect using the LLM in range of -1 and 2, then normalize it to 0 and 1

⊲ Adding the score of aspect to the final score

⊲ Returning the correctness score for the generated response

Algorithm 4 Implementation of the Faithfulness reward model.
Input: question 𝑞, generated response 𝑟 , retrieved documents 𝐶, evaluator LLM 𝜋
Output: faithfulness score 𝑠𝑓

1: 𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 = 𝜋 (𝑞, 𝑟 )
2: 𝑆𝑓 = 0
3: for 𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡 ∈ 𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 do
4:

𝜋 (𝑞,𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡,𝑟,𝐶 )+1
2

𝑆𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡
|𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 |

𝑆𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑐𝑡 =
𝑆𝑓 = 𝑆𝑓 +

5:

6: end for
7: return 𝑠𝑓

⊲ Extracting the atomic aspects from the generated output

⊲ For each of the extracted aspects from the generated response
⊲ Score the aspect using the LLM in range of -1 and 1, then normalize it to 0 and 1

⊲ Adding the score of aspect to the final score

⊲ Returning the faithfulness score for the generated response

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Table 2: First case study of mRAG on the question: safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming

Agent
Coordinator

Conversation
User: {"question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming"}

Planner

Coordinator

LLM: {"agent": "planner",
"input": {"question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming", "information": ""},
"reason": "I will use the planner agent to create a strategy for gathering and processing
information related to safety concerns associated with hydrogen steam reforming." }
User (Coordinator):{ "question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming","information":""}

LLM (Planner): { "plan": ["Identify the key components of hydrogen steam reforming process",
"Research potential safety hazards associated with each component", "Gather data on accidents
or incidents related to hydrogen steam reforming from reliable sources such as industry
reports, academic journals, and government databases", "Review existing safety guidelines and
regulations for hydrogen steam reforming from organizations like OSHA, ISO, or relevant
national agencies", "Analyze the risk factors and propose mitigation strategies for identified
safety concerns", "Summarize findings and present a comprehensive overview of safety
concerns and recommended measures"] }
User(Planner): "Output from Planner [Avoiding Repetition]"

LLM: {"agent": "searcher", "input": { "question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming",
"information": "", "suggestions": ["key components of hydrogen steam reforming
process","potential safety hazards associated with each component","accidents or incidents
related to hydrogen steam reforming","existing safety guidelines and regulations for hydrogen
steam reforming" ]},
"reason": "The searcher agent will help me find relevant information about the key
components of hydrogen steam reforming, potential safety hazards, historical incidents, and
current safety guidelines." }

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Searcher

User (Coordinator): "Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]"

LLM (Searcher): {"search_query": ""key components of hydrogen steam reforming process",
"search_query_explanation": "To understand the safety concerns of hydrogen steam reforming,
it is important to first identify its key components as these components are likely to pose
potential safety hazards."}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 0
Documnet 1 ID: 552
Document 1 text: Product gas from the steam reforming of the methane and naphtha contains
equilibrium amounts of hydrogen,...
Documnet 2 ID: 352
Document 2 text: A final process stream is produced by steam reforming of residual...
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 0, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 552,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document provides detailed information about the key
components of the hydrogen steam reforming process, including the reformer, the temperature
conditions, and the water-shift gas reactions. It is highly relevant to understanding the safety
concerns of the process."
{"doc_id": 352,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document focuses on the advantages and economic benefits of
the steam reforming process but does not provide specific details about the key components or
potential safety hazards. Therefore, it is less relevant to the current query."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The initial search query yielded relevant documents that
provide detailed information about the key components of the hydrogen steam reforming
process. No immediate need to change the search query.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": false,
"end_search_explanation": "More information is needed to fully address the safety concerns of
the hydrogen steam reforming process. Additional searches may be necessary to find details
on potential safety hazards and existing safety guidelines.}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 0
Documnet 1 ID: 832
Document 1 text: Steam Methane Reforming one of the greatest challenges in today˘2019s
industries...
Documnet 2 ID: 915
Document 2 text: 5,082,481, Membrane Separation Process for Cracked Gases, describes...
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 0, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 832,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document provides detailed information about the steam
methane reforming process, including the temperature and pressure conditions, the role of
reformer tubes, and the importance of the process in hydrogen production. It is highly relevant
to understanding the safety concerns of the process."}{"doc_id": 915,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document discusses various membrane technologies for
hydrogen recovery but does not provide specific details about the key components or potential
safety hazards of the steam methane reforming process. Therefore, it is less relevant to the
current query."}],

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Searcher (Contd.)

"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The initial search query yielded relevant documents that
provide detailed information about the steam methane reforming process. No immediate need
to change the search query.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": false,
"end_search_explanation": "More information is needed to fully address the safety concerns of
the steam methane reforming process. Additional searches may be necessary to find details on
potential safety hazards and existing safety guidelines."}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 0
Documnet 1 ID: 189
Document 1 text: The reformer furnace design alternatives will be discussed below. Feed gas
˘2014 usually a mixture of hydrogen, methane and other light hydrocarbons ˘2014 is first
compressed to about 300 psig....
Documnet 2 ID: 254
Document 2 text: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS These and other objects, features
and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the
following description, pending claims and accompanying drawings where:....
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 0, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 189,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document provides detailed information about the key
components of the hydrogen steam reforming process, including the preheating, compression,
and heating stages, as well as the role of reformer tubes and furnace designs. It is highly
relevant to understanding the safety concerns of the process."
{"doc_id": 254,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document focuses on a novel pre-reforming and reforming
process configuration involving membranes for hydrogen gas separation and recovery. While
it mentions the steam methane reforming process, it does not provide specific details about the
key components or potential safety hazards. Therefore, it is less relevant to the current
query."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The initial search query yielded relevant documents that
provide detailed information about the key components of the hydrogen steam reforming
process. No immediate need to change the search query.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": false,
"end_search_explanation": "More information is needed to fully address the safety concerns of
the hydrogen steam reforming process. Additional searches may be necessary to find details
on potential safety hazards and existing safety guidelines.}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 0
Documnet 1 ID: 985
Document 1 text: Minimizing the hydrogen bled into the fuel gas can keep the hydrogen
production levels manageable. However, the hydrogen plant feed usually includes some
hydrogen that goes through for a ˘201cfree ride,...
Documnet 2 ID: 243
Document 2 text: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS These and other objects, features
and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the
following description, pending claims and accompanying drawings where:....

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Searcher (Contd.)

Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output....

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 0, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 189,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document provides detailed information about the key
components of the hydrogen steam reforming process, including the preheating, compression,
and heating stages, as well as the role of reformer tubes and furnace designs. It is highly
relevant to understanding the safety concerns of the process."
{"doc_id": 254,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document focuses on a novel pre-reforming and reforming
process configuration involving membranes for hydrogen gas separation and recovery. While
it mentions the steam methane reforming process, it does not provide specific details about the
key components or potential safety hazards. Therefore, it is less relevant to the current
query."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The initial search query yielded relevant documents that
provide detailed information about the key components of the hydrogen steam reforming
process. No immediate need to change the search query.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": false,
"end_search_explanation": "More information is needed to fully address the safety concerns of
the hydrogen steam reforming process. Additional searches may be necessary to find details
on potential safety hazards and existing safety guidelines.}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 0
Documnet 1 ID: 174
Document 1 text: Gas enters the bottom of the absorber, where it contacts lean solution. The
carbon dioxide is absorbed from the gas, leaving the rest of the contaminants and hydrogen
relatively untouched.....
Documnet 2 ID: 769
Document 2 text: From our extensive range of gas production machinery, we manufacture,
export and supply supreme quality Hydrogen Gas Generator.....
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 0, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 174,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document focuses on the PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption)
process for hydrogen purification and does not provide specific details about the key
components or potential safety hazards of the steam methane reforming process. Therefore, it
is less relevant to the current query."
{"doc_id": 769,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document describes a hydrogen gas generator and its features
but does not provide specific details about the key components or potential safety hazards of
the steam methane reforming process. Therefore, it is less relevant to the current query." "}],
"change_search_query": true,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The documents provided do not contain specific details
about the key components or potential safety hazards of the steam methane reforming process.
A new search query focusing on safety concerns and potential hazards is needed.",
"new_search_query": "potential safety hazards associated with steam methane reforming",
"end_search": false,
"end_search_explanation": "More information is needed to fully address the safety concerns of
the steam methane reforming process. A new search query focusing on potential safety
hazards is necessary." }

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Searcher (Contd.)

Coordinator

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 0
Documnet 1 ID: 124
Document 1 text: Gas enters the bottom of the absorber, where it contacts lean solution. The
carbon dioxide is absorbed from the gas, leaving the rest of the contaminants and hydrogen
relatively untouched.....
Documnet 2 ID: 832
Document 2 text: Steam Methane Reforming one of the greatest challenges in today˘2019s
industries is an increased demand for hydrogen. Due to its ever-increasing industrial relevance,
there is a need for efficient methods of hydrogen production, which has traditionally been
done at a high temperature....
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 1, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 124,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document provides detailed information about the potential
safety hazards during the startup procedure of steam methane reformers, including the risk of
overheating and melting of reformer tubes. It is highly relevant to understanding the safety
concerns of the process."
{"doc_id": 832,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document focuses on the general description of the steam
methane reforming process and its importance but does not provide specific details about
potential safety hazards. Therefore, it is less relevant to the current query."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The initial search query yielded relevant documents that
provide detailed information about the potential safety hazards during the steam methane
reforming process. No immediate need to change the search query.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": true,
"end_search_explanation": "The provided information is sufficient to address the safety
concerns of the steam methane reforming process. Further searches are not necessary." }
User (Searcher): "only the relevant documents found by searcher"

LLM : { "agent": "reasoner",
"input": {"question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming",
"information": "Steam methane reforming is a chemical process by which methane is
converted to hydrogen. It involves the reaction between natural gas, which contains methane
and steam, at a temperature of 700-1000˘00b0C and under a pressure of 3-25 bar. The products
of this chemical process are initially hydrogen and carbon monoxide. The carbon monoxide is
further reacted with steam in a water-gas shift reaction to produce more hydrogen and carbon
dioxide. Impurities are then removed from the system using pressure-swing adsorption. As a
result, pure hydrogen is isolated and extracted. This process is mediated by reformer tubes
˘2013 also known as catalyst tubes used in steam reformer furnaces known as steam methane
reformers. Minimizing the hydrogen bled into the fuel gas can keep the hydrogen production
levels manageable. However, the hydrogen plant feed usually includes some hydrogen that
goes through for a free ride, except for the cost of heating it up to reformer temperature and
ultimately cooling it back down to recovery level."},
"aspect": "Key components of hydrogen steam reforming process"},
"reason": "I will use the reasoner agent to analyze the key components of the hydrogen steam
reforming process and identify potential safety concerns associated with each component."}

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Reasoner

User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]

Coordinator

LLM (Reasoner): {"analysis": "Hydrogen steam reforming involves multiple key components
including the chemical reaction between methane and steam, the use of reformer tubes or
catalyst tubes, and the subsequent purification steps.", "The primary chemical reaction occurs
in the steam reformer furnace, where methane reacts with steam at high temperatures
(700-1000
u00b0C) and pressures (3-25 bar) to produce hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Reformer tubes
or catalyst tubes play a crucial role in facilitating the chemical reaction. These tubes house the
catalyst necessary for the steam reforming process, enhancing the rate of hydrogen
production.", "After the initial reaction, a water-gas shift reaction takes place to further convert
carbon monoxide into additional hydrogen and carbon dioxide, improving the purity of the
hydrogen output.", "Purification steps such as pressure-swing adsorption are employed to
remove impurities from the hydrogen stream, ensuring the final product is of high quality and
suitable for various applications.", "Minimizing hydrogen bleed during the process helps
maintain efficiency, but some hydrogen inevitably remains in the feed stream, requiring
energy to heat and cool."}
User (Reasoner): "Output from Reasoner [Avoiding Repetition]"

LLM : { "agent": "reasoner",
"input": {"question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming",
"information": "Hydrogen steam reforming involves multiple key components including the
chemical reaction between methane and steam, the use of reformer tubes or catalyst tubes, and
the subsequent purification steps. The primary chemical reaction occurs in the steam reformer
furnace, where methane reacts with steam at high temperatures (700-1000˘00b0C) and
pressures (3-25 bar) to produce hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Reformer tubes or catalyst
tubes play a crucial role in facilitating the chemical reaction. After the initial reaction, a
water-gas shift reaction takes place to further convert carbon monoxide into additional
hydrogen and carbon dioxide, improving the purity of the hydrogen output. Purification steps
such as pressure-swing adsorption are employed to remove impurities from the hydrogen
stream, ensuring the final product is of high quality and suitable for various applications.
Minimizing hydrogen bleed during the process helps maintain efficiency, but some hydrogen
inevitably remains in the feed stream, requiring energy to heat and cool."},
"aspect": "Potential safety hazards associated with each component"},
"reason": "I will use the reasoner agent to identify potential safety hazards associated with
each key component of the hydrogen steam reforming process."}

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Reasoner

User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM (Reasoner): {"analysis": "The steam reformer furnace is a critical component as it
operates at extremely high temperatures (700-1000
u00b0C). High temperatures pose potential risks such as thermal stress, cracking, and potential
leaks of flammable gases like methane, leading to fire or explosion hazards.", "Reformer tubes
or catalyst tubes are another key component. These tubes contain reactive materials that can
degrade over time due to exposure to high temperatures and corrosive environments,
potentially leading to tube failure and gas leaks. Additionally, the high-pressure environment
(3-25 bar) increases the severity of any leaks, posing significant safety risks.", "The water-gas
shift reactor, although not explicitly mentioned in the provided information, is an important
step in the process. It involves the reaction of carbon monoxide with steam at around 300-400
u00b0C to produce more hydrogen. High temperatures and the presence of reactive gases
increase the risk of equipment failure and gas leaks, which could lead to inhalation of toxic
gases or fires.", "Pressure-swing adsorption (PSA) is a purification step that uses adsorbents to
remove impurities from the hydrogen stream. During the adsorption and desorption cycles,
there is a risk of overpressure or vacuum conditions, which can damage the PSA equipment
and lead to gas leaks. Furthermore, the handling of adsorbents can pose health risks if inhaled
or contacted directly.", "Overall, the high temperatures, pressures, and flammable gases
involved in the hydrogen steam reforming process mean that all components must be carefully
designed, maintained, and monitored to ensure safety. Any failure in these systems can lead to
serious safety hazards."}
User (Reasoner): Output from Reasoner [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM: {"agent": "searcher",
"input": {"question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming",
"information": "The steam reformer furnace is a critical component as it operates at extremely
high temperatures (700-1000˘00b0C). Reformer tubes or catalyst tubes are another key
component. The water-gas shift reactor involves high temperatures and the presence of
reactive gases. Pressure-swing adsorption (PSA) equipment handles overpressure and vacuum
conditions.",
"suggestions": ["Historical incidents related to hydrogen steam reforming","Existing safety
guidelines and regulations for hydrogen steam reforming", "Mitigation strategies for identified
safety concerns" ],
"reason": "The searcher agent will help me find historical incidents, existing safety guidelines,
and mitigation strategies related to hydrogen steam reforming to provide a comprehensive
overview of safety concerns and recommended measures."}"

Coordinator

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Searcher

LLM (Searcher): {"search_query": "historical incidents related to hydrogen steam reforming",
"search_query_explanation": "Historical incidents can provide valuable insights into the types
of safety issues that have occurred in the past, which can help identify current safety concerns
and potential mitigation strategies."}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 2
Documnet 1 ID: 785
Document 1 text: Fuel refineries use a series of chemical reactions to arrive at the final product.
Hydrogen fluoride is used in the oil refining process and causes a reaction, called alkylation, to
make fuel from unrefined oil....
Documnet 2 ID: 200
Document 2 text: Fig. 4: Mass fractions of the species (ethanol, CO2 and H2O) along the
reformer axis.The mass fractions of the ethanol and steam decay along the reformer axis. The
ethanol conversion is 80.3%.....
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 2, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 785,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document provides a historical incident related to a refinery
accident involving hydrofluoric acid, which can be linked to safety concerns in steam
reforming processes. It highlights the potential for catastrophic impacts and the importance of
safety protocols."
{"doc_id": 200,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": ""This document discusses the mass fractions of species in a steam
reformer and safety concerns related to hydrogen integrity in steel tubes. While it provides
technical details, it does not directly address historical incidents or safety guidelines specific to
steam reforming. Therefore, it is less relevant to the current query."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The initial search query yielded relevant documents that
provide a historical incident related to a refinery accident involving hydrofluoric acid, which
can be linked to safety concerns in steam reforming processes. No immediate need to change
the search query.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": true,
"end_search_explanation": "The provided information is sufficient to address the safety
concerns of the steam methane reforming process. Further searches are not necessary." }

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Coordinator

User (Searcher): "only the relevant documents found by searcher"

Summarizer

Coordinator

Answerer

LLM (Coordinator): {"agent": "summarizer",
"input": {"question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming",
"information": ""The steam reformer furnace is a critical component as it operates at extremely
high temperatures (700-1000˘00b0C). Reformer tubes or catalyst tubes are another key
component. The water-gas shift reactor involves high temperatures and the presence of
reactive gases. Pressure-swing adsorption (PSA) equipment handles overpressure and vacuum
conditions. Historical incidents related to hydrogen steam reforming include an explosion at
an ExxonMobil refinery in Torrance, California, where an explosion occurred due to a leak of
hydrocarbons into an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) device, causing sparks and igniting the
hydrocarbons. This resulted in a dust cloud extending for miles and projected large debris
around the site. The incident highlighted the importance of proper evaluation of process
hazards, implementation of safeguards, and adherence to safety precautions."}
"reason": "I will use the summarizer agent to create a concise summary of the key points
regarding the safety concerns associated with hydrogen steam reforming based on the
gathered information."}
User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator and relevant retrieved documents [Avoiding
Repetition]

LLM (Summarizer): {"summary": "Hydrogen steam reforming involves critical components
like high-temperature furnaces (700-1000
u00b0C), reformer/tubes, and water-gas shift reactors. PSA equipment manages
overpressure/vacuum conditions. Historical incidents, such as an explosion at ExxonMobil
u2019s Torrance refinery, underscore the need for thorough hazard assessments, robust safety
measures, and strict adherence to safety protocols."}
User (Answerer): Output from Summarizer [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM:{"agent": "Answerer",
"input": {"question": "safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming",
"guidance": "Provide a detailed overview of the key components of hydrogen steam reforming,
potential safety hazards associated with each component, historical incidents, and existing
safety guidelines and regulations.","important_information": "High-temperature furnaces
(700-1000˘00b0C), reformer/tubes, water-gas shift reactors, PSA equipment, historical incidents,
and safety guidelines."}
"reason": "I will use the answerer agent to generate a comprehensive response to the question
about safety concerns in hydrogen steam reforming, incorporating the key components,
potential hazards, historical incidents, and safety guidelines."},
User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM: {"response": "Hydrogen steam reforming is a critical process in the production of
hydrogen, involving several key components such as high-temperature furnaces,
reformer/tubes, water-gas shift reactors, and PSA equipment. Each component presents
specific safety concerns. High-temperature furnaces, operating at 700-1000
u00b0C, pose risks of thermal burns and potential tube failures due to excessive temperatures.
Reformer/tubes are susceptible to coking and require careful monitoring to prevent catalyst
degradation. Water-gas shift reactors, where the exothermic reaction occurs, need proper
cooling systems to manage temperature increases. PSA equipment, used for hydrogen
purification, must be handled with care to avoid pressure-related accidents. Historical
incidents, such as the ExxonMobil refinery explosion involving hydrofluoric acid, highlight the
importance of stringent safety measures. Safety guidelines emphasize the need for proper
monitoring, regular maintenance, and adherence to operating procedures to mitigate risks.
Regulations require thorough hazard assessments and the implementation of safeguards to
prevent accidents. Understanding these components and their associated safety concerns is
crucial for the safe operation of hydrogen steam reforming facilities." }

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Coordinator

User (Answerer): Output from Answerer [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM: {"agent": "validator", "input": { "question":"safety concerns hydrogen steam reforming"
"information": "Hydrogen steam reforming is a critical process in the production of hydrogen,
involving several key components such as high-temperature furnaces, reformer/tubes,
water-gas shift reactors, and PSA equipment. Each component presents specific safety
concerns. High-temperature furnaces, operating at 700-1000˘00b0C, pose risks of thermal burns
and potential tube failures due to excessive temperatures. Reformer/tubes are susceptible to
coking and require careful monitoring to prevent catalyst degradation. Water-gas shift
reactors, where the exothermic reaction occurs, need proper cooling systems to manage
temperature increases. PSA equipment, used for hydrogen purification, must be handled with
care to avoid pressure-related accidents. Historical incidents, such as the ExxonMobil refinery
explosion involving hydrofluoric acid, highlight the importance of stringent safety measures.
Safety guidelines emphasize the need for proper monitoring, regular maintenance, and
adherence to operating procedures to mitigate risks. Regulations require thorough hazard
assessments and the implementation of safeguards to prevent accidents. Understanding these
components and their associated safety concerns is crucial for the safe operation of hydrogen
steam reforming facilities.",
"response": "Hydrogen steam reforming is a critical process in the production of hydrogen,
involving several key components such as high-temperature furnaces, reformer/tubes,
water-gas shift reactors, and PSA equipment. Each component presents specific safety
concerns. High-temperature furnaces, operating at 700-1000˘00b0C, pose risks of thermal burns
and potential tube failures due to excessive temperatures. Reformer/tubes are susceptible to
coking and require careful monitoring to prevent catalyst degradation. Water-gas shift
reactors, where the exothermic reaction occurs, need proper cooling systems to manage
temperature increases. PSA equipment, used for hydrogen purification, must be handled with
care to avoid pressure-related accidents. Historical incidents, such as the ExxonMobil refinery
explosion involving hydrofluoric acid, highlight the importance of stringent safety measures.
Safety guidelines emphasize the need for proper monitoring, regular maintenance, and
adherence to operating procedures to mitigate risks. Regulations require thorough hazard
assessments and the implementation of safeguards to prevent accidents. Understanding these
components and their associated safety concerns is crucial for the safe operation of hydrogen
steam reforming facilities."},
"reason": "I will use the validator agent to check if the generated response meets the criteria
for the given question."}
User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM: {"extracted_criteria": [{"criteria": "detailed", "criteria_explanation": "The question asks
about safety concerns related to hydrogen steam reforming, which requires a detailed
explanation.", "is_response_valid¨: true, "is_response_valid_feedback": "The response is detailed
and covers various aspects of safety concerns in hydrogen steam reforming."}],
"is_groundedly_supported": true, "is_groundedly_supported_feedback": "The response is
well-grounded with supporting information, including specific components, potential risks,
and historical incidents.", "is_correctly_answered": true, "is_correctly_answered_feedback":
"The response correctly addresses the safety concerns of hydrogen steam reforming and
provides relevant details."}"
User (Validator): Output from Validator [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM: {"agent":"finisher", "input":"finished":true}

Validator

Coordinator

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Table 3: Second case study of mRAG on the question: How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic
challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?

Agent
Coordinator

Conversation
User: {"question": "How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic
challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?"}

Planner

Coordinator

LLM: {"agent": "planner",
"input": {"question": "How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic
challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?", "information": ""},
"reason": "I need to create a plan to gather and organize the necessary information to answer
the question." }
User (Coordinator):{ "question": "How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and
what strategic challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?"
"information": "" }

LLM (Planner): { "plan": ["Research John Ball’s role in golf history, focusing on his connection
to Hoylake Golf Club.", "Identify key events or moments in John Ball’s career at Hoylake that
significantly impacted golf history.", "Analyze the current layout and characteristics of the
Hoylake course, particularly its out of bounds (OB) rules and challenges it presents to players.",
"Consult historical records and expert opinions to understand how these OB rules have
evolved over time and their impact on gameplay.", "Compile findings into a coherent narrative
that highlights John Ball’s influence and the strategic challenges posed by the course."] }
User(Planner): "Output from Planner [Avoiding Repetition]"

LLM: {"agent": "searcher",
"input": "question": "How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic
challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?", "information": "", "suggestions":
["John Ball", "Hoylake Golf Club", "history of golf at Hoylake", "out of bounds rules in golf"],
"reason": "The next step is to find relevant information about John Ball’s connection to
Hoylake and the characteristics of the Hoylake course."}

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Searcher

User (Coordinator): "Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]"

LLM (Searcher): {"search_query": "John Ball influence on Hoylake golf history",
"search_query_explanation": "This search query aims to find information specifically related to
how John Ball influenced golf history at Hoylake, which directly addresses part of the
question."}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 0
Documnet 1 ID: 224
Document 1 text: United Kingdom: Grant Books, 2001. 81p. half leather, slipcase. Limited
edition of 95 subscribers copies. Hoylake, otherwise known as The Royal Liverpool Golf Club
is one of golf’s most storied venues....
Documnet 2 ID: 705 Document 2 text: Ball dominated amateur golf in Great Britain. He won all
the important golf championships as well as the hearts and respect of his country.....
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 0, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 224,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document mentions John Ball’s connection to Hoylake and his
influence on golf history, making it relevant to the question."
{"doc_id": 705,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document also discusses John Ball’s influence on golf history
and his relationship with Hoylake, making it relevant to the question."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The current documents are relevant and contain useful
information about John Ball’s influence on golf at Hoylake.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": true,
"end_search_explanation": "The provided documents are sufficient to answer the question
about John Ball’s influence on golf history at Hoylake."}
User (Searcher): "only the relevant documents found by searcher"

LLM : { "agent": "reasoner",
"input": {"question": "How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic
challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?",
"information": ""John Ball, Jr. was born in Hoylake, Cheshire and grew up playing golf on the
Royal Liverpool course. He won several Amateur and Open Championships, including the
1890 Open Championship. He was known for his graceful swing and refusal to use a niblick. In
1878, he competed in his first Open Championship and finished fourth at Prestwick."},
"aspect": "John Ball’s influence on golf history at Hoylake"},
"reason": "I need to analyze the information I’ve gathered to determine how John Ball
influenced golf history at Hoylake."}

Coordinator

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Reasoner

User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]

Coordinator

LLM (Reasoner): {"analysis": "John Ball, Jr. was born and raised in Hoylake, making him a
local figure associated with the Royal Liverpool Golf Club, which is located there.", "He had
significant success in golf competitions, winning multiple Amateur and Open Championships,
with the most notable being the 1890 Open Championship. This highlights his skill and impact
on the sport.", "His participation in the 1878 Open Championship at Prestwick, even before
winning the major title, indicates his early prominence in professional golf and his potential
influence on the tournament’s legacy.", "Ball’s graceful swing and refusal to use a niblick (an
early type of iron club) reflect his unique style and contributed to his reputation as a skilled
player, potentially influencing other golfers’ techniques and preferences over time.", "Given his
connection to Hoylake and the Royal Liverpool Golf Club, Ball likely played the course
extensively, contributing to its historical significance and possibly offering insights or
suggestions that shaped the venue’s development and reputation."}
User (Reasoner): "Output from Reasoner [Avoiding Repetition]"

LLM : { "agent": "searcher",
"input": {"question": "How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic
challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?",
"information": "John Ball, Jr. was born and raised in Hoylake, making him a local figure
associated with the Royal Liverpool Golf Club, which is located there. He had significant
success in golf competitions, winning multiple Amateur and Open Championships, with the
most notable being the 1890 Open Championship. His participation in the 1878 Open
Championship at Prestwick, even before winning the major title, indicates his early
prominence in professional golf and his potential influence on the tournament’s legacy. Ball’s
graceful swing and refusal to use a niblick reflect his unique style and contributed to his
reputation as a skilled player, potentially influencing other golfers’ techniques and preferences
over time. Given his connection to Hoylake and the Royal Liverpool Golf Club, Ball likely
played the course extensively, contributing to its historical significance and possibly offering
insights or suggestions that shaped the venue’s development and reputation."},
"suggestions": ["strategic challenges of Hoylake course", "out of bounds rules in golf", "Royal
Liverpool Golf Club history"],
"reason": "I need to find more information about the strategic challenges presented by the
Hoylake course and the specific rules related to out of bounds to complete the analysis."}

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Searcher

User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM (Searcher): {"search_query": "strategic challenges of Hoylake course",
"search_query_explanation": "This search query aims to find information about the strategic
challenges presented by the Hoylake course, which is crucial for understanding the second
part of the question."}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 1
Documnet 1 ID: 399
Document 1 text: The old seventeenth, now the first, known as the Royal hole, was one of
Harry Colt˘2019s most famous creations, with the green set right against Stanley Road; sadly,
because it was impossible to get spectators round it, the green had to go to get the Open back
to Hoylake....
Documnet 2 ID: 829 Document 2 text: The Open requires mental strength to overcome the
obstacles thrown by Mother Nature. Having excellent control of ball flight is essential for any
player to be successful when playing in windy, rainy and cold conditions.....
Now I need you to verify the information. Be as objective as possible in your verification. Note
you should strictly follow the given format and do not add any extra explanation or
information to your output.

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 1, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 399,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document discusses the strategic challenges of various golf
courses, including Hoylake, particularly focusing on the use of out of bounds lines and
bunkers to create strategic elements."}
{"doc_id": 829,
"is_relevant": false,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document focuses on the mental and physical preparation for
playing in difficult weather conditions and does not discuss the strategic challenges of Hoylake
or out of bounds rules."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "The current documents are relevant and contain useful
information about John Ball’s influence on golf at Hoylake.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": true,
"end_search_explanation": "The provided documents are sufficient to answer the question
about John Ball’s influence on golf history at Hoylake."}

User (Retriever): This is the information resulted from your search query:
Query ID: 2
Documnet 1 ID: 206
Document 1 text: But it is important to note that, when older courses were built, the penalty for
going out of bounds was not necessarily quite as severe as it is today. Back in the day, the use
of out of bounds as a strategic hazard was, if not exactly commonplace, far from unknown....
Documnet 2 ID: 399 Document 2 text: The old seventeenth, now the first, known as the Royal
hole, was one of Harry Colt˘2019s most famous creations, with the green set right against
Stanley Road; sadly, because it was impossible to get spectators round it, the green had to go to
get the Open back to Hoylake...

LLM (Searcher): { "query_id": 2, "relevance": [{"doc_id": 206,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document discusses the strategic use of out of bounds at
Hoylake, providing specific examples and insights into how the course utilizes these areas."}
{"doc_id": 399,
"is_relevant": true,
"is_relevant_explanation": "This document also provides detailed information about the
strategic use of out of bounds at Hoylake, including examples like the Royal hole and the ninth
hole (formerly the seventh)."}],
"change_search_query": false,
"change_search_query_explanation": "Both documents are relevant and contain useful
information about the strategic challenges of Hoylake’s course, particularly concerning out of
bounds lines.",
"new_search_query": "",
"end_search": true,

"end_search_explanation": "The provided documents are sufficient to answer the question

about the strategic challenges of the Hoylake course and the role of out of bounds."}

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Coordinator

User (Searcher): "only the relevant documents found by searcher"

Answerer

LLM: {"agent": "answerer",
"input": {"question": "How did John Ball influence golf history at Hoylake, and what strategic
challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?",
"guidance": "Provide a detailed account of John Ball’s influence on golf at Hoylake,
highlighting his achievements and unique style. Also, describe the strategic challenges
presented by the Hoylake course, particularly focusing on the out of bounds rules and how
they affect gameplay."
"important_information": "John Ball’s connection to Hoylake, his golfing achievements, and
the course’s out of bounds rules."
"reason": "Based on the gathered information, I will now craft a comprehensive response
addressing both aspects of the question."}
User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator and relevant retrieved documents [Avoiding
Repetition]

LLM (Answerer): {"response": "John Ball significantly influenced golf history at Hoylake,
Cheshire, where he grew up playing on the Royal Liverpool Golf Club course. Born in Hoylake,
Ball was the son of the Royal Hotel’s prosperous owner, which placed him in the heart of the
golfing community. His achievements include winning the Open Championship in 1890 and
the Amateur Championship in 1888, making him the first English-born player to win both
titles in the same year. Ball’s unique style was characterized by his graceful swing and his
refusal to use a niblick, which he considered ’another bloody spade.’ This stubbornness and
determination made him a formidable player in match play. Hoylake, known for its storied
golfing history, presents strategic challenges, particularly concerning out of bounds rules. The
course’s design incorporates out of bounds lines as strategic hazards, encouraging players to
take risks for better shot lines. For instance, the traditional opening hole features a drive over a
turf ’cop,’ with the favored strategic line being close to the cop. The use of out of bounds as a
strategic element adds complexity to the game, requiring players to balance risk and reward.
Overall, John Ball’s influence on golf at Hoylake is marked by his exceptional achievements
and his impact on the strategic design of the course, particularly through the thoughtful
integration of out of bounds rules."}

CIIR@LiveRAG 2025: Optimizing Multi-Agent Retrieval Augmented Generation through Self-Training

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Coordinator

User (Answerer): Output from Answerer [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM: {"agent": "validator", "input": { "question":"How did John Ball influence golf history at
Hoylake, and what strategic challenges does the course present regarding out of bounds?"
"information": "John Ball significantly influenced golf history at Hoylake, Cheshire, where he
grew up playing on the Royal Liverpool Golf Club course. Born in Hoylake, Ball was the son of
the Royal Hotel’s prosperous owner, which placed him in the heart of the golfing community.
His achievements include winning the Open Championship in 1890 and the Amateur
Championship in 1888, making him the first English-born player to win both titles in the same
year. Ball’s unique style was characterized by his graceful swing and his refusal to use a
niblick, which he considered ’another bloody spade.’ This stubbornness and determination
made him a formidable player in match play. Hoylake, known for its storied golfing history,
presents strategic challenges, particularly concerning out of bounds rules. The course’s design
incorporates out of bounds lines as strategic hazards, encouraging players to take risks for
better shot lines. For instance, the traditional opening hole features a drive over a turf ’cop,’
with the favored strategic line being close to the cop. The use of out of bounds as a strategic
element adds complexity to the game, requiring players to balance risk and reward. Overall,
John Ball’s influence on golf at Hoylake is marked by his exceptional achievements and his
impact on the strategic design of the course, particularly through the thoughtful integration of
out of bounds rules.",
"response": "John Ball significantly influenced golf history at Hoylake, Cheshire, where he
grew up playing on the Royal Liverpool Golf Club course. Born in Hoylake, Ball was the son of
the Royal Hotel’s prosperous owner, which placed him in the heart of the golfing community.
His achievements include winning the Open Championship in 1890 and the Amateur
Championship in 1888, making him the first English-born player to win both titles in the same
year. Ball’s unique style was characterized by his graceful swing and his refusal to use a
niblick, which he considered ’another bloody spade.’ This stubbornness and determination
made him a formidable player in match play. Hoylake, known for its storied golfing history,
presents strategic challenges, particularly concerning out of bounds rules. The course’s design
incorporates out of bounds lines as strategic hazards, encouraging players to take risks for
better shot lines. For instance, the traditional opening hole features a drive over a turf ’cop,’
with the favored strategic line being close to the cop. The use of out of bounds as a strategic
element adds complexity to the game, requiring players to balance risk and reward. Overall,
John Ball’s influence on golf at Hoylake is marked by his exceptional achievements and his
impact on the strategic design of the course, particularly through the thoughtful integration of
out of bounds rules."},
"reason": "I need to validate if the response accurately addresses the question and is grounded
in the provided information."}
User (Coordinator): Output from Coordinator [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM (Validator): {"extracted_criteria": [{"criteria": "detailed", "criteria_explanation": ""The
question asks about John Ball’s influence on golf history at Hoylake and the strategic
challenges presented by the course. A detailed response would cover these aspects
comprehensively.", "is_response_valid¨: true, "is_response_valid_feedback": "The response is
detailed and covers both the historical influence of John Ball and the strategic challenges
presented by the course."}],
"is_groundedly_supported": true,
"is_groundedly_supported_feedback": "The response is well-grounded in the provided
information and includes specific examples such as the Open Championship wins and the
strategic use of out of bounds lines.",
"is_correctly_answered¨: true,
"is_correctly_answered_feedback¨: ¨The response correctly answers the question by detailing
John Ball’s influence and explaining the strategic challenges presented by Hoylake."} }

Validator

SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy.

Alireza Salemi, Mukta Maddipatla, and Hamed Zamani

Coordinator

User (Validator): Output from Validator [Avoiding Repetition]

LLM: {"agent":"finisher", "input":"finished":true}