Bridging the Gap: Leveraging Retrieval-Augmented Generation to Better 
Understand Public Concerns about Vaccines 

Muhammad Javed* 

Epidemiology Informatics, Centre for Health Analytics, Murdoch Children's Research Institute (MCRI), Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia, muhammad.javed@mcri.edu.au 

Sedigh Khademi Habibabadi 

Epidemiology Informatics, Centre for Health Analytics, Murdoch Children's Research Institute (MCRI), Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia sedigh.khademi@mcri.edu.au 

Christopher Palmer 
Epidemiology Informatics, Centre for Health Analytics, Murdoch Children's Research Institute (MCRI), Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia chris.palmer@mcri.edu.au 

Hazel Clothier 

Epidemiology Informatics, Centre for Health Analytics, Murdoch Children's Research Institute (MCRI), Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia jo.hickman@mcri.edu.au 

Jim Buttery 

Epidemiology Informatics, Centre for Health Analytics, Murdoch Children's Research Institute (MCRI), Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia. Infectious Disease Unit, Department of General Medicine, Royal Children’s Hospital, Parkville, 
Australia, Department of Paediatrics, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia, jim.buttery@mcri.edu.au 

Gerardo Luis Dimaguila 

Health Informatics Group, Murdoch Children's Research Institute (MCRI), Parkville, Australia, 
gerardoluis.dimaguil@mcri.edu.au 

Vaccine hesitancy threatens public health, leading to delayed or rejected vaccines. Social media is a vital source for 
understanding public concerns, and traditional methods like topic modelling often struggle to capture nuanced 
opinions. Though trained for query answering, large Language Models (LLMs) often miss current events and 
community concerns. Additionally, hallucinations in LLMs can compromise public health communication. To 
address these limitations, we developed a tool (VaxPulse Query Corner) using the Retrieval Augmented Generation 
technique. It addresses complex queries about public vaccine concerns on various online platforms, aiding public 
health administrators and stakeholders in understanding public concerns and implementing targeted interventions 
to boost vaccine confidence. Analysing 35,103 Shingrix® social media posts, it achieved answer faithfulness (0.96) 
and relevance (0.94). 

* Corresponding Author. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CCS CONCEPTS 
•Information systems •Information retrieval •Specialized information retrieval •Environment-specific retrieval 
•Web and social media search 

Additional Keywords and Phrases: Vaccine Hesitancy, Social Media, Large Language Model, Retrieval Augmented 
Generation 

1 INTRODUCTION 

SAEFVIC (Surveillance of Adverse Events Following Vaccination in the Community) monitors vaccine safety in 

Victoria, Australia. It detects, assesses, and analyses adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). SAEFVIC 
offers educational resources for the public and healthcare providers, including eLearning and current 
immunisation guidelines. To engage the community, SAEFVIC publishes weekly vaccine safety reports [1]. 

Effective communication between healthcare providers and consumers is crucial for health literacy. Social 
media platforms empower public health organisations to engage diverse audiences and provide accessible, real-
time health information [2]. Vaccine hesitancy, a top 10 global health threat, is driven by factors like 
misinformation and inadequate information on vaccine safety and efficacy [3]. Researchers have employed 
techniques like topic modelling to analyse public concerns on social media but struggle with complex questions 
like "Do people believe vaccines cause long-term side effects, and if so, what are these?" 

LLMs have revolutionised NLP, including topic modelling and question answering [4]. Pre-trained on large 
datasets, LLMs are prone to hallucinations, generating inaccurate information that can pose risks in fields like law 
and medical consultation [5]. To overcome these limitations, Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a more 
suitable approach for tasks requiring precise information retrieval and query answering [6]. 

1.1 Objective 

In this paper, we are introducing VaxPulse Query Corner (VaxPulse QC), a tool that is based on the RAG 
technique to answer complex queries about vaccinations. This tool will help us gain a better understanding of 
public concerns related to vaccinations from online media in near real-time. It is being developed as part of our 
framework VaxPulse, which is developed to know public sentiments and topics of discussion about vaccinations 
by processing online and social media data from various platforms in near-real time. VaxPulse QC aims to bridge 
the gap presented by the limitations of sentiment analysis and topic modelling. This comprehensive solution could 
also support communication between the public and public health professionals and other stakeholders. By 
understanding the information gaps and persistent concerns expressed in comments, public health officials can 
adjust their communication strategies to be more informative and address specific needs. 

2 Related Work 

RAG techniques are leveraged to unlock real-time insights from data streams across diverse fields, enabling 
faster and more comprehensive analysis. To our knowledge, the RAG method has not been used in vaccination-
related online discussions to answer the queries of public health administrators and other stakeholders. Table 1 
presents some implementations of the RAG method in the medical domain to highlight its advantages. 

Table 1: RAG implementation in the medical domain 

Authors 
Kim et al. [7] 

Implementations of the RAG method in the medical domain 
Developed the QA-RAG chatbot for the pharmaceutical industry, combining 
generative AI and RAG to answer user queries using guideline documents. It extracts 
documents based on LLM-generated answers and queries, reranks them for 
relevance, and uses ChatGPT-3.5-turbo with few-shot prompting for final responses. 

2 

Miao et al. [8] 

Ge et al. [9] 

Al Ghadban et al. 
[10] 

Saba et al. [11] 

Zakka et al. [12] 

Applied the RAG pipeline in nephrology to address LLM hallucinations by integrating 
external data for clinical decision-making and educational applications related to 
kidney disease. 
Created LiVersa, a RAG-based system for liver disease queries, using guidelines from 
the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and comparing its 
responses with trainees’ knowledge. 
Employed RAG to enhance healthcare information in low- and middle-income 
countries, assisting community health workers with maternal care through locally 
relevant information. They achieved scores of 0.16 in context relevancy, 0.93 in 
faithfulness, 0.93 in answer relevancy, and 0.26 in context recall. 
Used RAG to summarise electronic health records, reducing screen time for patients 
and medical professionals by extracting and summarising documents with a 
confidence score. 
Introduced Almanac, an LLM framework with RAG functionality for medical 
guidelines. Almanac was evaluated against conventional LLMs with 314 clinical 
questions across nine specialties, showing significant improvements in accuracy and 
user satisfaction. 

3 METHOD 

The VaxPulse QC pipeline is illustrated in Figure 1. To clarify our method, we have divided it into four key 

steps: dataset creation, first iteration, second iteration, and answer formulation. 

Figure 1: Method 

3.1 Dataset Creation 

We created the dataset using the following steps. Our method paper [13] provides further details on data 

creation, and we also utilised initial steps in [14] for social bot detection. 

3.1.1Online media data scraping 

We collect vaccination-related posts from X (former Tweeter), Reddit, YouTube, and Facebook using 

authorised APIs Tweepy, PRAW, and the Google API Client Library. 

3.1.2Preprocessing 

Perform certain preprocessing steps to remove unnecessary text from the comments. 

3 

 
 
3.1.3Segregate Vaccine-specific Comments 

We developed a two-step process to identify vaccine-related comments. First, a fine-tuned BERT model 
categorises comments into three buckets: vaccine (general vaccine information, news, or promotions), personal 
health mentions, and other (non-vaccine-related discussion). Second, a GPT-4o model with prompt engineering 
extracts comments about a specific vaccine, such as Shingrix®. This enables public health administrators to 
address questions like "What is the public sentiment about the second dose of the Shingrix vaccine?" 

3.1.4Create embedding and Save in Vector database 

Embedding databases significantly enhance RAG models by enabling faster retrieval of relevant information 
through vector comparisons. This semantic similarity approach ensures focus on relevant content, leading to a 
more accurate and coherent context. We used OpenAI's text-embedding-ada-002 model to create 1536-
dimensional embeddings for our selected dataset, stored in a vector database using the LangChain [15] library. 

3.2 First Iteration 

3.2.1Top K Comments Retrieval 

Semantic similarity captured by query embeddings allows the RAG model to retrieve highly relevant 

documents, improving accuracy. We used OpenAI’s text-embedding-ada-002 model for query embedding and 
LangChain to retrieve the top k (percentage) relevant comments by semantic similarity search. This iteration 
retrieves a large number of comments from our growing vector database, fed by weekly vaccine-specific data 
extraction. 

3.2.2Ranking & Re-Ranking 

LLMs struggle to process information located in the middle of longer contexts. This "lost in the middle" 

phenomenon affects RAG models, causing them to overlook crucial information within retrieved documents. Re-
ordering retrieved documents is a potential solution to mitigate this issue. We employ a two-step ranking process: 
initial ranking and re-ranking. The initial ranking leverages LangChain's longcontextreorder module to 
automatically re-order retrieved documents. This places the most similar documents at the top, the least similar 
in the middle, and the next few at the bottom. To consolidate dispersed information in retrieved documents, we 
use a multi-stage re-ranking process, applying FlashRank [16] with efficient models like ms-marco-MiniLM-L-12-
v2 for smaller sets and rank-T5-flan for larger ones. For fewer than 10 comments, we skip re-ranking, 
implementing an "early exit" strategy. 

3.3 Second Iteration 

This iteration refines comment selection for accurate results. We prioritise quality over latency by extracting 
the most relevant information. While the initial iteration extracted documents from a large database, this iteration 
focuses on a subset of highly relevant comments. To reduce the LLM's cognitive load, we employ contextual 
compression using LangChain. This technique shortens comments while preserving essential context. By setting 
an 80% similarity threshold, we select 50% of the top-ranked comments from the retrieved data in first iteration, 
further improving information quality. We applied ranking and re-ranking steps on the compressed comments in 
a similar way as discussed in the first iteration. 

3.4 Formulate Answer 

To generate a presentable result for the user by considering the query, ranked chunks of the comments, and a 

selected option for the output (i.e., Answer the Question, Topic of discussion, Summarise, Public Concerns). 
Leveraging the gpt-4o model, we formulate the answer by moulding the raw context into a specific format. 

4 

4 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 

As a case study, we implemented the VaxPulse QC by collecting the public discussion about the Shingrix® 
zoster vaccine for shingles. Australia’s Therapeutic Goods Administrator approved Shingrix® zoster vaccine in 
2021 but Shingrix® has been used internationally since 2017. The experiences and concerns of international 
consumers are helpful in knowing the public concerns and in formulating the educational material for Australians. 

Online discussions on vaccination often cover various topics, including general discussions on shingles 

vaccines, the earlier Zostavax® vaccine, as well as concerns and adverse events experienced with co-administered 
vaccines. It requires segregating comments about the Shingrix® vaccine. 

We segregated 35,103 vaccine-related comments from the 60,935 total comments posted on X (formerly 

Twitter), Reddit, YouTube and Facebook between January 2018 and October 2024. 

4.1 Test Cases Generation 

Generating hundreds of complex queries and their reference answers (ground truth) manually to evaluate the 

RAG pipeline is a time-consuming and laborious task. It is more difficult in our case because VaxPulse has four 
different categories of queries to extract more relevant information, and secondly, the reference answers have to 
be generated by processing thousands of comments. We adopt the Retrieval Augmented Generation Assessment 
(RAGAs) framework [17] for automated evaluation of our RAG pipeline. 

RAGAs can also generate synthetic test cases to evaluate each component of an RAG pipeline. It uses a unique 

approach to generate questions with varying levels of difficulty, as well as different characteristics such as 
reasoning, conditioning, and multi-context, all derived from the provided dataset. This makes RAGAs an ideal tool 
for evaluating the performance of RAG pipelines. It not only generates the questions and their reference answers 
(also known as ground truths) but also extracts the context for the validation step. We generated test cases with a 
50% ratio of simple questions and 25% for reasoning and multi-context questions, using default settings. 
However, we modified the test case generation prompt in RAGAs for the output options summarisation, public 
concerns, and topics of discussion. RAGAs generated a total of 276 test cases from the Shingrix dataset. This 
included 103 test cases for question/answer, 56 for extracting public concerns, 45 for summarising comments on 
vaccination, and 72 for generating discussion topics. 

4.2 Results 

The results of the VaxPulse QC evaluation for the context extraction component are presented in Table 2. 

Table 2: Context retrieval components evaluation results 

Iteration 
First Iteration (average) 
Second Iteration (average) 
Highest Scores 

Context Precision 
0.56 
0.66 
1 

Context Recall 
0.85 
0.91 
1 

Al Ghadban et al. [10] employed RAG to enhance healthcare information in low- and middle-income countries, 

assisting community health workers with maternal care through locally relevant information. They achieved 
scores of 0.16 in context relevancy and 0.26 in context recall. 

VaxPulse's retrieval component improved from 0.56 to 0.66 for context precision and from 0.85 to 0.91 for 
context recall between iterations. The second iteration's context compression step, which extracts query-relevant 
parts of documents, contributed to this improvement. VaxPulse achieved perfect scores (1) for 13% of context 
precision and 90% of context recall test cases. Answers to the queries are evaluated based on their faithfulness 
and relevancy. Table 2 displays the evaluation results of the answer generation component. 

5 

 
Table 2: Answer Generation component evaluation 

Query Type 
Answer the Question 
Topics of Discussion 
Summarise 
Public Concerns 

Faithfulness (Avg) 
0.90 
0.90 
0.96 
0.88 

Answer Relevancy (Avg) 
0.89 
0.91 
0.94 
0.82 

The average faithfulness and relevancy scores of VaxPulse’s answer generation component for the QA option 
are 0.90 and 0.89 respectively. The scores for extracting discussion topics are 0.90 and 0.91. VaxPulse’s average 
score for the context summarisation is 0.96 and 0.94 which is due to the relevant context compression step in the 
second iteration. It achieved the highest score (1) for many test cases across different query types. 

Social media is a mutually beneficial touchpoint for public health organisations and consumers to exchange 

information and promote relationships, especially for those with disabilities or chronic illnesses. 

To effectively plan and communicate, health professionals must understand public sentiment and concerns. 

VaxPulse QC empowers stakeholders by providing tailored answers to specific queries. For instance, topic 
modelling might overlook localised concerns about the second dose of Shingrix® vaccine due to limited data. This 
tool can extract relevant comments to formulate informative responses. In conjunction with existing techniques in 
our framework (VaxPulse), this tool can assist the SAEFVIC team in identifying public concerns about an adverse 
event of special interest. 

5 CONCLUSION 

Social media is a rich source of public opinion, but analysing vaccine-related sentiment is challenging due to 
the sheer volume of data. Traditional methods like sentiment analysis and topic modelling often fail to capture 
nuanced opinions. VaxPulse QC, an efficient method, empowers public health administrators to understand 
vaccine concerns and hesitancies through customised queries. By leveraging the RAG pipeline, VaxPulse QC 
extracts key information from real-time data, mitigating the risk of LLM hallucinations. 

REFERENCES 

[1] Clothier, H. J., Crawford, N. W., Kempe, A., and Buttery, J. P. 2011. Surveillance of adverse events following immunisation: the model of 

SAEFVIC, Victoria. Commun. Dis. Intell. Q. Rep., 35, 4 (Dec.), 294–8. 

[2] Walsh, L., Hill, S., and Waterhouse, T. 2019. Guide to producing and sourcing quality health information: Guidelines to support high-quality 
health information for consumers and carers in Victoria. Centre for Health Communication and Participation, La Trobe University, Victoria. 
[3] Thangaraju, P., and Venkatesan, S. 2019. WHO Ten threats to global health in 2019: antimicrobial resistance. Cukurova Med. J., 44, 1150–1. 
[4] 
Singhal, K., Azizi, S., Tu, T., Mahdavi, S. S., Wei, J., Chung, H. W., et al. 2023. Large language models encode clinical knowledge. Nature, 
620, 7972 (Aug.), 172–80. 

[5] Yao, J. Y., Ning, K. P., Liu, Z. H., Ning, M. N., and Yuan, L. 2023. LLM lies: Hallucinations are not bugs, but features as adversarial 

examples. arXiv [Preprint]. (Oct. 3, 2023) [cited 2025 Mar 31]. Available from: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01469 

[6] Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive 

NLP tasks. In Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 33, 9459–74. 

[7] Kim, J., and Min, M. 2024. From RAG to QA-RAG: Integrating Generative AI for Pharmaceutical Regulatory Compliance Process. arXiv 

preprint arXiv:2402.01717. (Feb. 2024). 

[8] Miao, J., Thongprayoon, C., Suppadungsuk, S., Garcia Valencia, O. A., and Cheungpasitporn, W. 2024. Integrating Retrieval-Augmented 

Generation with Large Language Models in Nephrology: Advancing Practical Applications. Medicina, 60, 3, 445. 

[9] Ge, J., Sun, S., Owens, J., Galvez, V., Gologorskaya, O., Lai, J. C., Pletcher, M. J., and Lai, K. 2023. Development of a Liver Disease-Specific 

Large Language Model Chat Interface using Retrieval Augmented Generation. medRxiv. (2023). 

[10] Al Ghadban, Y., Lu, H. Y., Adavi, U., Sharma, A., Gara, S., Das, N., et al. 2023. Transforming healthcare education: Harnessing large 

language models for frontline health worker capacity building using retrieval-augmented generation. medRxiv [Preprint]. (Dec. 1, 2023) [cited 
2025 Mar 31]; 2023-12. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.01.23299473 

[11] Saba, W., Wendelken, S., and Shanahan, J. 2024. Question-Answering Based Summarization of Electronic Health Records using Retrieval 

Augmented Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01469. (Jan. 2024). 

[12] Zakka, C., Shad, R., Chaurasia, A., Dalal, A. R., Kim, J. L., Moor, M., Fong, R., Phillips, C., Alexander, K., Ashley, E., and Boyd, J. 2024. 

Almanac—retrieval-augmented language models for clinical medicine. NEJM AI, 1, 2, AIoa2300068. 

[13] Javed, M., Khademi, S., Hickman, J., Buttery, J., Clothier, H. and Dimaguila, G.L., 2025. VaxPulse: Monitoring of Online Public Concerns to 

Enhance Post-licensure Vaccine Surveillance. arXiv [preprint] https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.04656. (Jun. 2025). 

6 

 
[14] Javed, M., Dimaguila, G.L., Habibabadi, S.K., Palmer, C. and Buttery, J., 2023. Learning from machines? social bots influence on covid-19 

vaccination-related discussions: 2021 in review. In Proceedings of the 2023 Australasian Computer Science Week (pp. 190-197). 

[15] Chase, H. 2022. LangChain [Computer software]. [cited 2025 Mar 31]. Available from: https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain 
[16] Damodaran, P. 2023. FlashRank, Lightest and Fastest 2nd Stage Reranker for search pipelines (Version 1.0.0) [Computer software]. (Dec. 22, 

2023) [cited 2025 Mar 31]. Available from: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10426927 

[17] Es, S., James, J., Espinosa-Anke, L., and Schockaert, S. 2023. Ragas: Automated evaluation of retrieval augmented generation. arXiv 

[Preprint]. (Sept. 26, 2023) [cited 2025 Mar 31]. Available from: https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15217 

7