5
2
0
2

l
u
J

1
3

]
I

A
.
s
c
[

3
v
6
2
4
7
0
.
7
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

DrugMCTS: a Drug Repositioning Framework Combining
Multi-Agent, RAG and Monte Carlo Tree Search

Zerui Yang1,2

, Yuwei Wan1, Siyu Yan3, Yudai Matsuda1, Tong Xie4, Bram Hoex5, and Linqi Song1,2⋆

1 City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, PR China
2 City University of Hong Kong Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen, PR China
3 The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), Guangzhou PR China
4 GreenDynamics, Sydney, NSW, Australia
5 University of New South Wales, Kensington, NSW, Australia
6

Abstract

Recent advances in large language models have
demonstrated considerable potential in scientific do-
mains such as drug repositioning. However, their ef-
fectiveness remains constrained when reasoning ex-
tends beyond the knowledge acquired during pre-
training. Conventional approaches, such as fine-
tuning or retrieval-augmented generation, face limita-
tions in either imposing high computational overhead
or failing to fully exploit structured scientific data.
To overcome these challenges, we propose DrugM-
CTS, a novel framework that synergistically inte-
grates RAG, multi-agent collaboration, and Monte
Carlo Tree Search for drug repositioning. The frame-
work employs five specialized agents tasked with re-
trieving and analyzing molecular and protein infor-
mation, thereby enabling structured and iterative
reasoning. Extensive experiments on the DrugBank
and KIBA datasets demonstrate that DrugMCTS
achieves substantially higher recall and robustness
compared to both general-purpose LLMs and deep
learning baselines. Our results highlight the impor-
tance of structured reasoning, agent-based collab-
oration, and feedback-driven search mechanisms in
advancing LLM applications for drug repositioning.
Contact: zeruiyang2-c@my.cityu.edu.hk

1 Introduction

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated
remarkable capabilities across a wide range of do-
mains, including question answering, logical reason-
ing, and knowledge-intensive tasks such as mathe-
matics and code generation. These models are in-
creasingly being explored for applications in scientific
fields, particularly in drug discovery [33]. However,
when confronted with problems that lie beyond their

⋆ Corresponding author

pre-training knowledge or inherent reasoning abili-
ties, such as predicting novel drug-target interactions,
their performance may fall short of expectations [38].
As general-purpose large models gain traction
in scientific domains, fine-tuning on domain-specific
datasets has emerged as a common approach [36,27].
However, this method faces several well-recognized
limitations. Fine-tuning is computationally expensive
and typically domain-specific, making it inefficient
and often impractical for extending to new scientific
areas. Furthermore, given the dynamic nature of sci-
entific knowledge, maintaining up-to-date models re-
quires continual retraining, which increases computa-
tional overhead and risks catastrophic forgetting [19].
These challenges hinder the scalability and long-term
utility of fine-tuning in real-world scientific applica-
tions.

To address the drawbacks of fine-tuning, retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as a
promising alternative [35]. By leveraging external
agents to retrieve relevant information from literature
and databases, RAG enhances the reasoning capabil-
ities of LLMs without requiring model updates [3].
This makes it particularly suitable for dynamic do-
mains such as drug discovery.

Despite its advantages, RAG faces notable limita-
tions. Scientific data can be broadly categorized into
structured scientific data and unstructured general-
purpose text [39]. Existing RAG systems often pri-
oritize the latter due to better compatibility with
LLMs [23], overlooking the richness of structured
data such as molecular structures and protein se-
quences. For example, drug-target interaction tasks
information, relying
frequently exclude structural
solely on knowledge graphs or text [14], which com-
promises both prediction reliability and interpretabil-
ity.

Some methods incorporate domain-specific mod-
els to interpret scientific data [11,17], but this rein-
troduces fine-tuning-related limitations. When in-
puts deviate from training distributions, performance

 
 
 
 
 
 
can drop sharply—for instance, drug-target interac-
tion models may lose over 20% accuracy on unseen
molecule-protein pairs [31].

General-purpose data also presents challenges. It
often contains noise or errors [10], and LLMs may
inadvertently discard useful content due to limited
contextual understanding. For instance, long-context
models are known to suffer from the “lost in the mid-
dle” [16] phenomenon (Figure 1), where information
located in the middle of a long input sequence is more
likely to be forgotten or overlooked [16], leading to
incomplete or inaccurate reasoning. Moreover, cur-
rent approaches typically lack feedback loops, treat-
ing drug discovery as a one-shot task rather than an
iterative process [33,4,6], which limits robustness and
adaptability.

Fig. 1: When the document relevant to the query ap-
pears in the middle of the retrieved document se-
quence, the model’s performance can even fall below
that of the baseline closed-book setting [16].

To address the aforementioned limitations, we pro-
pose DrugMCTS, a novel drug repositioning algo-
rithm based on RAG, multi-agent collaboration, and
Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) [2]. DrugMCTS is
designed to overcome the challenges posed by compu-
tationally expensive fine-tuning, underutilization of
structured scientific data, model brittleness in out-of-
distribution scenarios, and the lack of iterative feed-
back mechanisms.

Our system comprises five specialized agents:

– Retrieval Agent: Identifies and gathers struc-
turally similar molecules from external scientific
databases. While this is the first retrieval step

in the pipeline, subsequent agents also incorpo-
rate retrieval mechanisms to augment the model’s
input with task-relevant scientific knowledge.
By leveraging external sources without modify-
ing model parameters, these retrieval-based ac-
tions collectively mitigate the limitations of static
knowledge and the high cost of fine-tuning.

– Molecule-Analysis Agent: Receives a dictio-
nary containing the physicochemical and struc-
tural properties of the query molecule and its can-
didates, obtained from scientific APIs (e.g., RD-
Kit, PubChem). This agent then summarizes the
input into a concise natural language description,
making the information more accessible to LLMs.
– Molecule-Selection Agent: Filters retrieved
molecules based on pharmacophore integrity
and drug-likeness, effectively eliminating low-
relevance or noisy inputs that could compromise
model performance. This filtering step also helps
mitigate the “lost in the middle” phenomenon.
– Interaction-Analysis Agent: Analyzes drug-
interaction mechanisms by extracting
target
structured protein data (e.g., pocket features
from PDB files via PLIP) and enriching it with
natural language summaries from literature. This
transformation enables general LLMs to reason
over biological structures that they cannot na-
tively parse.

– Decision Agent: Integrates all upstream out-
puts—including molecular properties, interaction
analyses, and supporting texts—and makes final
predictions about likely protein targets. It serves
as the final reasoning step informed by the entire
multi-agent pipeline.

Moreover, the incorporation of MCTS enables the
framework to operate with a feedback-driven mecha-
nism, iteratively refining its decision path. This allows
the system to explore multiple reasoning trajectories
and prioritize more promising nodes based on reward
signals, thereby improving both robustness and deci-
sion quality over time.

our

guidance

With the

framework,

the
of
lightweight Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct model [26] achieves
performance surpassing Deepseek-R1 [7], GPT-4o-
mini [9] and domain-specific deep learning models
on benchmark tasks. Notably, this is accomplished
without any domain-specific fine-tuning. We further
conduct ablation studies demonstrating that remov-
ing any component of our pipeline leads to a perfor-
mance drop of 1–10%, underscoring the necessity of
each module. To facilitate future research and ensure
reproducibility, the code and data processing pipeline
for DrugMCTS will be released upon publication at:
https://github.com/yaoge777/DrugMCTS

Our main contributions include:

a. We introduce an end-to-end drug repositioning
framework that enables Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct to
outperform much larger models such as Deepseek-
R1, without requiring any fine-tuned domain-
specific model. The method leverages external
structured and textual knowledge sources to
boost reasoning and decision-making capabilities.
b. By incorporating MCTS, our framework intro-
duces a feedback mechanism that enables itera-
tive refinement of decisions, autonomous filtering
of noisy inputs, and robust identification of high-
value evidence—addressing the lack of adaptabil-
ity in current one-shot inference systems.

c. We propose a systematic data processing pipeline
(Figure 2) that transitions from structured scien-
tific data to hybrid scientific-general data, and fi-
nally to general-purpose language input. This hy-
brid representation exploits the strengths of each
modality, enhances model interpretability, and of-
fers a reusable workflow applicable beyond drug-
target interaction tasks.

2 Method

2.1 Overview of DrugMCTS

Our proposed framework, DrugMCTS, enhances
molecular-protein interaction prediction through a
structured multi-agent system guided by MCTS, as
illustrated in Figure 3 and Appendix Algorithm 1.
Given a query molecule Mqm, DrugMCTS coordi-
nates a sequence of agents to retrieve relevant chem-
ical and biological information, perform structured
analysis, and identify promising protein targets.

Each agent contributes domain-specific reasoning:
retrieving structurally similar molecules, analyzing
molecular properties, filtering irrelevant candidates,
and evaluating interaction potential through struc-
tural and textual evidence. Instead of relying on end-
to-end model predictions, DrugMCTS incrementally
builds reasoning paths, ensuring interpretability and
robustness at every step.

Crucially, we incorporate MCTS as an inference-
time decision mechanism. At each decision point,
multiple hypotheses are generated and evaluated us-
ing the Upper Confidence Bound applied to Trees
(UCT) algorithm (Equation 1) [5], enabling the
framework to balance exploration and exploitation.
This search-guided process allows DrugMCTS to it-
eratively refine its predictions and autonomously fil-
ter low-quality or noisy information without requiring
domain-specific fine-tuning.

By integrating structured data retrieval, expert-
agent
collaboration, and search-based decision-
making, DrugMCTS offers a scalable and inter-
pretable approach for scientific discovery in dynamic
domains such as drug-target interaction.

UCT =

Wi
ni

+ c

(cid:114) ln N
ni

(1)

2.2 MCTS for Drug Repositioning

Given that MCTS is a well-established algorithm
widely adopted and thoroughly explained in various
studies [15], we provide only an overview here. As
shown in Figure 4 and Appendix Algorithm 2, the
MCTS algorithm consists of four main steps: selec-
tion, expansion, simulation, and backpropagation.

In each rollout, the process begins at the root node
and proceeds by selecting a leaf node using the UCT
algorithm. The selected leaf node is then expanded by
generating one or more child nodes. This selection-
expansion cycle continues iteratively until reaching
an end node. Upon reaching this terminal node, a pre-
defined scoring rule is applied to evaluate its quality.
The score is then backpropagated up the tree to up-
date the scores and visit counts of all nodes along the
path. After completing a pre-defined number of roll-
outs, we obtain a series of candidate solutions from
which the final answer is chosen.

2.3 Action Space

The action space refers to the set of possible actions
that can be performed during each expansion phase.
Similar to chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning, these
actions are sequential and interdependent; each sub-
sequent action builds upon the results of the previous
one. Therefore, coordination among different agents
is essential for coherent execution.

Our framework includes six distinct actions corre-
sponding to five specialized agents. Except for the
retrieval agent, which does not invoke any model, all
other agents utilize the same LLM without requiring
additional fine-tuned models.

A1 Retrieval Action. Upon receiving the query
molecule, the Retrieval agent queries databases to
identify molecules structurally similar to the query
molecule. We employ two similarity metrics: the Tan-
imoto coefficient [1] and the cosine similarity based
on the last hidden state computed by ChemBERTa.
For each metric, we retrieve the top-10 most similar
molecules, merge the results, and remove duplicates

Fig. 2: Data processing pipiline of DrugMCTS

to form the initial candidate molecules Mcm. The pro-
teins can interact with Mcm are also retrieved, form-
ing candidate proteins Pcp. These molecules serve as
inputs to the root node of the MCTS.

Since the similarity scores are deterministic, the
resulting molecule pool remains consistent, satisfying
the requirement that the root node must be unique.

simC(Mqm, Mi) =

hqm · hi
∥hqm∥ · ∥hi∥

(2)

Mcm = dedup

(cid:16)

Top10 (simT (Mqm))

∪ Top10 (simC(Mqm))

(cid:17)

(3)

A2 Molecule Analysis Action. Understanding
molecular properties is crucial to predict molecular-
target interactions [38]. While general-purpose LLMs
can perform some analysis using SMILES representa-
tions, their interpretations are often incomplete and
prone to errors, especially when experimental data,
such as hydrophobicity, is required.

To address this limitation, the Molecule Analysis
(MA) agent first utilizes RDKit and PubChemPy
APIs [24] to extract a set of structural and physic-
ochemical properties (Cq,s & Cq,phy) for the query
molecule Mqm by calling RDKit and PubChemPy
APIs. These properties include:

– Structural features: chiral centers, scaffolds, and

functional groups.

– Physicochemical properties: molecular weight,
lipophilicity (logP), polar surface area (PSA), hy-
drogen bond donors/acceptors, rotatable bonds,
and heavy atom counts.

Based on this structured and quantified infor-
mation, the agent then generates a comprehensive
molecular analysis report Rqm.

A3 Molecule Selection Action. Research has
shown that the quality of retrieved information sig-
nificantly impacts the accuracy of model-generated
answers [22]. Excessive irrelevant information can
negatively affect the model’s performance [18]. Al-
though the retrieved molecules share structural sim-
ilarities with the query molecule, they may not nec-
essarily provide useful insights for drug reposition-
ing tasks [14]. Thus, the Molecule Selection (MS)
agent filters the molecule pool, based on structural
similarity to the query molecule, pharmacophore in-
tegrity, and drug-like essentials, to generate refer-
ence molecules Mrm. The reference proteins Prp are
obtained by selecting the proteins that can inter-
act with Mrm from Pcp. To ensure that these ref-
erence molecules are thoroughly characterized, this
action also invokes the A2 Molecule Analysis Ac-
tion. Specifically, the MA agent is called to retrieve
the structural and physicochemical properties (Cc,s
& Cc,phy) of Mcm but without generating reports.

A4 Interaction Analysis Action. In this step,
we aim to analyze potential interactions between the
Mrm and Pcp. A major challenge lies in interpreting

Fig. 3: Illustration of a single rollout in the DrugMCTS framework. The figure demonstrates how agents
sequentially collaborate during one inference trajectory guided by MCTS.

protein structures from amino acid sequences, which
general-purpose LLMs struggle to handle due to their
complexity. To overcome this, we adopt the method-
ology from DrugRealign [29], utilizing Python’s PLIP
library to extract binding pocket information Dbp
from PDB files and present it in textual format. In
contrast to the original tabular representation which
can be difficult for LLMs to parse, we reformat each
entry into a descriptive paragraph to improve inter-
pretability. Additionally, we retrieve relevant scien-
tific literature Lrp from PubMed [30] to provide con-
textual support for interaction analysis by Interaction
Analysis (IA) agent.

A5 Protein Selection Action. At this stage,
the Decision agent synthesizes all available informa-
tion, including the Mqm, Rqm, Mrm, Pcp, Dbp, and
Ria.Based on this integrated knowledge, the agent se-
lects the most promising target protein Ps from the
full list of candidates.

A6 End Action. This action does not involve any
agent invocation. When the model selects the final

protein, the End Action is executed. Upon encoun-
tering an end node, the MCTS algorithm terminates
further expansion, evaluates the end node’s score, and
backpropagates the updated values to all nodes along
the traversal path, concluding the current rollout.

Fig. 4: Example of MCTS for drug repositioning

2.4 Reward Calculation

Predicting molecular-protein binding affinity typi-
cally involves two primary approaches: molecular
docking methods [8] and deep learning-based meth-
ods [31].

Molecular Docking Methods. Molecular dock-
ing methods, such as AutoDock Vina [8], are widely
used but suffer from notable limitations. First, they
require accurate three-dimensional structural infor-
mation of the target proteins, which is often un-
available or unreliable for many biologically rele-
vant molecules. Second, these methods are computa-
tionally intensive, limiting their scalability in large-
scale drug repositioning tasks. Given these limita-
tions, there has been a growing interest in developing
more efficient alternatives.

Deep Learning-Based Methods. Deep learning
models have emerged as a promising solution due to
their superior computational efficiency [32]. However,
their performance is highly dependent on the train-
ing dataset. When predicting samples that deviate
significantly from the training data, the accuracy of
these models can drop by over 20% [31], limiting their
applicability across diverse scenarios.

Self-Consistency Score. To address these chal-
lenges, our work adopts an alternative reward calcula-
tion method known as the self-consistency score [28].
This approach involves querying the model multiple
times with the same question and selecting the most
frequently occurring answer p∗ as the final output.
The frequency of this answer serves as the relative
reward. However, this method introduces a potential
issue: if all candidate proteins in one rollout exhibit
strong binding affinity with the query molecule, while
in another rollout none do, the calculated relative
rewards could still be similar despite the stark dif-
ferences in actual binding affinities. To mitigate this
limitation, we introduce an absolute reward mecha-
nism.

Absolute Reward. The absolute reward is com-
puted by inputting the Ps, Dbp, Lrp, Mqm, and Rqm
into a decision-making model. This model evaluates
whether there is a significant interaction between the
protein and the query molecule. The frequency of af-
firmative responses (”yes”) is then used as the abso-
lute reward.

Final Reward Calculation. The final reward for
each rollout is calculated as the average of the rela-
tive reward and the absolute reward. This combined
approach ensures that both the consistency and the
strength of the predicted interactions are taken into
account, providing a more robust evaluation metric.

Rrelative(p∗) =

Number of times p∗ is selected
Total number of selections

(4)

Rabsolute(p∗) =

Number of ”yes” responses
k

Rfinal(p∗) =

Rrelative(p∗) + Rabsolute(p∗)
2

(5)

(6)

3 Experiments

3.1 Datasets and Metrics

We utilized two datasets, DrugBank [12] and
KIBA [25], which were processed to include a total
of 788 entries from DrugBank and 626 entries from
KIBA. Each entry consists of a molecule as input and
its corresponding interacting proteins as output. The
number of ground truth interactions per entry varies.
To evaluate model performance, we used recall, de-
fined as the ratio of correctly predicted proteins to
the total number of ground truth proteins. The de-
tailed information of data processing pipeline can be
found in Appendix Section A.1

Recall =

|{proteins predicted correctly}|
|{all ground truth proteins}|

(7)

3.2 Settings

we

the

phase,

retrieval

employed
For
ESM2 t33 650M UR50D to compute cosine sim-
ilarity. For all other
inference stages, we used
Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct. Specifically, each search pro-
cess involved 12 rounds of rollouts. Except for the
protein selection and end actions, which generate
only one node during expansion, all other actions
generated four nodes with distinct answers per
expansion. The temperature was set to 0.8. Both
relative and absolute rewards were computed by
generating four responses per rollout, also with a
temperature of 0.8.

3.3 Baselines

We established three sets of baselines to compare our
model’s performance:

General Models. (GM) We selected GPT-4o-
mini and Deepseek-R1 as general-purpose models. In
this group, we provided the models with minimal in-
formation: the SMILES representation of the query

molecule, reference molecules, and candidate proteins
along with their pocket types.

General Models with RAG. (GM + RAG)
Many existing studies on drug repositioning using
LLMs either employ divergent methodological for-
mulations or are not open-sourced, which compli-
cates comparative evaluation. Our approach adopts
the framework of the DrugReAlign [29] method, with
modifications and enhancements tailored to our spe-
cific formulation. To ensure equitable comparison, we
incorporate not only protein pocket information but
also incorporate Cq,s and Cq,phy as additional fea-
tures. The models used in this group remained GPT-
4o-mini and Deepseek-R1.

Deep Learning Models.

(DL Models)
We trained four deep learning models: Atten-
tionDTA [37], GraphDTA [21], DeepConv DTI [13],
and Perceiver CPI [20], on both DrugBank and
KIBA datasets. We extracted data involving the
query molecules as test sets and used the remaining
data for training. All
four models achieved over
70% accuracy on the test sets. During testing, we
applied majority voting to select the final answer
by averaging the scores from the four models and
choosing the top-k proteins, where k corresponds to
the length of the ground truth.

3.4 Results

The experimental results (Table 1) indicate that
general-purpose LLMs (GPT-4o-mini and Deepseek-
R1) achieved relatively low recall scores of only
12.59%–16.19% on the DrugBank dataset when op-
erating in a zero-shot setting. However, when in-
corporating molecular structural features and chem-
ical properties via RAG-based prompting, model
performance decreased, with GPT-4o-mini dropping
to 15.19% and Deepseek-R1 significantly falling to
12.59%. This suggests that the inclusion of poten-
tially irrelevant or misleading information through
retrieval can negatively impact the reasoning capa-
bilities of general-purpose LLMs.

Among the deep learning baselines, the ensem-
ble of four specialized models (AttentionDTI, GIN-
ConvNet, DeepConv DTI, Perceiver CPI) achieved
a recall score of 23.64%, representing an 84% im-
provement over the best-performing general-purpose
model. On the KIBA dataset, the same ensemble at-
tained a recall score of 26.45%, further demonstrating
its effectiveness in capturing drug-target interactions.
Our proposed method, DrugMCTS, significantly
outperformed all baseline approaches. Using a base
TopK strategy, DrugMCTS achieved a recall of
44.66% on DrugBank and 42.24% on KIBA. This

represents improvements of approximately 88.9% and
31.7% over the best deep learning baselines, respec-
tively. Furthermore, our dynamic adjustment strat-
egy (TopK+3) boosted performance to 55.34% on
DrugBank and 49.24% on KIBA, marking maximum
improvements of 330% and 91.4% over the general-
purpose models. It is worth noting that although the
other three methods showed improved performance
on the KIBA dataset, our method exhibited a slight
drop. However, according to Appendix Table 2, this
apparent improvement in other baseline settings is
largely due to an increased ratio of ground truth can-
didates among the total options. As shown in Ap-
pendix Table 1, compared to DrugBank, the KIBA
dataset contains a larger number of candidate pro-
teins per drug, which increases the difficulty of se-
lecting the correct Pcp after molecule selection. This
observation indirectly highlights the importance of
effective filtering mechanisms.

These results strongly underscore the superiority of
dynamic decision-making mechanisms, such as those
used in DrugMCTS, over traditional static prediction
methods like deep learning models. They also high-
light the limitations of general-purpose large models
in zero-shot settings for drug repositioning tasks, es-
pecially when retrieval-augmented prompting intro-
duces noise or irrelevant context. This further empha-
sizes the importance of structured reasoning, domain-
specific knowledge integration, and information filter-
ing in such applications.

Furthermore, to demonstrate the interpretability
and transparency of our approach, we provide a de-
tailed case study in the Appendix Section A.2. It illus-
trates how the model predicts an interaction between
Equol and the CXC chemokine receptor 3, including
the complete step-by-step reasoning process during a
specific MCTS rollout.

4 Ablation Studies

4.1 Settings

In our ablation studies, we aim to investigate several
key aspects:

– Whether the MCTS algorithm can improve model

accuracy.

– The effectiveness of our proposed data processing
pipelines for scientific data, a hybrid of scientific
and general data, and general data.

– The efficacy of the combined relative and absolute

reward calculation method.

To address these questions, we conducted the follow-
ing experiments:

Table 1: Performance comparison on DrugBank and KIBA datasets

Model

Size Dynamic Update DrugBank KIBA

General Models (GM)
GPT-4o-mini
Deepseek-R1

GM + RAG
GPT-4o-mini
Deepseek-R1

DL Models
DL models

∼8B
37Ba

∼8B
37Ba

8M-12M

DrugMCTS (Ours)
Selection = GT count
Selection = GT + 3

7B
7B

×
×

✓
✓

×

✓
✓

0.1552
0.1619

0.2580
0.2645

0.1519
0.1259

0.2252
0.2173

0.2364

0.3216

0.4466
0.5534

0.4224
0.4924

aActivation-aware model size. GT = Ground Truth count. Dynamic update: ✓ Yes, × No.

– S1 Baseline Setup. Provide only the query
molecule, all proteins in the protein pool, and the
types of their pocket. Do not use the MCTS al-
gorithm.

– S2 Enhanced Information (EI) Setup. On
top of the baseline setup, add the detailed pock-
ets information and literature information for all
proteins and structural and chemical properties
of the query molecule.

– S3 Molecule Analysis Exclusion (MAE).
Conduct the MCTS process while excluding the
molecule analysis action.

– S4 Interaction Analysis Exclusion (IAE).
Conduct the MCTS process while excluding the
interaction analysis action.

– S5 Dual Exclusion (DE). Conduct the MCTS
process while excluding both the molecule analy-
sis and interaction analysis actions.

– S6 Relative Reward (RR) Only. During the
MCTS process, compute only the relative rewards
without considering the absolute rewards.

Protein Selection Action, instead of a single node
used in the full pipeline.

4.2 Ablation Studies Results

The ablation study results (Table 2) clearly demon-
strate the effectiveness of our proposed framework
components. First, comparing S1 (Baseline Setup)
with S2 (Enhanced Information Setup) shows that
providing richer contextual information, including de-
tailed pocket features, literature descriptions, struc-
tural and chemical properties, does improve perfor-
mance to some extent (e.g., from 12.85% to 15.86% on
DrugBank). However, the most significant improve-
ment is observed when the MCTS algorithm is intro-
duced in combination with these enhancements. Ex-
perimental settings that incorporate MCTS (S3–S6
and Final Result) consistently achieve much higher
performance than S1 or S2, indicating that while
richer input representations are beneficial, it is the
MCTS-based reasoning process that plays the cen-
tral role in boosting model accuracy.

Since excluding certain actions in MCTS can occa-
sionally reduce the number of generated nodes, some-
times below the number of ground-truth targets, we
ensure fair comparison by setting the MCTS-based
baselines to generate four candidate nodes during the

Second, by analyzing S3 (Molecule Analysis Ex-
clusion), S4 (Interaction Analysis Exclusion), and S5
(Dual Exclusion), we observe a consistent drop in per-
formance when either or both of the analysis modules
are removed. For instance, on the DrugBank dataset,

Table 2: Performance comparison on DrugBank and KIBA datasets using Qwen7b (Top-k/Top-k+3 accu-
racy).

Setup

S1 Baseline S2 EI

S3 MAE

S4 IAE

S5 DE

S6 RR

DrugMCTS

DrugBank
KIBA

0.1285
0.2284

0.1586 0.3879/0.4677 0.3946/0.5119 0.3472/0.3617 0.4320/0.5527 0.4466/0.5534
0.2452 0.3772/0.4352 0.3846/0.4491 0.3189/0.3264 0.4193/0.4861 0.4224/0.4924

removing molecule analysis alone leads to a decrease
from 44.66% (Final Result) to 38.79%, while remov-
ing interaction analysis results in a drop to 39.46%.
The dual exclusion further reduces performance to
34.72%, demonstrating that each data processing step
contributes meaningfully to the overall effectiveness
of the system. This supports our hypothesis that the
proposed hybrid data processing pipeline, incorporat-
ing both molecular and interaction-level analyses, is
essential for capturing comprehensive contextual in-
formation.

Third, regarding the reward mechanism, the com-
parison between S6 (Relative Reward Only) and the
full reward setting (Final Result) shows that the com-
bined use of relative and absolute rewards does not
lead to a significant improvement in performance.
One possible explanation is that prior steps, includ-
ing candidate protein and molecule selection, have
already filtered out most irrelevant options,
leav-
ing a refined set of high-quality reference proteins.
As a result, the likelihood of encountering scenarios
where none of the candidates interact with the query
molecule becomes rare, reducing the added value of
the absolute reward component.

In summary, these findings confirm the importance
of the MCTS algorithm, the multi-step data process-
ing pipeline, and the overall design of the retrieval-
augmented reasoning framework in achieving strong
performance in molecular-target interaction predic-
tion.

on the KIBA dataset, while other scenarios show ei-
ther marginal or even negative improvements. Con-
sequently, to balance computational cost and model
performance, we ultimately adopt rollout=12 for our
experiments. Compared to baseline models, our ap-
proach not only achieves the highest recall scores
but also demonstrates superior cost efficiency, as ev-
idenced by its position on the Pareto front.

5 Conclusion

Our DrugMCTS framework revolutionizes drug repo-
sitioning by integrating multi-agent collaboration
(five specialized agents), hybrid data processing (sci-
entific → hybrid → general), and MCTS to enable the
lightweight Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct model to outper-
form Deepseek-R1 by more than 20% recall on Drug-
Bank/KIBA datasets. The system achieves 55.34%
recall via dynamic Top-K+3 selection, validated by
1,221 experimental interactions and case studies like
Equol-CXCR3 binding (docking score: -8.4 kcal/mol).
This work establishes a template for LLM-powered
scientific discovery beyond drug-target prediction.

6 Limitations

While DrugMCTS demonstrates significant improve-
ments over baseline models, several limitations high-
light opportunities for further optimization:

4.3 Computation Overhead Results

For inference time scaling, the discussion typically re-
volves around two key aspects: the trade-off between
model performance improvement and additional com-
putational overhead. Therefore, in this section, we
first analyze the impact of different rollout num-
bers on model performance and then compare the
performance-overhead profile with baseline models.

Our analysis (Figure 5 and Figure 6) reveals that
when the number of rollouts increases from 8 to 12,
both Top-K and Top-K+3 metrics exhibit signifi-
cant improvements across the two datasets. However,
further increasing the rollout count from 12 to 24
only yields a notable gain in the Top-K+3 metric

– Despite achieving more than 20% recall gains over
Deepseek-R1 (Table 1), the absolute performance
(55.34% recall) suggests untapped optimization
potential. The plateau in gains beyond 12 rollouts
indicates diminishing returns from current MCTS
configurations.

– Current predictions primarily leverage PDB-
derived binding pocket data (Section 2.4), omit-
ting higher-order biological context. Future work
may augment the framework with knowledge
graph or Pathway activation score.

– The combined relative/absolute reward system
(Eq. 6) yields only around 1% improvement over
relative-only rewards, suggesting the necessities
of a more effective reward system.

References

1. D´avid Bajusz, Anita R´acz, and K´aroly H´eberger.
Why is tanimoto index an appropriate choice for
fingerprint-based similarity calculations? Journal of
cheminformatics, 7:1–13, 2015.

2. Guillaume Maurice Jean-Bernard Chaslot Chaslot.

Monte-carlo tree search. 2010.

3. Xinhao Che, Yujing Zhao, Qilei Liu, Fang Yu, Hanyu
Gao, and Lei Zhang. Csstep: Step-by-step exploration
of the chemical space of drug molecules via multi-
agent and multi-stage reinforcement learning. Chem-
ical Engineering Science, page 122048, 2025.

4. Yiqun Chen, Lingyong Yan, Weiwei Sun, Xinyu
Ma, Yi Zhang, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, Yim-
ing Yang, and Jiaxin Mao.
Improving retrieval-
augmented generation through multi-agent reinforce-
ment learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.15228,
2025.

5. Adrien Cou¨etoux, Jean-Baptiste Hoock, Nataliya
Sokolovska, Olivier Teytaud, and Nicolas Bonnard.
Continuous upper confidence trees. In Learning and
Intelligent Optimization: 5th International Confer-
ence, LION 5, Rome, Italy, January 17-21, 2011. Se-
lected Papers 5, pages 433–445. Springer, 2011.

6. Carl Edwards, Ziqing Lu, Ehsan Hajiramezanali,
Tommaso Biancalani, Heng Ji, and Gabriele Scalia.
Molcap-arena: A comprehensive captioning bench-
mark on language-enhanced molecular property pre-
diction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00737, 2024.
7. Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao
Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong
Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1: Incen-
tivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948, 2025.
8. Ruth Huey, Garrett M Morris, Stefano Forli, et al.
Using autodock 4 and autodock vina with autodock-
tools: a tutorial. The Scripps Research Institute
Molecular Graphics Laboratory, 10550(92037):1000,
2012.

9. Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam
Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Os-
trow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Rad-
ford, et al. Gpt-4o system card.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.

10. Jan Hutter, David Rau, Maarten Marx, and Jaap
Kamps. Lost but not only in the middle: Positional
bias in retrieval augmented generation. In European
Conference on Information Retrieval, pages 247–261.
Springer, 2025.

11. Yoshitaka Inoue, Tianci Song, Xinling Wang, Au-
gustin Luna, and Tianfan Fu. Drugagent: Multi-agent
large language model-based reasoning for drug-target
interaction prediction. In ICLR 2025 Workshop on
Machine Learning for Genomics Explorations, 2025.
12. Craig Knox, Mike Wilson, Christen M Klinger, Mark
Franklin, Eponine Oler, Alex Wilson, Allison Pon,
Jordan Cox, Na Eun Chin, Seth A Strawbridge, et al.
Drugbank 6.0: the drugbank knowledgebase for 2024.
Nucleic acids research, 52(D1):D1265–D1275, 2024.

13. Ingoo Lee, Jongsoo Keum, and Hojung Nam.
Deepconv-dti: Prediction of drug-target
interac-
tions via deep learning with convolution on pro-
tein sequences.
biology,
15(6):e1007129, 2019.

PLoS computational

14. Namkyeong Lee, Edward De Brouwer, Ehsan Haji-
ramezanali, Tommaso Biancalani, Chanyoung Park,
and Gabriele Scalia. Rag-enhanced collaborative
llm agents for drug discovery.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.17506, 2025.

15. Boyan Li, Jiayi Zhang, Ju Fan, Yanwei Xu, Chong
Chen, Nan Tang, and Yuyu Luo. Alpha-sql: Zero-
shot text-to-sql using monte carlo tree search. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2502.17248, 2025.

16. Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-
jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy
Liang. Lost in the middle: How language models
use long contexts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.03172,
2023.

17. Sizhe Liu, Yizhou Lu, Siyu Chen, Xiyang Hu, Jieyu
Zhao, Yingzhou Lu, and Yue Zhao. Drugagent:
Automating ai-aided drug discovery programming
through llm multi-agent collaboration. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.15692, 2024.

18. Kun Luo, Zheng Liu, Peitian Zhang, Hongjin Qian,
Jun Zhao, and Kang Liu. Does rag really per-
form bad for long-context processing? arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.11444, 2025.

19. Cuong V Nguyen, Alessandro Achille, Michael Lam,
Tal Hassner, Vijay Mahadevan, and Stefano Soatto.
Toward understanding catastrophic forgetting in con-
tinual
arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.01091,
2019.

learning.

20. Ngoc-Quang Nguyen, Gwanghoon Jang, Hajung
Kim, and Jaewoo Kang. Perceiver cpi: a nested cross-
attention network for compound–protein interaction
prediction. Bioinformatics, 39(1):btac731, 2023.
21. Thin Nguyen, Hang Le, Thomas P Quinn, Tri
Nguyen, Thuc Duy Le, and Svetha Venkatesh.
Graphdta: predicting drug–target binding affin-
ity with graph neural networks. Bioinformatics,
37(8):1140–1147, 2021.

22. Tolga S¸akar and Hakan Emekci. Maximizing rag effi-
ciency: A comparative analysis of rag methods. Nat-
ural Language Processing, 31(1):1–25, 2025.

23. Kevin Song, Andrew Trotter, and Jake Y Chen. Llm
agent swarm for hypothesis-driven drug discovery.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.17967, 2025.
24. Matt Swain. Pubchempy documentation.

In Pub-

ChemPy documentation. 2014.

25. Jing Tang, Agnieszka Szwajda, Sushil Shakyawar,
Tao Xu, Petteri Hintsanen, Krister Wennerberg, and
Tero Aittokallio. Making sense of large-scale kinase
inhibitor bioactivity data sets: a comparative and in-
tegrative analysis. Journal of chemical information
and modeling, 54(3):735–743, 2014.

26. Qwen Team. Qwen2 technical report. arXiv preprint

arXiv:2412.15115, 2024.

27. Joren Van Herck, Mar´ıa Victoria Gil, Kevin Maik
Jablonka, Alex Abrudan, Andy S Anker, Mehrdad

Asgari, Ben Blaiszik, Antonio Buffo, Leander Choud-
hury, Clemence Corminboeuf, et al. Assessment of
fine-tuned large language models for real-world chem-
istry and material science applications. Chemical sci-
ence, 16(2):670–684, 2025.

39. Yizhen Zheng, Huan Yee Koh, Maddie Yang, Li Li,
Lauren T May, Geoffrey I Webb, Shirui Pan, and
George Church. Large language models in drug dis-
covery and development: From disease mechanisms to
clinical trials. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.04481, 2024.

28. Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc
Le, Ed Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery,
and Denny Zhou. Self-consistency improves chain of
thought reasoning in language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.11171, 2022.

29. Jinhang Wei, Linlin Zhuo, Xiangzheng Fu, XiangXi-
ang Zeng, Li Wang, Quan Zou, and Dongsheng Cao.
Drugrealign: a multisource prompt framework for
drug repurposing based on large language models.
BMC biology, 22(1):226, 2024.

30. Jacob White. Pubmed 2.0. Medical reference services

quarterly, 39(4):382–387, 2020.

31. Zerui Yang, Yinqiao Li, Yudai Matsuda, and Linqi
Song. mhmg-dti: A drug-target interaction prediction
framework combining modified hierarchical molecular
graphs and improved convolutional block attention
module.
In Trends and Applications in Knowledge
Discovery and Data Mining: PAKDD 2025 Work-
shops, ADUR, FairPC, GLFM, PM4B and RAFDA,
Sydney, NSW, Australia, June 10–13, 2025, Proceed-
ings, volume 15835, page 191. Springer Nature, 2025.
32. Zerui Yang, Wei Shao, Yudai Matsuda, and Linqi
Song. iresnetdm: An interpretable deep learning ap-
proach for four types of dna methylation modification
prediction. Computational and Structural Biotechnol-
ogy Journal, 23:4214–4221, 2024.

33. Geyan Ye, Xibao Cai, Houtim Lai, Xing Wang, Jun-
hong Huang, Longyue Wang, Wei Liu, and Xiangx-
iang Zeng. Drugassist: A large language model for
molecule optimization. Briefings in Bioinformatics,
26(1):bbae693, 2025.

34. Shuguang Yuan, HC Stephen Chan, and Zhenquan
Hu. Using pymol as a platform for computational
drug design. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Com-
putational Molecular Science, 7(2):e1298, 2017.
35. Peidong Zhang, Xingang Peng, Rong Han, Ting
Chen, and Jianzhu Ma. Rag2mol: Structure-based
drug design based on retrieval augmented generation.
Briefings in Bioinformatics, 26(3):bbaf265, 2025.
36. Wei Zhang, Qinggong Wang, Xiangtai Kong, Ji-
acheng Xiong, Shengkun Ni, Duanhua Cao, Buying
Niu, Mingan Chen, Yameng Li, Runze Zhang, et al.
Fine-tuning large language models for chemical text
mining. Chemical Science, 15(27):10600–10611, 2024.
37. Qichang Zhao, Fen Xiao, Mengyun Yang, Yaohang Li,
and Jianxin Wang. Attentiondta: prediction of drug–
target binding affinity using attention model. In 2019
IEEE international conference on bioinformatics and
biomedicine (BIBM), pages 64–69. IEEE, 2019.
38. Yizhen Zheng, Huan Yee Koh, Jiaxin Ju, Anh TN
Nguyen, Lauren T May, Geoffrey I Webb, and Shirui
Pan. Large language models for scientific discovery
in molecular property prediction. Nature Machine
Intelligence, pages 1–11, 2025.

A Appendix

Algorithm 1 A single MCTS rollout within the DrugMCTS framework.

Require: Query molecule Mqm
Ensure: Selected protein Ps, final reward Rfinal(p∗)
1: // A1 Retrieval Action
2: Compute Tanimoto and ChemBERTa cosine similarities
3: Mcm ← dedup(Top10(simT ) ∪ Top10(simC ))
4: Pcp ← Proteins interacting with Mcm
5: // A2 Molecule Analysis Action
6: (Cq,s, Cq,phy) ← RDKit+PubChem(Mqm)
7: Rqm ← Generate textual summary from (Cq,s, Cq,phy)
8: // A3 Molecule Selection Action
9: For all m ∈ Mcm: extract (Cc,s, Cc,phy) using MA agent
10: Mrm ← MS Agent(Mqm, Rqm, Mcm, Cc,s, Cc,phy)
11: Prp ← Proteins in Pcp interacting with Mrm
12: // A4 Interaction Analysis Action
13: Dbp ← Extract pockets from PDBs via PLIP
14: Lrp ← Retrieve protein literature from PubMed
15: Ria ← IA Agent(Mrm, Prp, Dbp, Lrp)
16: // A5 Protein Selection Action
17: Ps ← Decision Agent(Mqm, Rqm, Mrm, Prp, Dbp, Ria)
18: // A6 End Action
19: Perform backpropagation in MCTS from end node
20: // Reward Calculation
21: Query model k times to get selections {p(1), . . . , p(k)}
22: p∗ ← most frequently selected candidate
23: Rrelative(p∗) ← #times p∗ is selected
24: Feed (Ps, Dbp, Lrp, Mqm, Rqm) to decision model k times
25: Rabsolute(p∗) ← #‘yes’ responses
26: Return: Ps, Rfinal(p∗) = Rrelative(p∗)+Rabsolute(p∗)

k

k

2

Algorithm 2 MCTS for DrugMCTS

Require: Query molecule Mqm, number of simulations N
Ensure: Selected protein Ps
1: Initialize root node s0 with Mqm
2: for i = 1 to N do
3:
4:
5:
6:
7: end for
8: return Ps ← BestChild(s0) based on average reward

sleaf ← Select(s0) using UCT
schild ← Expand(sleaf)
Ri ← Rollout(schild)
Backpropagate reward Ri to update tree

▷ See Algorithm 1

A.1 Dataset Construction

Experimental Dataset. We first extracted all molecules from the original dataset and computed both
Tanimoto similarity and cosine similarity between each pair. For each molecule, we selected the top 10 most
similar molecules based on each metric, merged the results, and removed duplicates to form the candidate

molecule set Mcm. Each unique query molecule paired with its corresponding Mcm constitutes one problem
instance. These problem instances were further filtered according to the following criteria:

– For each query molecule, the number of associated interacting proteins must be between 2 and 10.
– For each candidate molecule in Mcm, the number of associated interacting proteins must be between 2

and 4.

– The total number of candidate molecules per query must not exceed 15.

Table 3: Experimental Dataset Statistics

Dataset

Processed Points All Proteins Ground Truth Unique Molecules All Molecules

DrugBank
KIBA

788
626

22 508
23 849

1595
1664

1304
752

7717
6219

We then extracted all proteins that interact with any molecule in Mcm, denoted as Pcp (as mentioned
in Section 2.4). Additionally, we collected all proteins that directly interact with the query molecule. The
intersection of these two protein sets was defined as the ground truth set. The ground truth set must satisfy
the following constraints:

– Its size must be between 1 and 5.
– Its size must not exceed 70% of the size of the candidate protein set.

Baseline Dataset. This dataset is derived from the Experimental Dataset, with the following modifica-

tions:

– Only the query molecules, the candidate protein set Pcp, and the ground truth set are retained.
– All candidate molecules Mcm are removed.

Table 4: Baseline Dataset Statistics

Dataset

DB
KIBA

Ground Truth

All Proteins

Ratio (%)

1595
1664

14 654
10 593

10.88
15.71

Deep Learning Dataset. From the original dataset, we extracted all data instances involving the query
molecules from the Experimental Dataset to form the test set. The remaining data were used as the training
set.

A.2 Case Study

We manually selected a molecular-protein interaction with the highest self-consistency score that has never
been previously reported: Equol (DrugBank ID: DB11674) and CXC chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3, PDB
ID: 8K2W). The binding affinity predicted by AutoDock Vina was -8.4 kcal/mol, indicating a strong potential
interaction between the two. Visualization using PyMOL [34] revealed that Equol can bind within one of
the binding pockets of CXCR3 and form hydrogen bonds, as evidenced by the continuous red dots in the
lower-right corner of Appendix Figure 7(b). This observation is consistent with the reasoning generated by
the large language model during the molecule analysis, protein selection, and absolute reward calculation
stages, thereby validating the effectiveness of our framework.

(a)

(b)

Fig. 5: Number of rollouts vs Recall score on (a) DrugBank and (b) KIBA dataset

(a)

(b)

Fig. 6: Number of tokens vs Recall score on (a) DrugBank and (b) KIBA dataset

Table 5: Deep Learning Dataset Statistics

Dataset Split Negative Positive Total

DrugBank

KIBA

Train
Test

Train
Test

14,787
1,960

62,553
31,643

12,428 27,215
4,111 6,071

17,350 79,903
4,804 36,447

(a)

(b)

Fig. 7: Protein-ligand docking results between (a) global binding site overview and (b) detailed interaction
view, computed by AutoDock Vina with default scoring function and visualized using PyMOL.

Fig. 8: Answers generated by the model