You Don’t Need Pre-built Graphs for RAG:
Retrieval Augmented Generation with Adaptive Reasoning Structures

Shengyuan Chen*, Chuang Zhou∗, Zheng Yuan, Qinggang Zhang†, Zeyang Cui, Hao Chen, Yilin
Xiao, Jiannong Cao, Xiao Huang
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
{sheng-yuan.chen, qinggang.zhang, jiannong.cao, xiao.huang}@polyu.edu.hk,
{chuang-qgzj, yzheng.yuan, ze-yang.cui, yilin.xiao}@connect.polyu.hk, sundaychenhao@gmail.com

5
2
0
2

v
o
N
7
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
5
0
1
6
0
.
8
0
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) often suffer from halluci-
nation, generating factually incorrect statements when han-
dling questions beyond their knowledge and perception.
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) addresses this by
retrieving query-relevant contexts from knowledge bases
to support LLM reasoning. Recent advances leverage pre-
constructed graphs to capture the relational connections
among distributed documents, showing remarkable perfor-
mance in complex tasks. However, existing Graph-based
RAG (GraphRAG) methods rely on a costly process to trans-
form the corpus into a graph, introducing overwhelming to-
ken cost and update latency. Moreover, real-world queries
vary in type and complexity, requiring different logic struc-
tures for accurate reasoning. The pre-built graph may not
align with these required structures, resulting in ineffective
knowledge retrieval. To this end, we propose a Logic-aware
Retrieval-Augmented Generation framework (LogicRAG)
that dynamically extracts reasoning structures at inference
time to guide adaptive retrieval without any pre-built graph.
LogicRAG begins by decomposing the input query into a set
of subproblems and constructing a directed acyclic graph to
model the logical dependencies among them. To support co-
herent multi-step reasoning, LogicRAG then lin- earizes the
graph using topological sort, so that subproblems can be ad-
dressed in a logically consistent order. Besides, LogicRAG
applies graph pruning to reduce redundant retrieval and uses
context pruning to filter irrelevant context, significantly re-
ducing the overall token cost. Extensive experiments demon-
strate that LogicRAG achieves both superior performance and
efficiency compared to state-of-the-art baselines.

Code — https://github.com/chensyCN/LogicRAG
Extended version — https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.06105

Introduction
Large language models (LLMs), like Claude (Anthropic
2024) and ChatGPT (OpenAI 2023), have shown remark-
able ability in a wide range of tasks like complex reason-
ing (Chen et al. 2024c; Zhou et al. 2025c,b; Hong et al.
2024, 2025), question answering (Khashabi et al. 2020), and
social analysis (Lu et al. 2021). However, these foundation
models frequently struggle with domain-specific tasks, of-
ten producing hallucinations or inaccurate responses when

*Equal contribution. †Corresponding author.

Figure 1: Token and runtime cost of the graph construction
process of graph-based RAG methods on 2WikiMQA.

handling knowledge-intensive queries (Huang et al. 2023;
Fang et al. 2025, 2024). To mitigate these issues, retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) (Gao et al. 2023; Lewis et al.
2020; Zhang et al. 2025a) emerges as a promising frame-
work that enhances LLMs by retrieving query-relevant con-
texts from external knowledge bases.

Real-world RAG systems often face significant chal-
lenges when handling large-scale, unstructured domain cor-
pora (Peng et al. 2024; Zhang et al. 2025b). Documents
sourced from research papers, textbooks, or technical reports
vary widely in reliability and completeness (Guo et al. 2025;
Zhong et al. 2024; Wu et al. 2025), and the retrieved infor-
mation is often complex and disorganized, as domain knowl-
edge is typically scattered across multiple sources without
clear dependencies (Sun et al. 2024; Ma et al. 2024). To
manage this complexity, RAG systems commonly segment
documents into smaller chunks for indexing (Borgeaud et al.
2022; Izacard et al. 2023; Jiang et al. 2023). This approach,
however, sacrifices critical contextual information, leading
to reduced retrieval accuracy and limited capability for com-
plex reasoning tasks, particularly those requiring multi-hop
reasoning across interconnected concepts.

To address this, recent advances (Zhang et al. 2024; Xi-
ang et al. 2025; Li et al. 2023a; Zhou et al. 2025d) leverage
pre-constructed graphs to capture the relational connections
among distributed documents, showing remarkable perfor-
mance in complex tasks. The typical graph-based RAG
(GraphRAG) approaches like Microsoft GraphRAG (Edge
et al. 2024) utilize hierarchical community-based search
and combine local and global querying to enhance response
quality. Similarly HippoRAG (Guti´errez et al. 2024) lever-

HippoRAGRAPTORLightRAGGraphRAG1234Token Count×107Prompt TokensCompletion TokensRuntime101102Runtime (min) 
 
 
 
 
 
ages PageRank-inspired algorithms to prioritize highly rel-
evant nodes in memory-augmented retrieval for enhanced
contextual coherence, RAPTOR (Sarthi et al. 2024) uses
recursive abstractive processing for hierarchical text repre-
sentation, and KGP (Wang et al. 2024) constructs domain-
specific knowledge graphs with probabilistic reasoning to
reduce noise. LinearRAG (Zhuang et al. 2025) explores
relation-free graph construction, eliminating LLM token
costs and improve robust graphRAG with elegant bipartite
graphs. These GraphRAG methods excel in handling multi-
hop queries by providing structured contextual depth.

Despite recent advances, GraphRAG systems still face
critical limitations in real-world scenarios. (i) Efficiency is-
sues. Existing GraphRAG models rely on a costly process to
transform the corpus into a graph, introducing overwhelm-
ing token cost and update latency as shown in Figure 1. It
is hard to generalize to practical scenarios where knowl-
edge bases are large-scale or dynamically evolving (Edge
et al. 2024). (ii) Low quality of the pre-built graph. Exist-
ing methods leverage LLMs to automatically build the graph
without any guidance, which may introduce irrelevant or
redundant information, leading to inefficiencies in both re-
trieval and reasoning (Guo et al. 2024). (iii) Lack of flexibil-
ity. Real-world queries vary in type and complexity, requir-
ing different logic structures for accurate reasoning (Peng
et al. 2024). The pre-built graph may not align with these
required structures, resulting in ineffective knowledge re-
trieval. These challenges highlight the need for a more adap-
tive and efficient approach.

To this end, we propose LogicRAG, which dynamically
extracts reasoning structures at inference time to guide adap-
tive retrieval without any pre-constructed graph. Specifi-
cally, LogicRAG begins by decomposing the input query
into a set of subproblems and constructing a directed acyclic
graph (DAG) to model the logical dependencies among
them. This structured representation enables adaptive plan-
ning of the retrieval process by identifying which evidence
chunks are logically connected to each subproblem. To sup-
port coherent multi-step reasoning, LogicRAG then lin-
earizes the graph using topological sort, so that subproblems
can be addressed in a logically consistent order. To further
improve efficiency without compromising performance, the
model applies graph pruning to reduce redundant retrieval
and uses context pruning to filter irrelevant context, signifi-
cantly reducing the overall token cost.

Our contributions are summarized as follows:

• We identify the limitations of pre-built graphs used in
existing GraphRAG models, and propose LogicRAG,
a novel framework that dynamically extracts reasoning
structures at inference time to guide adaptive retrieval
without any pre-built graph.

• We model query logical dependencies with a directed
acyclic graph, offering a principled and universal mod-
eling of reasoning structure.

• We enable efficient reasoning by graph reasoning lin-

earization and context and graph pruning.

• Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets show that
LogicRAG achieves both superior performance and effi-

ciency compared to state-of-the-art baselines.

Problem Statement
Given an input query Q, retrieval-augmented generation
aims to produce an answer A by retrieving relevant context
C from an external knowledge corpus K and generating a
response using a language model. Formally:

A = fRAG(Q, C),

C = R(Q).

The key in a RAG system is the relevance of the retrieved
context to the query. While direct semantic matching is of-
ten sufficient for simple fact retrieval tasks, it becomes inad-
equate for complex queries that require assembling multiple
pieces of supporting knowledge. These pieces are often log-
ically interconnected and must be retrieved and composed in
a way that supports coherent reasoning. As such, the prob-
lem is to identify and retrieve a structured set of relevant
contexts from K that collectively address the query’s under-
lying information needs. This requires reasoning over both
the content and the relationships among the retrieved evi-
dence to guide the generation model toward producing ac-
curate, complete, and logically consistent answers.

The Framework of LogicRAG

Overview
To handle complex queries in RAG, we propose a structured
inference framework that decomposes complex queries into
interdependent subproblems and resolves them via a logic-
guided retrieval and generation process. The core of our
method is the construction and utilization of a Query Logic
Dependency Graph, a directed acyclic graph (DAG) that
models the logical structure underlying the query. Each node
in the DAG represents a subproblem, while edges encode the
directional dependencies required for reasoning.

The framework operates in three sequential stages. First,
the input query is decomposed into subproblems, and a
DAG is constructed to capture their logical relationships.
This graph is dynamically adapted during inference to reflect
evolving retrieval needs. Second, the DAG is topologically
sorted to produce a linear execution order that respects the
dependencies among subproblems. Each subproblem is then
resolved in a greedy, forward-pass manner, wherein retrieval
is conditioned on the outputs of previously resolved sub-
problems. This process ensures context-aware retrieval and
avoids recursive dependencies that hinder efficiency. Finally,
to enhance scalability, we apply a two-dimensional prun-
ing strategy that reduces context redundancy and merges se-
mantically similar subproblems. Context pruning uses LLM-
based summarization to maintain a rolling memory of rele-
vant information, while graph pruning consolidates loosely
coupled subproblems for unified resolution.

This logic-aware RAG pipeline transforms the tradition-
ally flat retrieval paradigm into a dependency-sensitive in-
ference mechanism. By aligning retrieval operations with
the query’s internal reasoning structure, the framework en-
ables efficient, accurate, and scalable multi-step reasoning
over complex information needs.

Figure 2: Illustration of the proposed LogicRAG.

Query Logic Dependency Graph Construction
To model the interdependencies among sub-problems during
inference, we construct a logic dependency graph that adap-
tively captures the structure of complex queries. This graph
is instantiated as a directed acyclic graph (DAG), which
guides the retrieval process in a manner aligned with the
query’s reasoning structure. We discuss the details of the
graph modeling and graph construction below:

Graph modeling. Let Q denote the input query, decom-
posed into a set of subproblems P = {p1, p2, . . . , pn},
where each pi corresponds to a node vi in a DAG G =
(V, E). The node set V = {v1, v2, . . . , vn} represents the
subproblems, and the directed edge set E ⊆ V × V encodes
logical dependencies among them. The acyclic nature of G
ensures a well-defined ordering for retrieval and reasoning.
Graph construction. The DAG construction process is
guided by three key considerations: ❶ Decomposition Accu-
racy: The query Q is first segmented into subproblems via
LLM-based reasoning, using few-shot prompting to ensure
precise task separation. ❷ Dependency Modeling: Edges are
inferred by the LLM based on logical precedence among
subproblems, and the resulting graph is verified via topolog-
ical sorting to enforce acyclicity. ❸ Dynamic Adaptation: If
retrieval for a node yields insufficient context, the LLM dy-
namically augments the DAG by adding new subproblems
and updating dependencies.

This DAG-based representation enables a principled rep-
resentation of the query structures by explicit modeling
of conditional dependencies across subproblems, support-
ing query decomposition and prioritization of retrieval. By
aligning retrieval with the query’s internal logic, the model
is better equipped for complex reasoning.

Graph Reasoning Linearization
Although query logic dependency graphs provide a struc-
tured approach to modeling complex queries, integrating
RAG with logical reasoning remains challenging due to
their inherent operational asymmetry: RAG assumes that

queries are independent and self-contained, whereas reason-
ing requires the sequential processing of interdependent sub-
problems, with intermediate results composed and passed
along logical dependencies. A na¨ıve integration of the two
paradigms results in significant inefficiencies and semantic
drift: each sub-query must be resolved in context, yet its for-
mulation may depend on unresolved predecessors, creating
a circular dependency in retrieval and generation.

Formally, let fRAG(pi, Ci) denote the retrieved answer for
subproblem pi, given context Ci, and let R(pi) be a retrieval
function producing Ci from an external corpus K. Then the
complete query resolution requires computing:
A = Compose ({fRAG(pi, R(pi))}n

i=1) ,

where Compose denotes the reasoning function that aggre-
gates sub-results according to the logic encoded in the DAG
G.

However, due to the dependencies in G, not all pi can be
processed in parallel. Specifically, the retrieval for pi may
depend on the answers to its parent nodes Pa(vi). This in-
troduces a local directed constraint:

Ci = R (cid:0)pi

(cid:12)
(cid:12) {fRAG(pj, Cj)}vj ∈Pa(vi)

(cid:1) ,

which prevents direct batching of retrievals. Without careful
scheduling, this leads to recursive resolution that is ineffi-
cient and hard to optimize.

To address this, we exploit the acyclic nature of the de-
pendency graph G and reduce the query resolution process
to a two-step solution:

Step 1: Topological Sort. To efficiently schedule the res-
olution process, we perform a topological sort over the DAG
G, using a depth-first search traversal. This yields an ordered
sequence of subproblems ⟨p(1), p(2), . . . , p(n)⟩, in which ev-
ery subproblem appears after all its dependencies. This lin-
earization respects the logical flow of reasoning and allows
sequential resolution of subproblems in a single forward
pass. The DFS-based topological sort has O(V + E) time
and space complexity.

zSub-problemsp1p2p3p4p1p2p3p4logical dependenciesDirected acyclicgraph (DAG)Graph Reasoning LinearizationQuery Logic Dependency Graph ConstructionRetrievalDependency Graph Constructionm1Contextpruningm2Queryp1p2p3p4TopologicalsortGreedy Retrieval and ResolutionRollingmemoryContextpruningContextpruningm3Retrievalm3p5Newsub-problemNewdependencyp5ContextpruningFinalanswerGenerationAnswerGenerationwithSelf-reflectionRetrieval Augmented Generation withReasoningStructureRetrievalRetrievalQueryDecompositionSelf-reflectionIncompleteCompleteRe-checkm3m4CurrentmemoryCheckcompletenessRetrievalp3p4p1p2m1m2Figure 3: Word-level Jaccard similarity between subqueries across rounds in the
agentic RAG process, averaging across the dataset.

Figure 4: Comparison between two strate-
gies: sampling w/ and w/o replacement.

Step 2: Greedy Retrieval and Resolution. We then iter-
ate over the sorted subproblems, resolving each p(i) greedily
using the current context:

C(i) = R

(cid:16)

p(i)

(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12) {fRAG(p(j), C(j))}j<i, v(j)∈Pa(v(i))

(cid:17)

a(i) = fRAG(p(i), C(i)).

, (1)

(2)

This greedy approach eliminates recursion while maintain-
ing logical consistency. Each context C(i) can be dynami-
cally adapted based on previously retrieved and inferred sub-
answers, enabling context-aware retrieval and incremental
reasoning with linear complexity.

Overall, this DAG-guided reasoning framework trans-
forms the complex interplay between retrieval and logic into
a tractable pipeline. The explicit decomposition via topolog-
ical sort and greedy resolution ensures efficiency, scalability,
and faithfulness to the original query’s reasoning structure.

Graph and Context Pruning

While the topological sort linearizes the reasoning process,
the overall inference cost remains non-trivial due to two fac-
tors: the growing size of accumulated context as subprob-
lems are resolved, and the potential redundancy among sub-
problems with similar semantics or overlapping dependen-
cies. To address this, we introduce a two-dimensional prun-
ing mechanism that improves both computational efficiency
and retrieval quality by reducing unnecessary context prop-
agation and subproblem duplication.

Context pruning via rolling memory. As the RAG pro-
gresses through the topologically sorted subproblems, each
retrieval step accumulates more contexts—text chunks re-
trieved from the knowledge base—which can overwhelm the
LLM and introduce noise that impairs generation. To miti-
gate this, we maintain a compressed memory state—a sin-
gle text string that serves as a rolling summary of the most
salient facts retrieved so far. After each subproblem p(i) is
resolved, its retrieved context and answer a(i) are distilled
via LLM-based summarization, and the resulting summary
is incorporated into the memory. At each subsequent step,
newly retrieved context is summarized oriented by the query
and merged with the existing memory to form an updated
memory:

Mem(i) = Summarize(Mem(i−1) ∪ R(p(i))),

(3)

where R(p(i)) is the set of retrieved text chunks for subprob-
lem p(i). This summarization-based pruning prevents con-
text bloat while preserving only the most relevant informa-
tion for downstream reasoning.

Graph pruning via unified subquery generation. Mul-
tiple subproblems in the DAG often share similar priori-
ties or loosely coupled dependencies, such as leaf or sib-
ling nodes in the topological order, representing paralleliz-
able factoid sub-tasks. To reduce redundant retrievals and
improve efficiency, we merge subproblems with the same
topological rank into a single unified query. For each step
in the graph reasoning process (Section ), let S(i) = {p(j) |
rank(p(j)) = rank(p(i))}n
j=i denote the set of subproblems
with the same rank as p(i). We construct a unified query:

quni
(i) = Merge(S(i)),
and perform a single retrieval to obtain a unified context
Cuni
(i) and a response set {a(j)}p(j)∈S(i). The process then
advances to the next topological rank, skipping individual
subproblem iterations. This graph pruning reduces retrieval
operations, shortens the reasoning chain, and enhances con-
sistency among semantically related subproblems.

(4)

By jointly applying context pruning and graph prun-
ing, our framework achieves more efficient inference with-
out compromising reasoning quality. The pruning process
is tightly guided by the DAG and dynamically adapts to
the evolving retrieval state, offering a scalable and context-
aware solution for complex query answering.

Sampling Strategy
We have developed a logic-guided RAG model that oper-
ates in an iterative, agentic manner. However, such systems
often encounter a “hesitation” issue, wherein the language
model, faced with uncertainty, repeatedly generates simi-
lar subqueries. This behavior impedes progress in resolving
downstream subproblems and leads to inefficiencies in both
computation and information gathering.

During the subquery generation step in Equation 4, we
consider two strategies for iterating over subproblems: (1)
sampling with replacement, where the current batch of sub-
problems S(i) is retained after generating the unified sub-
query quni
(i), allowing the language model to decide whether
to proceed to the next batch S(i+1); and (2) sampling with-
out replacement, where S(i) is removed after generating quni
(i),

Q1Q2Q3Q4Q5Q1Q2Q3Q4Q51.000.571.000.600.781.000.590.760.831.000.560.770.850.891.00HotpotQAQ1Q2Q3Q4Q5Q1Q2Q3Q4Q51.000.531.000.510.771.000.510.750.831.000.510.730.800.841.00MuSiQueQ1Q2Q3Q4Q5Q1Q2Q3Q4Q51.000.681.000.620.841.000.620.810.881.000.610.810.890.921.002WikiMQA0.500.620.750.881.002WikiMQAHotpotQAMuSiQueDatasets0255075100125150175200Accuracy63.162.562.662.636.437.5Acc (w/ repl.)Acc (w/o repl.)Token-Cost (w/ repl.)Token-Cost (w/o repl.)01000200030004000Token Cost243719972097173238732501Type

Model

HotpotQA

2WikiMQA

MuSiQue

Str-Acc.

LLM-Acc.

Str-Acc.

LLM-Acc.

Str-Acc.

LLM-Acc.

Direct Zero-shot LLM

Vanilla RAG

Graph-based RAG

Ours

Llama3 (8b)
Llama3 (13b)
GPT-3.5-turbo
GPT-4o-mini

VanillaRAG (Top-1)
VanillaRAG (Top-3)
VanillaRAG (Top-5)

KGP
G-retriever
RAPTOR
GraphRAG
LightRAG
HippoRAG
HippoRAG2

LogicRAG

17.1
23.7
31.5
38.7

38.4
43.2
44.1

46.4
28.5
48.1
39.6
47.8
53.7
56.7

54.8

11.1
20.1
35.4
36.3

48.6
53.1
53.9

57.1
40.9
57.8
45.2
57.7
55.6
61.9

62.6

22.3
33.8
24.0
26.4

34.8
43.0
46.7

47.5
26.7
47.7
46.3
43.1
47.7
50.0

64.7

4.7
15.4
22.0
24.3

37.3
42.0
45.6

43.7
35.7
45.9
43.3
36.3
47.2
47.1

62.5

2.3
6.4
7.9
17.6

13.2
20.3
21.0

23.3
9.1
25.2
16.5
18.1
24.9
27.0

30.4

2.0
6.0
10.9
14.0

18.5
23.6
23.6

27.5
15.6
29.1
23.1
19.4
30.1
32.6

37.5

Table 1: Question answering accuracy across benchmark datasets.

enforcing forward progression to S(i+1). The first strategy,
commonly adopted in iterative frameworks (Fu et al. 2023;
Yang et al. 2024a; Li, Li, and Nie 2021), is prone to stalling
at intermediate stages, producing near-duplicate subqueries
until the maximum number of retrieval iterations is reached.
Figure 3 presents the similarity matrix of subqueries gen-
erated under the first strategy. The heatmap indicates an in-
creasing tendency toward repetition as iterations progress.
Figure 4 compares token consumption and answer accuracy
under both strategies. Sampling without replacement con-
sistently yields lower per-question token cost across three
datasets while maintaining comparable answer quality. We
attribute this to two factors: (1) forcing progression pre-
vents the model from lingering on uncertain subproblems
and encourages the assimilation of broader knowledge, and
(2) avoiding redundant subquery generation leads to more
efficient inference.

Motivated by these findings, we adopt sampling without
replacement as the default strategy to ensure efficient and
effective multi-step retrieval and reasoning.

Experiments

Experiment Setup
Datasets. We evaluate our method’s RAG capabilities using
three multi-hop question-answering benchmarks: MuSiQue
(answerable) (Trivedi et al. 2022), 2WikiMultiHopQA (ab-
breviated as 2WikiMQA) (Ho et al. 2020), and Hot-
potQA (Yang et al. 2018). To manage experimental costs,
we follow HippoRAG (Guti´errez et al. 2024) by extracting
1,000 questions from each dataset’s validation set. Addition-
ally, we adopt the approach of IRCOT (Trivedi et al. 2023)
and HippoRAG (Guti´errez et al. 2024) to gather all candi-
date passages, including both supporting and distractor pas-
sages, from the selected questions to create a retrieval corpus
for each dataset. Dataset details are presented in Table 2.

Baselines. We compare against several baselines: (i)

MuSiQue

2WikiMQA HotpotQA

# of Passage
# of Query type

11,656
3

6,119
4

9,221
2

Table 2: Dataset statistics.

Zero-shot LLM Inference (llama3(8b), llama3(13b) (Lla-
maIndex 2024), gpt3.5-turbo, gpt-4o-mini (Achiam et al.
2023)), (ii) vanilla retrieval augmented generation (top1,
top3, top5), (iii) graph-based retrieval augmented generation
(KGP (Wang et al. 2024), RAPTOR (Sarthi et al. 2024), G-
retriever (He et al. 2024), GraphRAG (Edge et al. 2024),
LightRAG (Guo et al. 2024), HippoRAG (Guti´errez et al.
2024), HippoRAG2 (Guti´errez et al. 2025)). For those who
provide both single-step and multi-step options, we use their
multi-step version for its general superior performance.

Metrics. We evaluate end-to-end QA performance on the
datasets using two metrics: string-based accuracy, which
computes whether the gold answer is included in the gener-
ated answer after normalizing them to lowercase words; and
LLM-based accuracy, which lets an LLM decide whether
the generated answer correctly matches the gold answer.

Component

Specification

GPU
CPU

NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090
Intel Xeon (R) Silver (R) 4214R CPU 2.40 @ GHz

Table 3: Machine configuration.

Implementation details. To ensure fair comparison, we
use the same embedding models (sentence-transformers/all-
MiniLM-L6-v2) for all algorithms. The k is set to 3 for each
top-k retrieval. All the RAG methods use the same large
language models used for generation and evaluation, which
is gpt-4o-mini. Hardware configurations of the experiments
are presented in Table 3.

Figure 5: Distribution of accuracy across question types. Each ball represents a question type, with the y-axis position indicating
its accuracy and the radius reflecting its proportion in the dataset.

Figure 6: Pareto frontier of efficiency versus effectiveness for different k values.

Main Results

Table 1 reports the end-to-end question answering accu-
racy across three benchmarks, comparing LogicRAG against
baselines. Metrics include string-based accuracy and LLM-
based accuracy. The results lead to several key observations:
Zero-shot LLM inference. Direct prompting of LLMs
without any retrieval yields poor performance across all
datasets. Even strong models like GPT-4o-mini achieve only
38.7% string accuracy on HotpotQA and significantly lower
on 2WikiMQA and MuSiQue, underscoring the necessity of
retrieval augmentation for knowledge-intensive questions.

Vanilla RAG. Integrating corpus retrieval substantially
enhances performance. Increasing k consistently improves
accuracy across all datasets. However,
the performance
gains from larger k diminish at higher values, revealing that
vanilla RAG’s limitation lies in its bottleneck: reasoning
over multi-hop dependencies.

Graph-based RAG. Methods that explicitly model rela-
tionships among text chunks via graph structures further en-
hance performance. HippoRAG2 achieves the best results
among existing methods, reaching 56.7% string accuracy on
HotpotQA and 27.0% on MuSiQue. However, these meth-
ods remain limited in integrating logic constraints or lever-
aging structural reasoning during retrieval.

LogicRAG outperforms all baselines by a significant mar-
gin across all datasets. Notably, LogicRAG achieves 64.7%
string accuracy on 2WikiMQA, a +14.7% absolute improve-
ment over the next best baseline (HippoRAG2), and boosts
GPT-based accuracy to 62.5%. Similarly, on MuSiQue, Log-
icRAG reaches 30.4% string accuracy and 37.5% LLM ac-
curacy, outperforming HippoRAG2 by +3.4% and +4.9%,
respectively. These results highlight the effectiveness of

structured, logic-guided reasoning in enhancing retrieval
and QA quality in multi-hop settings.

Performance Breakdown by Question Type

Figure 5 presents the distribution of LogicRAG’s accuracy
across question types with a ball plot. This visualization al-
lows us to assess the proportion of query types and their im-
pact on model performance.

On HotpotQA, LogicRAG demonstrates strong perfor-
mance on comparison questions, achieving an accuracy
of 83%, significantly higher than the 58% accuracy on the
more prevalent bridge questions. This suggests that Log-
icRAG is particularly effective in tasks that require identi-
fying and comparing specific facts, while performance on
bridge-type questions—often requiring entity chaining—is
more susceptible to retrieval errors or reasoning drift.

In MuSiQue and 2WikiMQA, we observe more diverse
reasoning patterns. For MuSiQue, accuracy consistently de-
clines as the number of reasoning hops increases. This trend
underscores the growing complexity of multi-hop reasoning
and the challenge of maintaining coherent retrieval chains.
In 2WikiMQA, LogicRAG excels at comparison (89%)
and bridge-comparison (67%) questions. In contrast,
it shows lower performance on inference questions
(39%) and moderate performance on compositional
questions (50%), which represent
the largest category
(44.4%). Given both the prevalence and the difficulty of the
compositional type, improving model capability in handling
compositional reasoning would likely yield substantial gains
in overall performance on 2WikiMQA and represents a valu-
able direction for future research.

bridgecomparison2-hop3-hop4-hopbridgecomparisoncomparisoncompositionalinference0.000.250.500.751.00AccuracyHotpotQAMuSiQue2WikiMQAtop-1top-2top-3top-5top-10top-200.00.20.40.60.8Accuracy2WikiMQALLM AccStr AccToken Costtop-1top-2top-3top-5top-10top-20HotpotQAtop-1top-2top-3top-5top-10top-20MuSiQue20003000400050006000Token CostEfficiency-Effectiveness Trade-off of Top-k
Figure 6 illustrates the trade-off between the overall perfor-
mance and efficiency of LogicRAG of varied top-k selec-
tion. We plot both accuracy (left y-axis) alongside the corre-
sponding token cost (right y-axis) of the overall RAG task.
This figure serves as a Pareto frontier analysis, highlighting
how k impacts answer quality and computational overhead.
Across all datasets, both accuracy metrics generally im-
prove as k increases, but with diminishing returns beyond
top-3 or top-5. For example, on 2WikiMQA, increasing k
from 1 to 5 leads to a notable gain in string accuracy, while
gains from top-10 to top-20 are marginal. A similar trend
holds for HotpotQA, where LLM accuracy saturates near
top-10. On MuSiQue, improvements are more gradual, re-
flecting the inherent difficulty and more dispersed knowl-
edge distribution in this dataset.

However, increasing k incurs a steep rise in token cost,
particularly in MuSiQue, where the average cost exceeds
6000 tokens at top-20. This growing cost makes high k val-
ues less practical in real-world applications where latency
or budget constraints are critical. Taken together, these re-
sults suggest that moderate values (e.g., k = 3 or k = 5)
offer the best balance between effectiveness and efficiency.
This insight also motivates our context pruning with rolling
memory that summarizes salient facts during iterative RAG
to avoid incremental context accumulation.

Figure 7: Impact of graph pruning, by comparing the average
number of retrieval rounds with and without graph pruning.

Impact of Graph Pruning
We evaluate the impact of graph pruning by comparing the
average number of retrieval rounds across different query
types, as shown in Figure 7. Overall, graph pruning consis-
tently reduces the number of retrieval steps across all cate-
gories, confirming its effectiveness in eliminating redundant
subproblem resolution and promoting efficient inference.
Notably, compositional and multi-hop questions—typically
requiring deeper reasoning—benefit most from pruning due
to their higher potential for semantic overlap across sub-
queries.

Interestingly, while multi-hop questions (2-hop to 4-hop)
generally demand more retrieval rounds, the increase is not
strictly monotonic. In particular, 4-hop questions exhibit

fewer retrieval rounds on average than 3-hop questions. Our
investigation reveals that this arises from a behavioral ten-
dency of the LLM: when faced with long, complex queries,
it sometimes becomes prematurely confident and produces
an answer based on partial information. This mirrors a
well-known human cognitive bias—those with less insight
may display higher confidence—highlighting the challenge
of trust calibration in LLM-driven reasoning.

Method

Avg. Time (s) Avg. Token

ZeroShot
VanillaRAG

G-retriever
KGP
Raptor
GraphRAG
LightRAG
HippoRAG
HippoRAG2

LogicRAG

5.88
4.28

12.50
70.72
5.79
13.05
35.14
6.30
5.89

9.83

216.2
489.7

1000.0
11097.8
2568.0
4699.8
5730.6
2608.8
2809.2

1777.9

Table 4: Query answering efficiency on 2WikiMQA.

Query-time Efficiency Comparison
Table 4 reports the query-time efficiency of various multi-
hop QA models on 2WikiMQA, measured by average la-
tency and token usage during the retrieval and generation
stages. Notably, this comparison excludes the cost of graph
construction, which is required by all graph-based base-
lines. These methods typically rely on costly preprocessing
to build knowledge graphs, including steps like named entity
recognition, open information extraction, and offline graph
generation. The constructed graphs are then used to sum-
marize and index the corpus. This preprocessing often takes
tens to hundreds of minutes and can incur substantial addi-
tional token usage, as shown in Table 1.

By contrast, LogicRAG eliminates the need for any offline
graph construction, yet still maintains competitive query-
time performance with a modest latency and moderate token
usage. While flat retrieval baselines like VanillaRAG and
ZeroShot achieve slightly faster response times, they lack
the structured reasoning capabilities enabled by LogicRAG.
Taken together, these results suggest that LogicRAG offers a
cost-effective and practical solution for multi-hop QA, par-
ticularly in deployment scenarios where preprocessing and
knowledge update overhead is a bottleneck.

Conclusion
In this work, we present LogicRAG, a novel retrieval-
augmented generation framework that dynamically lever-
ages reasoning structures for complex query resolution. By
decomposing queries into subproblems and modeling their
dependencies as a directed acyclic graph, LogicRAG en-
ables logic-aware and efficient multi-step retrieval. This
principled framework offers a practical and scalable solution
for knowledge-intensive complex question answering with
large language models.

bridgecomparisoncomparisoncompositionalinferencebridgecomparison2-hop3-hop4-hop0.81.52.33.0w/ graph pruningw/o graph pruningAcknowledgement
The work described in this paper was fully supported by
a grant from the Innovation and Technology Commission
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China
(Project No. ITS/263/24FP).

References
Achiam, J.; Adler, S.; Agarwal, S.; Ahmad, L.; Akkaya, I.;
Aleman, F. L.; Almeida, D.; Altenschmidt, J.; Altman, S.;
Anadkat, S.; et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Anthropic. 2024. The Claude 3 Model Family: Opus, Son-
net, Haiku. Claude-3 Model Card.
Bei, Y.; Chen, H.; Chen, S.; Huang, X.; Zhou, S.; and Huang,
F. 2023. Non-recursive cluster-scale graph interacted model
for click-through rate prediction. In Proceedings of the 32nd
ACM International Conference on Information and Knowl-
edge Management, 3748–3752.
Borgeaud, S.; Mensch, A.; Hoffmann, J.; Cai, T.; Ruther-
ford, E.; Millican, K.; Van Den Driessche, G. B.; Lespiau,
J.-B.; Damoc, B.; Clark, A.; et al. 2022.
Improving lan-
guage models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In In-
ternational Conference on Machine Learning (ICML).
Chen, H.; Bei, Y.; Huang, W.; Chen, S.; Huang, F.; and
Huang, X. 2024a. Graph cross-correlated network for rec-
ommendation. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data
Engineering.
Chen, S.; Zhang, Q.; Dong, J.; Hua, W.; Cao, J.; and Huang,
X. 2024b. Neuro-Symbolic Entity Alignment via Variational
Inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.04153.
Chen, S.; Zhang, Q.; Dong, J.; Hua, W.; Li, Q.; and Huang,
X. 2024c. Entity Alignment with Noisy Annotations from
Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.16806.
Edge, D.; Trinh, H.; Cheng, N.; Bradley, J.; Chao, A.; Mody,
A.; Truitt, S.; and Larson, J. 2024. From local to global: A
graph rag approach to query-focused summarization. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.16130.
Fang, J.; Jiang, H.; Wang, K.; Ma, Y.; Jie, S.; Wang, X.; He,
X.; and Chua, T.-S. 2024. Alphaedit: Null-space constrained
arXiv preprint
knowledge editing for language models.
arXiv:2410.02355.
Fang, J.; Wang, Y.; Wang, R.; Yao, Z.; Wang, K.; Zhang,
A.; Wang, X.; and Chua, T.-S. 2025. Safemlrm: Demysti-
fying safety in multi-modal large reasoning models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2504.08813.
Fu, Y.; Peng, H.; Ou, L.; Sabharwal, A.; and Khot, T. 2023.
Specializing smaller language models towards multi-step
reasoning. In International Conference on Machine Learn-
ing, 10421–10430. PMLR.
Gao, Y.; Xiong, Y.; Gao, X.; Jia, K.; Pan, J.; Bi, Y.; Dai,
Y.; Sun, J.; and Wang, H. 2023. Retrieval-augmented gen-
eration for large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.10997.
Guo, K.; Shomer, H.; Zeng, S.; Han, H.; Wang, Y.; and Tang,
J. 2025. Empowering GraphRAG with Knowledge Filtering
and Integration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.13804.

Guo, Z.; Xia, L.; Yu, Y.; Ao, T.; and Huang, C. 2024. Ligh-
tRAG: Simple and Fast Retrieval-Augmented Generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05779.
Guti´errez, B. J.; Shu, Y.; Gu, Y.; Yasunaga, M.; and Su, Y.
2024. HippoRAG: Neurobiologically Inspired Long-Term
Memory for Large Language Models. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Guti´errez, B. J.; Shu, Y.; Qi, W.; Zhou, S.; and Su, Y. 2025.
From RAG to Memory: Non-Parametric Continual Learning
for Large Language Models. In Forty-second International
Conference on Machine Learning.
He, X.; Tian, Y.; Sun, Y.; Chawla, N. V.; Laurent, T.; LeCun,
Y.; Bresson, X.; and Hooi, B. 2024. G-retriever: Retrieval-
augmented generation for textual graph understanding and
question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.07630.
Ho, X.; Nguyen, A.-K. D.; Sugawara, S.; and Aizawa,
A. 2020. Constructing a multi-hop qa dataset for com-
prehensive evaluation of reasoning steps. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2011.01060.
Hong, Z.; Yuan, Z.; Chen, H.; Zhang, Q.; Huang, F.; and
Huang, X. 2024. Knowledge-to-SQL: Enhancing SQL Gen-
eration with Data Expert LLM. In Findings of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024.
Hong, Z.; Yuan, Z.; Zhang, Q.; Chen, H.; Dong, J.; Huang,
F.; and Huang, X. 2025. Next-generation database inter-
faces: A survey of llm-based text-to-sql. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering.
Huang, L.; Yu, W.; Ma, W.; Zhong, W.; Feng, Z.; Wang, H.;
Chen, Q.; Peng, W.; Feng, X.; Qin, B.; et al. 2023. A survey
on hallucination in large language models: Principles, tax-
onomy, challenges, and open questions. ACM Transactions
on Information Systems (TOIS).
Izacard, G.; Lewis, P.; Lomeli, M.; Hosseini, L.; Petroni,
F.; Schick, T.; Dwivedi-Yu, J.; Joulin, A.; Riedel, S.; and
Grave, E. 2023. Atlas: Few-shot learning with retrieval aug-
mented language models. The Journal of Machine Learning
Research (JMLR).
Jiang, Z.; Xu, F. F.; Gao, L.; Sun, Z.; Liu, Q.; Dwivedi-Yu,
J.; Yang, Y.; Callan, J.; and Neubig, G. 2023. Active re-
trieval augmented generation. In Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Khashabi, D.; Min, S.; Khot, T.; Sabharwal, A.; Tafjord, O.;
Clark, P.; and Hajishirzi, H. 2020. Unifiedqa: Crossing for-
mat boundaries with a single qa system. In Findings of Em-
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Lewis, P.; Perez, E.; Piktus, A.; Petroni, F.; Karpukhin, V.;
Goyal, N.; K¨uttler, H.; Lewis, M.; Yih, W.-t.; Rockt¨aschel,
Retrieval-augmented generation for
T.; et al. 2020.
In Advances in Neural In-
knowledge-intensive nlp tasks.
formation Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Li, Y.; Li, W.; and Nie, L. 2021. A graph-guided multi-round
retrieval method for conversational open-domain question
answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.08443.
Li, Y.; Li, Z.; Wang, P.; Li, J.; Sun, X.; Cheng, H.; and
Yu, J. X. 2023a. A survey of graph meets large lan-
guage model: Progress and future directions. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.12399.

Li, Z.; Wang, L.; Sun, X.; Luo, Y.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, D.; Luo,
Y.; Zhou, X.; Liu, Q.; Wu, S.; et al. 2023b. GSLB: the graph
structure learning benchmark. Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, 36: 30306–30318.
Liu, Z.; Shengyuan, C.; Zhou, K.; Zha, D.; Huang, X.; and
Hu, X. 2023. Rsc: accelerate graph neural networks train-
In International
ing via randomized sparse computations.
Conference on Machine Learning, 21951–21968. PMLR.
LlamaIndex. 2024. LlamaIndex - Build Knowledge Assis-
tants over your Enterprise Data. LlamaIndex Blog.
Lu, Z.; Ding, K.; Zhang, Y.; Li, J.; Peng, B.; and Liu, L.
2021. Engage the public: Poll question generation for social
media posts. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Pro-
cessing (Volume 1: Long Papers), 29–40.
Ma, S.; Xu, C.; Jiang, X.; Li, M.; Qu, H.; and Guo, J.
2024. Think-on-graph 2.0: Deep and interpretable large
language model reasoning with knowledge graph-guided re-
trieval. In International Conference on Learning Represen-
tations (ICLR).
OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 Technical Report. OpenAI Blog.
Peng, B.; Zhu, Y.; Liu, Y.; Bo, X.; Shi, H.; Hong, C.; Zhang,
Y.; and Tang, S. 2024. Graph retrieval-augmented genera-
tion: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.08921.
Sarthi, P.; Abdullah, S.; Tuli, A.; Khanna, S.; Goldie, A.;
and Manning, C. D. 2024. RAPTOR: Recursive Abstractive
In International
Processing for Tree-Organized Retrieval.
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Shengyuan, C.; Cai, Y.; Fang, H.; Huang, X.; and Sun, M.
2024. Differentiable neuro-symbolic reasoning on large-
scale knowledge graphs. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 36.
Sun, J.; Xu, C.; Tang, L.; Wang, S.; Lin, C.; Gong, Y.; Ni,
L.; Shum, H.-Y.; and Guo, J. 2024. Think-on-Graph: Deep
and Responsible Reasoning of Large Language Model on
Knowledge Graph. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR).
Trivedi, H.; Balasubramanian, N.; Khot, T.; and Sabharwal,
A. 2022. ♪ MuSiQue: Multihop Questions via Single-hop
Question Composition. Transactions of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 10: 539–554.
Trivedi, H.; Balasubramanian, N.; Khot, T.; and Sabharwal,
A. 2023. Interleaving Retrieval with Chain-of-Thought Rea-
In
soning for Knowledge-Intensive Multi-Step Questions.
The 61st Annual Meeting Of The Association For Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Wang, Y.; Lipka, N.; Rossi, R. A.; Siu, A.; Zhang, R.;
and Derr, T. 2024. Knowledge graph prompting for multi-
document question answering. In Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 38, 19206–
19214.
Wu, K.; Chen, H.; Wang, C.; Karray, F.; Li, Z.; Wang, Y.; and
Zhong, F. 2025. Hierarchical Instruction-aware Embodied
Visual Tracking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.20710.

Xiang, Z.; Wu, C.; Zhang, Q.; Chen, S.; Hong, Z.; Huang,
X.; and Su, J. 2025. When to use graphs in rag: A compre-
hensive analysis for graph retrieval-augmented generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.05690.
Xiao, Y.; Zhou, C.; Zhang, Q.; Dong, S.; Chen, S.; and
Huang, X. 2025a. LAG: Logic-Augmented Generation from
a Cartesian Perspective. arXiv:2508.05509.
Xiao, Y.; Zhou, C.; Zhang, Q.; Li, B.; Li, Q.; and Huang,
X. 2025b. Reliable Reasoning Path: Distilling Effective
Guidance for LLM Reasoning with Knowledge Graphs.
arXiv:2506.10508.
Yang, D.; Rao, J.; Chen, K.; Guo, X.; Zhang, Y.; Yang,
J.; and Zhang, Y. 2024a.
Im-rag: Multi-round retrieval-
augmented generation through learning inner monologues.
In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Con-
ference on Research and Development in Information Re-
trieval, 730–740.
Yang, D.; Rao, J.; Chen, K.; Guo, X.; Zhang, Y.; Yang,
J.; and Zhang, Y. 2024b.
Im-rag: Multi-round retrieval-
augmented generation through learning inner monologues.
In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Con-
ference on Research and Development in Information Re-
trieval, 730–740.
Yang, Z.; Qi, P.; Zhang, S.; Bengio, Y.; Cohen, W. W.;
Salakhutdinov, R.; and Manning, C. D. 2018. HotpotQA: A
dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answer-
ing. In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP).
Zhang, F.; Huang, Z.; Zhou, Y.; Guo, Q.; Li, Z.; Luo, W.;
Jiang, D.; Fang, Y.; and Zhou, X. 2025a. EraRAG: Efficient
and Incremental Retrieval Augmented Generation for Grow-
ing Corpora. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.20963.
Zhang, Q.; Dong, J.; Chen, H.; Zha, D.; Yu, Z.; and Huang,
X. 2024. Knowgpt: Knowledge graph based prompting for
large language models. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 37: 6052–6080.
Zhang, Q.; Xiang, Z.; Xiao, Y.; Wang, L.; Li, J.; Wang, X.;
and Su, J. 2025b. FaithfulRAG: Fact-Level Conflict Model-
ing for Context-Faithful Retrieval-Augmented Generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.08938.
Zhong, F.; Wu, K.; Wang, C.; Chen, H.; Ci, H.; Li, Z.; and
Wang, Y. 2024. Unrealzoo: Enriching photo-realistic virtual
worlds for embodied ai. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.20977.
Zhou, C.; Wang, Z.; Chen, S.; Du, J.; Zheng, Q.; Xu, Z.;
and Huang, X. 2025a. Taming Language Models for Text-
attributed Graph Learning with Decoupled Aggregation. In
Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
3463–3474.
Zhou, H.; Du, J.; Zhou, C.; Yang, C.; Xiao, Y.; Xie, Y.; and
Huang, X. 2025b. Each Graph is a New Language: Graph
Learning with LLMs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.11478.
Zhou, H.; Yu, K.; Zhang, Q.; Chen, H.; Zha, D.; Pei, W.;
Kong, A.; and Huang, X. 2025c. Self-Monitoring Large
Language Models for Click-Through Rate Prediction. ACM
Transactions on Information Systems, 44(1): 1–25.

Zhou, Y.; Su, Y.; Sun, Y.; Wang, S.; Wang, T.; He, R.; Zhang,
Y.; Liang, S.; Liu, X.; Ma, Y.; et al. 2025d. In-depth Anal-
ysis of Graph-based RAG in a Unified Framework. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2503.04338.
Zhuang, L.; Chen, S.; Xiao, Y.; Zhou, H.; Zhang, Y.; Chen,
H.; Zhang, Q.; and Huang, X. 2025. LinearRAG: Linear
Graph Retrieval Augmented Generation on Large-scale Cor-
pora. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.10114.

A. Pseudo Code

Supplementary Material

Algorithm 1: LogicRAG: Logic-Aware Retrieval-Augmented Generation

1: Input: Query Q, LLM, embedding model θ, knowledge corpus K
2: Output: Final answer A
3: Use LLM to decompose Q into subproblems P = {p1, . . . , pn}
4: Initialize DAG G = (V, E) with V = {vi ↔ pi} and E = ∅
5: Use LLM to infer logical dependencies among P and populate E
6: Topologically sort G to obtain ranks rank(pi) for all pi
7: Initialize rolling memory Mem(0) ← ∅
8: for each rank r in ascending topological order do
9:
10:
11:
12:
13:
14:
15:
16:
17:
18:
19:
20: end for
21: Generate final answer A = Compose({ai}) using LLM
22: Return A

Let S(r) = {pi | rank(pi) = r}
Construct unified query q(r) = Merge(S(r)) using LLM
Retrieve documents C (r) = R(q(r); θ, K)
Summarize C (r) with respect to Q and Mem(r−1) to get Mem(r)
for each pi ∈ S(r) do

end for
if LLM identifies a new unresolved subproblem pn+1 then
Add new node vn+1 to V and edge(s) to E if needed
Append pn+1 as a new rank after the current rank sequence

end if

Use LLM to resolve pi using Mem(r) and store intermediate answer ai

▷ Subproblems at same level

▷ Unified retrieval

B. Related Work
Graph-based RAG methods explicitly structure textual corpora into graphs to support multi-hop reasoning. For example,
hierarchical-graph methods like GraphRAG (Edge et al. 2024) and RAPTOR (Sarthi et al. 2024) organize knowledge into multi-
level document graphs (via community detection or recursive tree summarization) for coarse-to-fine retrieval. LightRAG (Guo
et al. 2024) similarly builds a dual-level, graph-augmented index to enable efficient, incrementally updatable retrieval. Inspired
by hippocampal memory models, HippoRAG (Guti´errez et al. 2024) and HippoRAG2 (Guti´errez et al. 2025) constructs a
knowledge graph to index text chunks, and employ Personalized PageRank to perform one-shot multi-hop search. These graph-
based approaches can employ off-the-shelf graph reasoning algorithms (Shengyuan et al. 2024; Chen et al. 2024b; Zhou et al.
2025a; Liu et al. 2023; Bei et al. 2023; Chen et al. 2024a; Li et al. 2023b) for enhancing retrieval accuracy. However, they rely
on pre-built knowledge graphs or indexes. In contrast, LogicRAG eschews any fixed graph: it dynamically constructs a logic
dependency graph of intermediate subqueries at inference time and uses a topological ordering to guide retrieval in a logically
coherent sequence. LogicRAG also prunes redundant graph branches and context passages at each step to reduce overlap and
token usage, enabling efficient multi-hop reasoning without a precomputed graph structure.

Reasoning-enhanced RAG methods instead interleave retrieval with the model’s own reasoning process. Think-on-
Graph (Ma et al. 2024) alternates between using a static knowledge graph and text retrieval, leveraging entity links to deepen
contextual retrieval iteratively. Likewise, RRP (Xiao et al. 2025b) distills guidance for LLM reasoning on well-established
knowledge graphs. IRCoT (Trivedi et al. 2023) interleaves retrieval with a chain-of-thought: it uses the LLM’s intermediate
reasoning steps to decide what to retrieve next, feeding retrieved facts back into the CoT. Likewise, IM-RAG (Yang et al.
2024b) trains the LLM to generate iterative “inner monologue” queries over multiple rounds of retrieval, refining its queries
via reinforcement learning. Recent LAG (Xiao et al. 2025a) enhances problem solving by problem decomposition and logic
augmentation from a Cartesian perspective. These methods improve multi-step QA by tightly coupling retrieval with reasoning
steps, but they still depend on fixed resources (like a static KG) or predetermined retrieval schedules. LogicRAG, by contrast,
constructs and updates its reasoning DAG adaptively during inference. It schedules subgoals by topologically sorting the DAG,
effectively planning retrieval in dependency order, and prunes irrelevant branches and context on the fly. This dynamic, adaptive
planning lets LogicRAG perform flexible multi-step reasoning efficiently, without any static graph or fixed retrieval plan.

C. Notations
Please refer to Table 5.

Symbol

Description

Input query
Final answer generated by the RAG system
External knowledge corpus
Retrieved context for the query Q
Retrieval function mapping queries to relevant contexts from K
Set of subproblems decomposed from the input query Q
Query logic dependency graph (a DAG) modeling subproblem dependencies

Q
A
K
C
R(·)
P = {p1, . . . , pn}
G = (V, E)
V = {v1, . . . , vn} Node set of G, where vi corresponds to subproblem pi
E ⊆ V × V
Pa(vi)
fRAG(pi, Ci)
ai
Mem(i)
rank(pi)
S(i)
quni
i
C uni
i

Directed edge set representing logical dependencies among subproblems
Set of parent nodes of vi in the DAG G
RAG model output for subproblem pi with context Ci
Answer generated for subproblem pi
Rolling memory at step i, containing summarized prior context
Topological rank of subproblem pi in DAG G
Set of subproblems with the same rank rank(pi)
Unified query constructed from S(i)
Retrieved context for the unified query quni

i

Table 5: Notation Table

D. Case Study
We show a case of a three-hop question from the MuSiQue dataset, to demonstrate how to identify supporting knowledge for
the question by multiround retrieval with reasoning.

This example demonstrates a complex multi-hop question requiring geopolitical knowledge, temporal reasoning, and indirect
entity resolution. The question refers obliquely to the Soviet Union through the phrase “the country where, despite being
headquartered in the nation called the nobilities commonwealth, the top-ranking Warsaw Pact operatives originated,” which
demands recognizing that the “nobilities commonwealth” is a historical reference to the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth,
and that while the Warsaw Pact was signed in Warsaw, Poland, it was dominated by the USSR. Thus, the country in question is
the Soviet Union, making the Tripartite discussions involve Britain, France, and the USSR.

To answer the temporal aspect of the question, the model must locate when discussions involving these three parties began.
RetrievalBox3 provides a precise temporal signal: “In mid-June, the main Tripartite negotiations started.” This date, paired
with the correct identification of the USSR, allows for an accurate answer—June. The example illustrates the model’s ability to
resolve indirect references, integrate multi-document evidence, and infer temporal details grounded in historical context.

Question

What month did the Tripartite discussions begin between Britain, France, and the country where, despite being head-
quartered in the nation called the nobilities commonwealth, the top-ranking Warsaw Pact operatives originated?

Retrieval Round 1

The Warsaw Pact, formally known as the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, was a collective
defence treaty signed in Warsaw, Poland among the Soviet Union and seven Soviet satellite states of Central and East-
ern Europe during the Cold War. The Warsaw Pact was the military complement to the Council for Mutual Economic
Assistance (CoMEcon), the regional economic organization for the socialist states of Central and Eastern Europe. The
Warsaw Pact was created in reaction to the integration of West Germany into NATO in 1955 per the London and Paris
Conferences of 1954, but it is also considered to have been motivated by Soviet desires to maintain control over military
forces in Central and Eastern Europe.

Retrieval Round 2

The eight member countries of the Warsaw Pact pledged the mutual defense of any member who would be attacked.
Relations among the treaty signatories were based upon mutual non-intervention in the internal affairs of the member
countries, respect for national sovereignty, and political independence. However, almost all governments of those member
states were indirectly controlled by the Soviet Union.

Retrieval Round 3

By the end of May, drafts were formally presented. In mid-June, the main Tripartite negotiations started. The discussion
was focused on potential guarantees to central and east European countries should a German aggression arise. The USSR
proposed to consider that a political turn towards Germany by the Baltic states would constitute an ”indirect aggression”
towards the Soviet Union. Britain opposed such proposals, because they feared the Soviets´proposed language could
justify a Soviet intervention in Finland and the Baltic states, or push those countries to seek closer relations with Germany.
The discussion about a definition of ”indirect aggression” became one of the sticking points between the parties, and by
mid-July, the tripartite political negotiations effectively stalled, while the parties agreed to start negotiations on a military
agreement, which the Soviets insisted must be entered into simultaneously with any political agreement.

Answer

June Supporting Evidence:

• Historical records state: ”In mid-June, the main Tripartite negotiations started”
• Contextual factors:

– The ”nobilities commonwealth” refers to the USSR (headquartered in Moscow)
– Warsaw Pact operatives were predominantly Soviet-controlled
– Discussions focused on Central/Eastern European security guarantees