PICOs-RAG: PICO-supported Query Rewriting for
Retrieval-Augmented Generation in Evidence-Based
Medicine

1stMengzhou Sun
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
mzsun@ir.hit.edu.cn

2nd Sendong Zhao
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
sdzhao@ir.hit.edu.cn

3rdJianyu Chen
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
hcwang@ir.hit.edu.cn

4thBing Qin
Faculty of Computing
Harbin Institute of Technology
Harbin, China
qinb@ir.hit.edu.cn

5
2
0
2

t
c
O
8
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
8
9
9
3
2
.
0
1
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract—Evidence-based medicine (EBM) research has al-
ways been of paramount importance. It is important to find
appropriate medical theoretical support for the needs from physi-
cians or patients to reduce the occurrence of medical accidents.
This process is often carried out by human querying relevant
literature databases, which lacks objectivity and efficiency. There-
fore, researchers utilize retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
to search for evidence and generate responses automatically.
However, current RAG methods struggle to handle complex
queries in real-world clinical scenarios. For example, when
queries lack certain information or use imprecise language, the
model may retrieve irrelevant evidence and generate unhelpful
answers. To address this issue, we present the PICOs-RAG to
expand the user queries into a better format. Our method can
expand and normalize the queries into professional ones and
use the PICO format, a search strategy tool present in EBM, to
extract the most important information used for retrieval. This
approach significantly enhances retrieval efficiency and relevance,
resulting in up to an 8.8% improvement compared to the baseline
evaluated by our method. Thereby the PICOs-RAG improves the
performance of the large language models into a helpful and
reliable medical assistant in EBM.

Index Terms—LLMs, Evidence-Based Medicine, Query

Rewriting, RAG, PICO

I. INTRODUCTION
As evidence-based medicine (EBM) becomes increasingly
widespread, physicians recognize that clinical diagnoses sup-
ported by substantial medical evidence tend to have lower mis-
diagnosis rates. With the growing amount of medical literature,
each diagnosis now requires extensive supporting evidence.
Consequently, medical professionals are turning to AI as an
auxiliary tool to implement EBM effectively. However, AI
must be capable of integrating all patient information and the
available supporting evidence [4]. Traditional models, due to
memory limitations and other constraints, have struggled to
manage and synthesize this large amount of evidence com-
prehensively [7, 16]. This situation persists until the advent
of large language models (LLMs). With the enhancement
of various medical LLMs and continuous optimization of
training methods, many of these models have now reached
the capability to effectively perform this critical clinical task
[6].

Fig. 1. The architecture of current RAG methods compared with our PICOs
method. The PICOs enhance the relevance of the evidence retrieval process
and improve the accuracy of responses, enabling the LLM to provide precise
and targeted assistance.

Recently, LLMs have undergone multiple rounds of rein-
forcement and improvement [1]. They can utilize the retrieval-
augmented generation (RAG) method to significantly reduce
the hallucination to the levels accepted by many professional
researchers
[27, 10]. However, the LLMs still have many
limitations for their application in medicine. Current LLMs
still can not answer clearly in the domain such as clinical
medicine for the complicated queries. From real medical
question-and-answer Platforms [8], we find that due to the
lack of professional knowledge, users such as patients may

 
 
 
 
 
 
use non-professional words and omit crucial information when
they query doctors. In this situation, RAG frequently fails to
retrieve the most critical evidence and gets a noisy index. As
shown in Figure 1, the current RAG retrieves the keywords like
‘hirudin’, ‘discharged from hospital’, and other noise, which
may be hard to retrieve the critical evidence. Therefore, the
LLMs may generate an irrelevant answer which is unhelpful
for users. This result significantly diminishes the user experi-
ence, which decreases trust in LLMs.

To address the above problem, we propose a method,
PICOs-RAG, based on LLMs for query expanding and extract-
ing the critical information from the query. As shown in the
right part of Figure 1, our approach is divided into three steps:
expanding the query, extracting the PICOs, and retrieving the
evidence. We first expand and normalize the query and then
extract by a PICO format. The words are separated into four
main components: Population, Intervention, Comparison, and
Outcome [15]. These components contain the core information
of the query. By providing the retrieved evidence along with
the expanded query to the LLM, we obtain more accurate and
professional responses compared to current RAG methods.

We also employ two different evaluation methods to assess
the accuracy and relevance of the model-generated responses.
Our findings indicate that PICOs-RAG provides a stable and
significant improvement across the entire EBM RAG system.
Specifically, the accuracy increased by 6.2% under the ac-
curacy evaluation method, and by 8.6% under the relevance
evaluation method.

Our approach primarily optimizes the RAG model for EBM
tasks by addressing the issue of weak relevance in queries and
evidence. The main contributions of our method are as follows:
• We enhance the feasibility and effectiveness of user input
by expanding and normalizing queries based on medical
specialties.

• We present a PICO-based method to extract the core
elements of the question, aiding the subsequent RAG
process in more targeted evidence retrieval and response
generation.

• We propose two different evaluation approaches to eval-
uate medical responses, assessing LLM outputs more
comprehensively and robustly.

II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORKS

A. Evidence Based Medicine and PICO

EBM, as an essential practice method in modern medicine,
aims to make optimal clinical decisions by integrating the best
research evidence, clinical expertise, and patient preferences
[21, 2]. In recent years, the development of natural language
processing and the advancements in data processing have
greatly promoted the growth and application of EBM [23].
However, EBM still faces many challenges and limitations in
practical application. The core principle of EBM is to empha-
size high-quality research evidence to guide clinical practice.
This is crucial for improving the scientific and effective
nature of medical decision-making. EBM combines systematic

Fig. 2. Steps of EBM. EBM primarily involves formulating the queries,
searching for all possible relevant evidence, filtering and reordering the
obtained evidence, and answering the question based on the evidence gathered.
Our method focuses on optimizing the query, addressing the issue where
queries may lack professionalism and clarity due to insufficient knowl-
edge [15].

research evidence, clinical expertise, and patient values to
provide the most appropriate clinical care. Through systematic
reviews and meta-analyses, physicians can access the latest and
most reliable medical research results, enabling them to make
more scientifically informed treatment decisions. [3]

As shown in Figure 2, EBM can be divided into six parts.
Currently,
there is a high demand for AI applications in
EBM. As stated in the work of Subbish [21], AI should
comprehensively utilize all patient information, including ex-
tracting, organizing, and mining vast amounts of historical
data, genomics, and other omics analyses, as well as all
published clinical studies, to provide the next generation of
evidence for deep medicine. traditional models like BERT and
Transformer, due to memory limitations and the capabilities of
physicians, cannot fully integrate these contents, necessitating
larger models for comprehensive integration and decision-
making.

Research on the effectiveness of medical training [17] has
indicated that current EBM training can significantly improve
EBM knowledge and skills of healthcare professionals and
promote their application in clinical practice. This is of great
significance for improving the quality of healthcare services.
However, there are differences in the acceptance and adapt-
ability of training among different healthcare professionals,
which may lead to variability in training outcomes among
individuals. Further research is needed to adjust training con-
tent and methods based on individual differences to enhance
overall effectiveness. PICO is a concept in EBM used to
identify the components of clinical evidence within a system-
atic review. [9] This concept effectively describes the primary
components of a medical text. We apply this concept and
methodology to the RAG-LLMs approach to extract the most

critical parts of medical texts, and we termed this enhanced
method PICOs. The PICO tool focuses on the four main con-
cepts of “Population, Intervention, Comparison, and Outcome”
within Medical articles. Moreover, the structured approach of
PICO facilitates the efficient screening and evaluation of a vast
amount of literature, ensuring the relevance and quality of the
selected studies.

B. RAG for EBM

LLMs have made significant strides in natural language
processing in recent years. Models such as GPT-4o and Claude
have demonstrated exceptional analytical and processing ca-
pabilities, leading to substantial breakthroughs in fields like
medicine, military, and law. Currently, LLMs can adapt to
the latest medical research and clinical practices, enhancing
decision-making quality and accuracy. As shown in the Google
work [19] LLMs can be applied to various medical domains.
In terms of methodology, researchers have developed the RAG
approach, which combines retrieval and generation to reduce
hallucinations. In rapidly evolving fields such as medicine,
researchers often express concerns that LLMs might provide
outdated responses due to their static internal knowledge base.
RAG effectively mitigates this issue by integrating up-to-date
information. The concept of EBM, which relies on extensive
medical evidence as the basis for judgment, aligns perfectly
with the RAG approach. Thus, the RAG method is highly
suitable for current EBM practices. It also represents an
effective application of LLMs to assist clinicians in solving
clinical problems.

However, the application of LLMs in the medical field
presents its challenges. Firstly, at the application level, the
questions addressed in EBM are often posed by patients collo-
quially or informally. Directly using these questions to search
for evidence often results in irrelevant or even meaningless
search results. After retrieving relevant evidence, researchers
in EBM frequently find an overwhelming amount of evidence,
some of which may be contradictory, necessitating meta-
analysis. This meta-analysis process is time-consuming, labor-
intensive, and highly subjective. Analyzing these pieces of
evidence using LLMs can mislead the models into making
incorrect judgments. The third issue is the inherent limitations
of LLMs; the output often contains factual errors. Although
incorporating the RAG process has improved this, models
sometimes rely on their internal knowledge and overlook
more reliable information from the RAG process. Therefore,
a means of verifying factual errors is necessary. Addressing
these issues, this paper focuses on optimizing the first problem
by starting with user queries. Using the PICO principles of
EBM, we formalize the original input, making the retrieval
process more efficient and the questions more targeted.

C. Query expanding to augmenting RAG

When applying NLP models to the data in the professional
domain, many researchers have noted that not all user inputs
are complete and clear. For example, in online medical Q&A
data, users often lack relevant medical knowledge, leading

to unfocused and unprofessional questions. This can cause
misunderstandings of medical concepts or overly verbose
questions. These questions will fail to efficiently convey the
user’s current
intent. This issue significantly impacts both
the retrieval process and the answer generation process in
RAG models, greatly limiting the stable performance on such
datasets.

To address this challenge, numerous efforts have been made
to rewrite the input queries of LLMs, making them more
targeted and professional, thereby improving the accuracy of
the responses. Current research approaches mainly fall into
two categories: using LLMs and small models to expand the
input. In the method of query rewriting [13],
the authors
compared three different query schemes, fully demonstrating
the effectiveness of current query rewriting methods. In the
work RAFE [14], users effectively validated the efficacy of
query rewriting through comparative experiments on different
datasets and SFT methods.

These two works have inspired this paper. However, in our
experiments, we find that directly applying these methods fails
to effectively handle query expansion in the medical field.
Our analysis reveals two main reasons for this failure. Firstly,
the medical domain datasets are too specialized, presenting a
knowledge gap that small models cannot bridge. Simple-term
translation offers little help to RAG. Secondly, relying solely
on LLMs for expansion results in excessively long retrieval
content, leading to retrieval results filled with irrelevant infor-
mation.

To overcome these shortcomings, we propose a novel
method that combines large and small models for query
rewriting based on the PICOs criteria. This approach aims
to enhance the precision and relevance of queries, thereby
improving the performance of RAG models in the medical
domain.

A. Task definition

III. METHODS

Our task is to take the user’s medical queries as input
and provide answers. To align with the principles of EBM,
we aim to offer not only a convincing response but also the
corresponding evidence to support the given answer.

In this task, our method involves several steps as shown in
Figure 3. First, we classify the query into different medical
disciplines. Specifically, we get the classification results and
then expand the query based on them. Afterward, we extract
the core PICOs components from the expanded content. We
then use these extracted PICOs to perform targeted evidence
retrieval from a knowledge base composed of medical guide-
lines and literature. Finally, we submit the retrieved evidence
along with the user’s expanded and normalized query to the
target LLM, which generates the final response.

B. Query classification

We first classify the queries by the medical disciplines.
Expanding queries requires a certain medical prompt to pre-
vent the model from generating Rambling content, which is

Fig. 4. Examples of the method we expand and normalize query. The
sentences rewritten by the LLM use more professional language, and the
user’s query is effectively completed.

Fig. 3. PICOs method to help RAG used on EBM. PICOs first capture
the objective aspects of the queries. The classification results then prompt
the LLM to expand and refine the query. After the query is completed, we
use the LLM to extract the PICO elements from the question. These PICO
elements are then passed to the retrieval module for more precise extraction.
The retrieved results, along with the refined question, are then fed into the
response model to generate the final response.

quite harmful to the next PICO extraction. In clinical practice,
different disciplines focus on different parts of patients’ infor-
mation. For instance, in internal medicine, doctors tend to ask
detailed questions about dietary habits, medical history, and
family history. These symptoms are always important clues
for patients if they have problems with internal medicine.
Therefore, identifying the relevant disciplines can significantly
aid the model in effectively expanding the user’s query. We
have made an experiment and proved this result in section
IV.C.

C. Query expanding

After the classification, we utilize the LLMs for normalizing
and expanding the queries. As shown in Figure 4. The LLMs
normalize and expand the query following the categories of the
disciplines. We provide the model with the required response
format and prompts about the relevant medical discipline. This
information helps the model understand the necessary content
for expansion, making its output more accurate and targeted.
In this step, since we choose not to impose length and
output restrictions on the expanding content, we observed
that the model occasionally directly answers the query after
completing the expansion. This phenomenon can interfere with

subsequent PICOs extraction. To address this, we incorporate
output rules into the prompt to guide the model’s output,
making it easier to filter out any irrelevant or unauthorized
content from the model’s response.

D. PICOs extraction

Upon using the LLMs, we find that the outputs still contain
a substantial amount of irrelevant information. Directly using
these irrelevant contents for extraction significantly reduces
our retrieval efficiency. Therefore, as shown in Figure 5, we
adapt the PICOs method to filter the expanding LLM output
using the PICO format. By extracting the PICO (Population,
Intervention, Comparison, Outcome) information, we elimi-
nate other unnecessary information from the content.

After we obtain the required PICO information, we use
these core words for evidence retrieval. These PICO elements
are vectorized by LLMs and then compared with the vectors
in the index, which is present in MED-PaLM2 work [20] and
filled with medical guidelines. The content with the highest
relevance is selected for retrieval. The filtered content is more
targeted and efficient, and this method ultimately proved to
enhance the RAG retrieval capability significantly. Once we
have obtained high-quality evidence, we provide this evidence
along with the expanded query to the response model, which
then generates the final answer.

E. Answer evaluation

Finally, we need to evaluate the quality of our model’s
outputs. In open-ended medical Q&A tasks, this evaluation is
typically challenging. Direct evaluation by LLMs tends to be

Fig. 5. Examples of the method we extract the PICOs from the rewritten
query. The PICO-formatted text extracted through PICOs is more targeted
compared to the expanded sentences, resulting in content retrieval that is
more closely aligned with the query.

highly unstable, and manual assessment is time-consuming and
labor-intensive. Fortunately, we can access the best answers
selected by the users who posed the questions, which serve
as a valuable reference. To assess the accuracy and relevance
of the model’s responses, we employ two different evaluation
methods: 1)Method A: We use an LLM to compare the
model’s responses with the best answers to ensure that the
response includes the semantic information contained in the
best answer. this method is referred to as Method A. 2)Method
B: We use a more comprehensive and knowledgeable LLM to
evaluate the overall accuracy of the model’s response, which is
considered as Method B. These two evaluation metrics allow
for a more thorough interpretation of the quality of generated
model responses for the users.

IV. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS

A. Experiments setup

Firstly, we explore various medical question datasets to
simulate real-world queries from non-professional users. We
find there are adequate datasets in English while current LLMs
are highly trained on these datasets. Therefore, Even without
any additional support, these LLMs may achieve high accuracy
in English datasets. To better demonstrate the effectiveness of
our method, we ultimately choose a Chinese dataset named
webMedQA [8]. It comprises Q&A pairs from online medical

Fig. 6. Examples of the two methods of evaluation. We utilize different
to evaluate the generated responses
prompts, Method A and Method B,
regarding relevance to the gold standard and total knowledge accuracy. This
approach allows for a more comprehensive assessment of the responses within
medical contexts.

forums. This dataset features many conversational and non-
specialist questions in Chinese, making it suitable for our
study.

Secondly, we utilize an extractive model approach called
LLaMA-index [12] for RAG. We vectorize the medical guide-
lines datasets mentioned above as an index. The retrieval is
performed by comparing the similarity between the search
query and the evidence. The retrieved content is then input
into the tested LLM as a reference for answering medical
questions.

Next, for query rewriting and response, we both select the
Baichuan2-13B model because it would be impractical and
cumbersome to require medical institutions to deploy multiple
models. We test various models, including LLaMA2 [22],
LLaMA3 [5], BaiChuan2 [24], Huatuo2 [25] and Ziya-
LLaMA-13B [26]. Ultimately, we select the BaiChuan2-13B
model for its best performance. As shown in Figure 7, We
find Huatuo and ZiYa models are hard to fully grasp our
intention to expand the query and instead directly answer the

and ultimately select BaiChuan2-13B and GPT-4o-mini as
the models in Method A and Method B. As explained in
Section III, The results obtained from Method A do not
represent absolute accuracy but rather provide a measure of
whether the response has covered the gold answer. During our
experiments, we observe the BaiChuan2-13B as the evaluator
strictly adheres to the prompt of comparing the gold answer.
In contrast, GPT-4o-mini, with its more extensive knowledge
base, focuses more on whether the response is substantively
correct. Although we give the GPT-4o-mini the gold answer,
is more inclined to make judgments based on
the model
its internal knowledge. Therefore, as shown in Figure 6, we
believe that Method A (evaluated by BaiChuan2-13B) better
reflects the relevance of the model’s response. Method B
(evaluated by GPT-4o-mini) provides a better indication of
whether the content was comprehensive and accurate.

B. Performance of PICOs-RAG

In this study, we use direct input from users as the control
group and our PICOs-RAG reinforcement method as the
experimental group to evaluate its effectiveness in identifying
medical questions. We extract 500 queries randomly, covering
a range of topics including medical
treatment, diagnosis,
and fee consultations. As shown in Table I, after applying
our PICOs method, the responses become clearer and more
relevant to the query. However, the GPT-4o methods rise to
such a high accuracy at 56.4% evaluated by Method B, while
Method A is 10.2% lower than the PICOs. Also, It’s worth
highlighting that Method B treats any output in a non-Chinese
language as incorrect. As a result, the accuracy of the LLaMA
model was notably lower when assessed using Method B.

TABLE I
BEHAVIOR OF PICOS AND BASELINES

LLMs to evaluate
Baichuan2-13B
Baichuan2-13B PICOs
Gpt-4o-mini
Gpt-4o-mini PICOs
Llama3-7B
Llama3-7B PICOs

Method A Method B

78.6%
84.8%
66.6%
74.6%
42.8%
78.0%

30.4%
39.2%
19.0%
56.4%
18.6%
6.2%

Fig. 7. Examples of the pertinence of PICOs method generated. ZIYA tends
to directly replicate the evidence. Huatuo2 tends to generate Meaningless
repetition. LLaMA3 generates a good response but in the wrong language.

questions frequently. At the response step, Huatuo2 tends to
generate meaningless repetition until the end of the response,
while ZIYA tends to directly replicate the content from the
evidence. The LLaMA3 model lacks sufficient Chinese medi-
cal knowledge, resulting in a response in the wrong language.
Consequently, we choose the BaiChuan2-13B model for the
query expansion and normalization process. Also, we test
some strong commercial LLMs like GPT-4o and GPT-4o-
mini [18]. As a generative model, GPT-4o is too expensive
and tends to adopt a cautious approach when answering
medical questions. Although this strategy often results in high
scores during the evaluations, it lacks practical significance in
providing meaningful responses.

Finally, in the process of selecting suitable evaluation mod-
els, We test the performance of various LLMs as evaluators

As shown in Figure 8, we give out example of the evidence
retrieved by PICOs-RAG and the current RAG method. The
original method retrieves a 69-year-old male patient case
the evidence retrieved in the case
as evidence. Moreover,
pertains to pneumonia, which is distantly related to the query
about nasal congestion. In contrast, our PICOs-RAG method
successfully extracts more relevant symptoms, such as sinusitis
and allergies in young patients, which are more closely aligned
with the query. The PICOs-RAG approach leads to more
focused evidence retrieval and responses that more effectively
address the key points.

Regarding the accuracy of each component, we obtain
a dataset that includes the classification results of medical
disciplines from the model itself. For medical texts, the classi-
fication of user input is often considered a priory knowledge.

results from the prompt responsible for sentence ex-
pansion and normalization. The performance comparison
is shown in Table II. Under the evaluation Method B,
we observe a slight
in the accuracy of
improvement
response. However, the accuracy evaluated by Method A
significantly decreases. We analyze the reason for this
phenomenon and conclude that the lack of discipline-
specific restrictions in the query leads the model
to
expand on the question in a more generalized manner. As
a result, the responses generated by the LLM are more
comprehensive but lack focus. This leads the evaluation
model
the response more thoroughly
addresses a more comprehensive response. In contrast,
Method A considers the response to lack the professional
interpretation of discipline knowledge compared to the
gold answer. Thereby the method without classification
fails to accurately meet the user’s intent. Consequently,
such a huge decrease in Method A is Contrary to the
main argument in this paper.

to believe that

• w/o expanding: We question whether expanded queries
are easier to answer compared to original inputs. There-
fore, we directly apply the PICOs extraction method to
the original queries and then pose them to the gener-
ative model. This approach, without the LLM expanded
queries, results in PICOs extraction that is not sufficiently
targeted just as shown in Figure 8. Consequently, the
model’s output remains a huge decrease in both evalu-
ation methods shown in Table II.

• w/o PICOs: Next, we conduct ablation experiments on
the performance of the PICO extraction method. As
shown in the fourth line of Table II, directly submitting
the expanded information to the retrieval component
decreased retrieval accuracy due to the noise introduced.
This noise leads to the identification of many irrelevant
indexes, which has a significantly negative impact on the
final question-answering performance.

• w PIO: Finally, we also test the type of PICO extracted
components. Currently, there are various classification
methods for the components of clinical articles. We
conclude the primary distinction is whether to apply
Comparison (C) and Study design (S) [11, 15]. Since our
queries are sourced from online medical Q&A platforms,
the query does not require evidence grading. Therefore,
this experiment focuses on validating which method,
PICO or PIO, is more efficient. As shown in the last row
of Table II, the results of the two methods are relatively
close. Therefore, we ultimately select the more effective
PICO method.

V. CONCLUSION

In the field of EBM, there is an increasing need for robust
automated tools to assist doctors in medical tasks. However,
practical medical scenarios present numerous challenges and
limitations for the LLMs application. To address this chal-
lenge, we propose a query rewriting and PICO extraction
improving the performance of RAG in
strategy aimed at

Fig. 8. PICOs can retrieve better evidence than the original RAG method.
Without the PICOs rewriting, the original rewriting retrieves too much noise
and the evidence may be unhelpful for the generator

However,
to address the scenario where fully open-ended
questions might lack clear user classification, we train an
input question classification model using the BioBERT model.
Following the dataset setting, we classify the inputs into 22
medical disciplines and achieved an accuracy of 70.2% on this
dataset. This result demonstrates that the classification task can
be successfully finished anyway.

C. Ablation Experiment

TABLE II
ABLATION EXPERIMENTS WITH BAICHUAN2-13B.

Methods to evaluate Method A Method B

PICOs
w/o classification
w/o expansion
w/o PICO
w/ PIO

84.8%
72.8%
64.6%
70.4%
82.6%

39.4%
41.0%
22.6%
21.8%
39.2%

As shown in Table II, we conduct four different ablation
experiments to validate the importance of each component of
our method:

• w/o classification: First, we conduct a test on the clas-
sification of user inputs. We exclude the classification

medical natural question-answering environments. We conduct
practical tests on our method and validate its effectiveness.
We hope this work will assist researchers in the medical field,
facilitating the safer and more effective deployment of LLMs
in medical applications.

VI. ETHICAL STATEMENT

All datasets used in this study are open source, ensuring
there are no ethical concerns regarding patient information
disclosure.

REFERENCES

[1] Fakhare Alam, Hamed Babaei Giglou, and Khalid Mah-
mood Malik. “Automated clinical knowledge graph
generation framework for evidence based medicine”.
In: Expert Systems with Applications 233 (2023),
p. 120964.

[2] Patrizio Armeni et al. “Digital twins in healthcare: is it
the beginning of a new era of evidence-based medicine?
A critical review”. In: Journal of Personalized Medicine
12.8 (2022), p. 1255.

[3] Michael Borenstein et al. Introduction to meta-analysis.

[4]

John Wiley & Sons, 2021.
Jan Clusmann et al. “The future landscape of large
language models in medicine”. In: Communications
Medicine 3.1 (2023), p. 141.

[5] Abhimanyu Dubey et al. “The Llama 3 Herd of Mod-
els”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783 (2024).
[6] Carol Friedman, George Hripcsak, et al. “Natural lan-
guage processing and its future in medicine”. In: Acad
Med 74.8 (1999), pp. 890–5.

[8]

[7] Carol Friedman, Thomas C Rindflesch, and Milton
Corn. “Natural language processing: state of the art
and prospects for significant progress, a workshop spon-
sored by the National Library of Medicine”. In: Journal
of biomedical informatics 46.5 (2013), pp. 765–773.
Junqing He, Mingming Fu, and Manshu Tu. “Applying
deep matching networks to Chinese medical question
answering: a study and a dataset”. In: BMC medical
informatics and decision making 19 (2019), pp. 91–100.
[9] Yan Hu et al. “Towards precise PICO extraction from
abstracts of randomized controlled trials using a section-
specific learning approach”. In: Bioinformatics 39.9
(2023), btad542.

[10] Lei Huang et al. “A survey on hallucination in large
language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and
open questions”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.05232
(2023).

[11] Di Jin and Peter Szolovits. “Pico element detection in
medical text via long short-term memory neural net-
works”. In: Proceedings of the BioNLP 2018 workshop.
2018, pp. 67–75.
Jerry Liu. LlamaIndex. Nov. 2022. DOI: 10 . 5281 /
zenodo . 1234. URL: https : / / github . com / jerryjliu /
llama index.

[12]

[13] Xinbei Ma et al. “Query rewriting for

retrieval-
augmented large language models”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.14283 (2023).

[14] Shengyu Mao et al. “RaFe: Ranking Feedback Im-
proves Query Rewriting for RAG”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.14431 (2024).

[15] Abigail M Methley et al. “PICO, PICOS and SPIDER:
a comparison study of specificity and sensitivity in
three search tools for qualitative systematic reviews”.
In: BMC health services research 14.1 (2014), pp. 1–10.
[16] Prakash M Nadkarni, Lucila Ohno-Machado, and
Wendy W Chapman. “Natural language processing: an
introduction”. In: Journal of
the American Medical
Informatics Association 18.5 (2011), pp. 544–551.
[17] Habtamu Setegn Ngusie et al. “The effect of capacity
building evidence-based medicine training on its im-
plementation among healthcare professionals in South-
west Ethiopia: a controlled quasi-experimental outcome
evaluation”. In: BMC medical informatics and decision
making 23.1 (2023), p. 172.

[18] OpenAI. GPT-4. Accessed: 2024-08-16. 2024. URL:

https://openai.com/gpt-4.

[19] Karan Singhal et al. “Large language models en-
code clinical knowledge”. In: Nature 620.7972 (2023),
pp. 172–180.

[20] Karan Singhal et al. “Towards expert-level medical
question answering with large language models”. In:
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.09617 (2023).

[21] Vivek Subbiah. “The next generation of evidence-based
medicine”. In: Nature medicine 29.1 (2023), pp. 49–58.
[22] Hugo Touvron et al. “Llama 2: Open foundation
In: arXiv preprint

and fine-tuned chat models”.
arXiv:2307.09288 (2023).

[23] Akhil Vaid et al. “Generative Large Language Mod-
els are autonomous practitioners of evidence-based
medicine”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.02851 (2024).
[24] Aiyuan Yang et al. “Baichuan 2: Open large-scale
language models”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.10305
(2023).

[25] Hongbo Zhang et al. “HuatuoGPT,

towards Taming
Language Model to Be a Doctor”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.15075 (2023).
Jiaxing Zhang et al. “Fengshenbang 1.0: Being the
Foundation of Chinese Cognitive Intelligence”.
In:
CoRR abs/2209.02970 (2022).

[26]

[27] Yue Zhang et al. “Siren’s Song in the AI Ocean: A
Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models”.
In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.01219 (2023).