RAG-Stack: Co-Optimizing RAG Quality and Performance
From the Vector Database Perspective

Wenqi Jiang
Systems Group, ETH Zurich
wenqi.jiang@inf.ethz.ch

5
2
0
2

t
c
O
3
2

]

B
D
.
s
c
[

1
v
6
9
2
0
2
.
0
1
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as one of the
most prominent applications of vector databases. By integrating
documents retrieved from a database into the prompt of a large
language model (LLM), RAG enables more reliable and informative
content generation. While there has been extensive research on
vector databases, many open research problems remain once they
are considered in the wider context of end-to-end RAG pipelines.
One practical yet challenging problem is how to jointly optimize
both system performance and generation quality in RAG, which is
significantly more complex than it appears due to the numerous
knobs on both the algorithmic side (spanning models and databases)
and the systems side (from software to hardware). In this paper, we
present RAG-Stack, a three-pillar blueprint for quality–performance
co-optimization in RAG systems. RAG-Stack comprises: (1) RAG-IR,
an intermediate representation that serves as an abstraction layer
to decouple quality and performance aspects; (2) RAG-CM, a
cost model for estimating system performance given an RAG-IR;
and (3) RAG-PE, a plan exploration algorithm that searches for
high-quality, high-performance RAG configurations. We believe
this three-pillar blueprint will become the de facto paradigm for
RAG quality–performance co-optimization in the years to come.

1 Introduction
Vector database has become a hot topic in recent years due to the
rapid advancement of machine learning and generative AI. Among
its many applications, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has
emerged as one of the most prominent use cases in the LLM era. By
incorporating relevant documents retrieved from databases into
the LLM prompt as shown in Figure 1, RAG improves the reliability,
timeliness, and comprehensiveness of generated responses [3, 5, 16].
As a result, RAG has become the industry standard for knowledge-
intensive natural language processing tasks [3, 15, 16, 18, 19].

Well-Tuned Vector Databases Alone Are Not Enough for
RAG Serving. We have witnessed extensive research on optimizing
query processing in vector databases (referred to as retrievals
throughout this paper for brevity), particularly in terms of quality
(e.g., recall) and performance (e.g., QPS, latency), often on standard
benchmarks with a predefined dataset including a fixed number of
encoded vectors, a specified Top-𝐾, and a target recall requirement.
While research on retrieval itself is undoubtedly fundamental,
many open problems remain when integrating vector databases
into end-to-end RAG pipelines, because the previous assumptions
(optimizing retrievals in isolation on well-defined benchmarks) no
longer hold. On the other hand, there is a vast number of configurable
knobs in RAG spanning both algorithmic and system aspects, all of
which influence end-to-end RAG system performance (e.g., latency,

Figure 1: A simple RAG pipeline with models and a database.

throughput) and generation quality (e.g., accuracy, reliability), making
it essential to move beyond tuning vector databases in isolation.

Algorithm Configuration Space. There are numerous algorith-
mic factors that influence the generation quality of a RAG pipeline.
For example, how is the database configured? This includes decisions
such as document chunking strategies, choice of embedding models,
index configurations, and retrieval quality requirements such as
recall. In addition to the database, should auxiliary models be used
before and after retrieval? These may include a query rewriter
that rephrases or decomposes the user’s original question, and
a result reranker that re-scores the relevance of the retrieved
Top-𝐾 documents. Once relevant content is retrieved, how many
documents should be incorporated into the prompt? Many factors
that are typically taken for granted in standard retrieval benchmarks
become essential variables in this end-to-end context. Notably, the
optimal configuration not only depends on these many factors, but
also (a) varies across applications and coupled LLMs, and (b) evolves
as new retrieval techniques and models emerge.

System Design Space. There is also a wide range of system
design choices beyond the database itself, as performance and effi-
ciency must be optimized for the entire RAG pipeline as a whole. First,
there are software-level options, such as the choice of databases and
LLM serving frameworks. Second, there are various hardware op-
tions: depending on the type and availability of inference hardware,
should the database run on CPUs (in-memory or on-disk), leverage
accelerators such as GPUs or FPGAs, or combine different hardware
in a heterogeneous setup? Third, end-to-end RAG scheduling and
resource management decisions must be made, such as how to al-
locate hardware resources across RAG components (e.g., database,
query rewriter, result reranker, and the main LLM) and how to config-
ure batching policies. Just as optimal RAG algorithm configurations
evolve, optimal system configurations for a given RAG algorithm will
also shift over time as software and hardware continue to advance.
Research Gap: Co-Optimizing Quality and Performance.
Given the many additional dimensions introduced by RAG, the op-
timization objective naturally shifts from optimizing recall and QPS

What are Thomas Edison's most notable inventions?These inventions, including the phonograph, the motion picture camera, and the electric …User question:Thomas invented phonograph, motion picture camera, …LLMVector databasetextsvectors214Retrieved passages:Generated answer:3RerankQuery Rewrite3 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY

Wenqi Jiang et al.

affect quality continue to emerge — such as KV-cache reuse [20]
or speculative retrieval [13] — RAG-IR allows such techniques to
be explicitly annotated within the pipeline as well.

Cost Model. The second component of RAG-Stack RAG-CM, a
cost model that estimates system performance given a specific RAG
algorithm configuration. In particular, the algorithm configuration
is first turned into its corresponding RAG-IR representation. Based
on the available hardware and software stack, RAG-CM then returns
either the actual performance 𝑝 or an estimated performance ˆ𝑝.
RAG-CM can take various forms, including ML-based cost models,
analytical models, or empirical lookup tables derived from profiling
on real hardware. RAG-CM enables: (1) algorithm researchers
to explore quality–performance trade-offs without needing to
understand the underlying systems; and (2) systematic exploration
of the quality–performance Pareto frontier, as we will discuss next.
Plan Exploration. The third pillar of RAG-Stack is RAG-PE,
a plan exploration algorithm that iteratively navigates the RAG
algorithm configuration space to identify the (near-) Pareto frontier
between quality and performance, while minimizing the number
of evaluations. In each iteration, RAG-PE evaluates the system
performance (via RAG-CM and RAG-IR) and generation quality of a
given algorithm configuration, then predicts the next configuration
to explore based on previous quality–performance observations.
Various exploration strategies can be used within RAG-PE, such
as grid search, genetic algorithms, or reinforcement learning.
The search space can also be constrained based on deployment
requirements, such as restricting the set of available models or
targeting a specific hardware cluster.

Research Opportunities. By proposing these three pillars,
we also discuss three key research gaps. First, should index
configuration be part of the RAG workload abstraction? While
it may seem natural for algorithm researchers to specify a recall
requirement and leave system optimization to infrastructure
experts, two indexes achieving the same recall can return different
document sets for individual queries, potentially leading to different
RAG generation quality. Second, there is a clear need for more
general and accurate cost models for retrievals. These models
should support a variety of index types, distributed retrieval, and
different hardware backends. Finally, predicting the next database
configuration to evaluate in the vast RAG configuration space is
crucial, as rebuilding the database can be extremely costly —for
example, switching to a new index type, modifying the chunking
strategy, or re-encoding vectors with a different embedding model.
Contributions. To our knowledge, RAG-Stack is the first blue-
print for systematic quality–performance co-optimization in RAG
serving. We not only introduce the workload abstraction (RAG-IR),
the cost model (RAG-CM), and the plan exploration algorithm (RAG-
PE), but also outline future research opportunities in each area. We
believe RAG-Stack will become a de facto paradigm for optimizing
RAG serving and a foundation for continued research in this space.

2 RAG Complexity
While the key idea of RAG — combining an LLM with a database —
may seem simple , RAG serving is significantly more complex than
it appears due to the vast algorithmic configuration space and the
many system-level deployment options.

Figure 2: RAG-Stack systematically explores the perfor-
mance–quality Pareto frontier for RAG serving.

in standalone database to advancing the performance–quality Pareto
frontier for end-to-end RAG serving. Due to the complexity of the
RAG landscape as explained above, it is not surprising that existing
research has focused on optimizing either the quality or performance.
One might suggest that performance–quality co-optimization for
RAG can be achieved through expert-based tuning, but such an
approach is often suboptimal and, in many cases, impractical. This
is not only because it is challenging to find an individual or a tightly
coordinated team with expertise spanning RAG algorithms, database
systems, and inference software/hardware. More importantly, as
discussed earlier, the optimal RAG algorithm–system configuration
varies across applications and evolves over time with the emergence
of new retrieval techniques, models, and software/hardware stacks,
making expert knowledge brittle and quickly outdated.

RAG-Stack Overview. In this paper, we propose RAG-Stack, a
three-pillar blueprint for systematically co-optimizing quality and
performance in RAG serving. As shown in Figure 2, RAG-Stack con-
sists of: (1) RAG-IR, an Intermediate Representation and abstraction
layer that bridges RAG algorithms and systems; (2) RAG-CM, a
Cost Model on the systems side that predicts performance given
a RAG algorithm; and (3) RAG-PE, a Plan Exploration strategy
that navigates the RAG configuration space. The key idea is to let
RAG-PE iteratively explore the RAG algorithm space, where in each
iteration, the generation quality is evaluated and the maximum
achievable system performance is predicted by RAG-CM using the
algorithm’s RAG-IR representation. Guided by prior evaluations
of quality and performance, RAG-PE predicts the next configuration
to explore that is likely to approach the performance–quality Pareto
frontier. We now elaborate on each of these three pillars:

Abstraction. First, RAG-IR provides a well-defined abstraction
between the quality and performance dimensions, while remaining
extensible to emerging RAG algorithm–system co-design techniques.
The goal of this abstraction is to allow ML and systems researchers
to consider the quality and performance optimization separately.
At its core, RAG-IR is a collection of dataflow graphs, where each
node represents a model or a database component, annotated
with detailed attributes such as model size, sequence length, and
search parameters. Edges between nodes capture the volume of data
exchanged between components. This abstraction enables a clean
separation between properties that impact only quality (e.g., the
version of the model used with the same architecture and size) and
those that influence only performance (e.g., the choice of hardware
for retrieval). As algorithm-system co-design techniques that may

Algorithm Conﬁg. Space:System Design Space:Intermediate RepresentationRAG-IR: Abstract the workloadRAG-CMPredict PerformanceAlgorithm Conﬁg.RAG-PE:Explore algorithm configsLLM, document preprocessing, retrieval algorithm, Top-K, query rewriting, result reranking, retrieval frequency, content integration, …Retrieval/inference hardware, resource allocation, softwareframeworks, index conﬁguration, algorithm-system co-design, …WorkloadAttributesPerformanceEvaluationQualityEvaluationRAG-Stack : Co-Optimizing RAG Quality and Performance
From the Vector Database Perspective

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY

Table 1: RAG algorithm configuration space from the database perspective.

Category

Configuration

Explanation

Number of documents
Document chunking
Retrieval method
Embedding model
Top-𝐾
Retrieval quality
Query rewriting
Result reranking

Retrieval frequency
Integration method
Relevance filtering

Ranges from a single document to enterprise-scale corpora to the entire internet.
Fixed or variable chunk sizes, and whether there are token overlaps between chunks.
Vector search, keyword-based matching (e.g., BM25), hybrid search, etc.
The model used to encode each passage into a database vector (if vector search is used).
Number of the most relevant documents to return per query.
Quality requirement measured by recall, precision, or other metrics.
Whether and how to rewrite the original query (e.g., rephrasing or decomposing into sub-questions).
Whether to rerank retrieved results, and which model is used for reranking.

One retrieval per generation or multiple retrievals (either at a fixed interval or triggered dynamically).
Retrieved content can be integrated either through the prompt or using pre-computed KV cache.
Whether the model is guided to ignore irrelevant retrieved content during generation.

Database

Model-Database
Interaction

Table 2: RAG system design space.

Category

Configuration

Explanation

Hardware

Software

Retrieval hardware
Inference hardware
Resource mapping

Inference library
Database
Index
Quantization

CPU-based (in-memory or on-disk) or accelerator-based (e.g., GPU, FPGA).
Hardware used to serve the main LLM and auxiliary models (e.g., rewriter, reranker), such as GPU or TPU.
Allocation of compute resources and placement of RAG components across hardware.

LLM serving frameworks such as vLLM, SGLang, etc.
Relational or vector databases (e.g., PostgreSQL, Milvus), or specialized search libraries (e.g., FAISS or ScaNN).
Type of index used, such as inverted-file indexes or graph-based indexes, as well as the index parameters.
Whether quantization is applied to database vectors (e.g., product quantization or scalar quantization).

Cross-Stack
Optimizations

KV-cache reuse
Speculative retrieval

Store and reuse the KV cache of frequently accessed documents, at the cost of losing cross-document attention.
Hiding retrieval latency via approximate document prefetching at the cost of retrieval quality.

2.1 Algorithm Configuration Space
We define a RAG algorithm configuration as a combination of model
selection, database configuration, and the method used to integrate
retrieved content from the database into the model — all these factors
influence generation quality, and the optimal configuration varies
across applications (medical question answering, general-purpose
RAG, etc.). We summarize the detailed configurations in Table 1 and
briefly explain the key ones below.

From the database perspective, there are many configurations
to be tuned. For example: How many documents are indexed?
Are documents chunked into shorter passages? Should we use a
vector-based index or a keyword-based one? Which embedding
model is used to convert documents into vectors? What is the size
of Top-𝐾 nearest neighbors retrieved per query? What level of
retrieval quality is required (e.g., 95% recall)? Should the natural
language query be rewritten before retrieval? Should retrieval
results be reranked or filtered after retrieval?

From the database-model interaction perspective, there are
not only choices of which LLM to use, but also different ways to
integrate the retrieved content. For example: Is retrieval performed
once at the beginning of generation, or multiple times during
generation? How is the retrieved content incorporated — via prompt
tokens or through KV-cache insertion (without cross-attention
mechanism between documents)? Is the model guided to ignore
retrieved documents that are less relevant?

Note that for a given application, there may be multiple RAG algo-
rithm configurations that can achieve the same generation quality.
For example, to ensure sufficient knowledge is integrated into the
LLM output, one could choose among the following strategies: (a)
build a high-quality index and enforce a high-recall retrieval policy,
then pass only a small number of top-ranked documents to the

LLM [3]; (b) use a relaxed recall constraint during retrieval, return
a larger set of candidate documents, and apply a reranker model to
select the most relevant ones [6]; or (c) directly feed a large number
of retrieved documents into the LLM and let the model implicitly
rank and filter them during generation [1]. While these different
algorithmic choices may yield comparable quality, they can result in
different performance characteristics in terms of latency, throughput,
and the distribution of workload across RAG components.

2.2 System Design Space
Given a RAG algorithm configuration, there are many ways to
implement a RAG system, as overviewed in Table 2. From the
hardware perspective, we need to choose the type and amount of
compute resources (e.g., CPUs and/or accelerators), and map each
RAG component (including models and databases) to the allocated
hardware resources. From the software perspective, we must not
only choose inference libraries and vector databases, but also choose
the indexing algorithm and its parameters.

Apart from these basic system configurations, there are emerging
cross-stack performance optimizations that modify the original RAG
algorithm and can consequently affect generation quality. One ex-
ample is storing and reusing per-document KV caches for frequently
accessed documents [14, 20], allowing the model to directly integrate
the stored KV cache of retrieved documents without recomputation.
While this method reduces compute cost, it discards cross-attention
between the Top-𝐾 retrieved documents, which may degrade output
quality [20]. Another example is speculative retrieval, which hides
retrieval latency during generation by prefetching documents using
approximate queries — especially useful in iterative retrieval scenar-
ios [13, 21]. While this technique improves both latency and through-
put, the approximation may result in suboptimal retrieved content.

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY

Wenqi Jiang et al.

In summary, these cross-stack algorithm-system co-design solutions
offer performance gains but may introduce trade-offs in quality, and
should be selectively enabled based on application requirements.

3 Goal: Exploring the Pareto Frontier

between RAG Quality and Performance

Given the complexity of RAG algorithms and systems, existing
research has largely focused on either improving generation quality
from the algorithmic side [1, 3, 6, 17], or optimizing performance
by building efficient systems [7, 8, 11, 12].

Problem Formulation. However, real-world deployments often
aim to offer users high-quality RAG solutions at different cost levels.
This raises a fundamental question: how can we efficiently navigate
the RAG algorithm and system configuration space to identify the
quality–performance Pareto frontier?

More specifically, the problem can be formulated as follows: given
a set of available models 𝑀, a dataset 𝐷 used to construct the database,
an RAG application 𝐴, and a collection of hardware resources 𝐻 (e.g.,
CPUs, GPUs), identify the (near-)Pareto frontier between quality 𝑞
and performance 𝑝, while minimizing the number of trials over RAG
algorithm and system configurations.

Challenges in Quality-Performance Co-Optimization.
Given the large algorithmic and system design spaces, the joint
optimization problem spans their Cartesian product, making
exhaustive evaluation intractable. One might suggest assembling
a team of experts who understand both the algorithmic and systems
aspects of RAG to manually search for the quality-performance
Frontier for each application.

However, expert-driven tuning has two key limitations: First, it
is difficult to find individuals or teams with deep expertise across
models, databases, inference frameworks, and hardware, due to the
large knowledge gap between these domains.

Second, expert knowledge is often not transferable across deploy-
ment settings or over time. This is because RAG configurations
that work well in one setting (with specific application and
software/hardware infrastructure) may become suboptimal as the
surrounding ecosystem changes. For example, two organizations
may face different constraints across the stack: one may use GPT
while the other uses Gemini; one may rely on vector databases, the
other on specialized vector search libraries; and their hardware
backends may differ (e.g., GPUs, TPUs, etc.). These differences
can lead to vastly different RAG algorithm–system combinations
on the Pareto frontier. More importantly, even within the same
organization, the RAG ecosystem is continuously evolving: new,
more capable models are regularly released; new retrieval algorithms
introduce different quality–performance trade-offs; software stacks
for LLM inference and vector search improve rapidly; and hardware
capabilities for both retrieval and generation shift over time.

4 Proposed Solution: RAG-Stack
Overview. In this paper, we propose RAG-Stack, a three-pillar
blueprint for systematically identifying the quality–performance
Pareto frontier in RAG serving by navigating the large joint
algorithm–system design space. The key idea is to explore the RAG
space iteratively from the algorithmic side rather than the systems
side. This is because each algorithm configuration corresponds

Figure 3: RAG-IR is a collection of dataflow graphs. Each node
in the graph is either a database or an inference component.

to a specific generation quality and a set of optimal system
configurations (with trade-offs across latency, throughput, etc.),
while a system configuration can typically support almost arbitrary
RAG algorithms if sufficient hardware resources are allocated.

More specifically, the plan exploration process is supported
by the following three pillars. The first pillar, RAG-IR, is a RAG
workload abstraction that decouples algorithm-level quality
optimization from system-level performance optimization (§4.1).
The second pillar, RAG-CM, is a cost model that estimates or
returns the true system performance for a given RAG algorithm
configuration described using RAG-IR (§4.2). The third pillar,
RAG-PE, is a plan exploration algorithm that leverages RAG-CM
to guide the search over RAG algorithm configurations, aiming to
find the quality–performance Pareto frontier given the user-defined
application and available hardware resources (§4.3).

4.1 RAG-IR as the Workload Abstraction
The Need for Proper Abstraction. Given the significant
knowledge gap between the algorithmic and system spaces and the
complexity inherent in each, we envision that quality–performance
co-optimization requires an abstraction that cleanly separates the
quality and performance dimensions. In particular, the abstraction
should capture the minimal set of information about an algorithm
configuration needed to estimate system performance. RAGO [11]
introduced RAG-Schema, which models RAG pipelines by describing
the connections between model and database components, under the
assumption of homogeneous workloads (e.g., fixed sequence lengths
and pipeline paths) across all requests. However, modern RAG work-
loads are increasingly agentic and heterogeneous: different requests
may trigger different execution paths — for example, one query
may invoke a query rewriter or iterative retrieval, while another
may not. As a result, capturing per-request workload variability
is critical to building a meaningful RAG workload abstraction.

Abstraction Overview. We propose RAG-IR, a collection of
flexible dataflow graphs defined per request, designed to capture
the diverse and agentic nature of modern RAG workloads, as shown
in Figure 3. Each node represents either a model or a retrieval
component, annotated with performance-relevant attributes, while
an edge represents execution paths. As summarized in Table 3, RAG-
IR captures only the minimal and essential information required

M0D0M1M0D0M1M0D0D1M3M2M0D0M1Request 1:Request 2:Request 3:Request 4:Query2vec ModelDense Transformer1B parametersInput: 25 tokensDatabase10M vectors768 dimensionsRecall: R@10=95%Main ModelMoE Transformer70B parametersInput: 1040 tokensOutput: 268 tokensM1Rewriter ModelReranker ModelInternet Retrieval3KB9KBRAG-Stack : Co-Optimizing RAG Quality and Performance
From the Vector Database Perspective

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY

Table 3: RAG-IR is a dataflow graph composed of nodes and
edges, each annotated with the following attributes.

Category

Attributes

Node (Database)

Node (Model)

Number of rows
Vector dimensionality
Top-𝐾
Retrieval quality
(Optional) Index configurations
(Optional) Enable speculative retrieval

Model architecture
Model size
Input sequence length
Output sequence length
(Optional) Enable KV-cache reuse

Edge (Communication)

Amount of data transfer

from the algorithm configuration space (as described in Table 1),
omitting properties that affect only quality — for example, specific
model versions or training data. Additionally, RAG-IR annotates
workload-specific characteristics such as input/output sequence
lengths per inference component as well as inter-component data
movement to support fine-grained performance estimation.

Exposing Algorithm–System Co-Design Solutions. As
discussed in §2.2, there are emerging algorithm–system co-design
techniques that improve system performance but at the potential
cost of generation quality. Some popular examples include KV-cache
reuse for frequently accessed documents [14, 20] and speculative
retrieval [13, 21]. We expose such techniques as optional attributes
in Table 3; when enabled, it is the responsibility of algorithm
designers to re-evaluate end-to-end generation quality.

Research Gap 1: Should index configuration be part of
the RAG workload abstraction?

An open question in the design of RAG-IR is whether database
index configurations should be explicitly provided from the algorith-
mic side. On one hand, RAG algorithm researchers often select the in-
dex type and tuning parameters as part of the algorithm design, since
generation quality is directly evaluated based on the retrieved results
produced by that index. However, the chosen index may not yield
optimal system performance. Thus, an alternative approach is to ex-
pose only a quality requirement (e.g., 95% recall) in RAG-IR, leaving
system designers free to select and optimize the index configuration
to meet this target. The challenge with this approach is that even if
an alternative index satisfies the same recall threshold, it may return
a different set of documents, potentially affecting the end-to-end
generation quality. As a result, we treat the database index config-
uration as an optional input to the abstraction in the current version
of RAG-IR, as shown in Table 3: providing explicit index parameters
guarantees generation quality but may sacrifice performance, while
delegating index selection to the system side enables performance
optimization at the potential cost of quality variation. We believe
future research is needed to systematically evaluate such trade-offs.

4.2 RAG-CM for Performance Prediction
Objectives of the Cost Model. The second pillar of RAG-Stack is
RAG-CM, a cost model that estimates or returns the exact system

performance for a given RAG algorithm configuration. Given an
algorithm described by RAG-IR and a set of available software and
hardware resources, RAG-CM aims to predict system performance
in terms of Time-To-First-Token (TTFT) latency, Time-Per-Output-
Token (TPOT) latency, Requests Per Second (RPS), Requests Per
Dollar, and other relevant metrics. Since there are often trade-offs be-
tween these metrics, the cost model should ideally expose the Pareto
frontier across them. Optionally, RAG-CM may also suggest the opti-
mal system configurations on the performance Pareto frontier, such
as how to allocate hardware resources across RAG components or
how to partition models and databases across multiple servers or ac-
celerators. There are several approaches to constructing a cost model:
Analytical Cost Model. The first approach is to use an
analytical model. One example is the roofline model, where the total
execution time is estimated as the maximum of the compute and
memory access time, computed based on the total number of FLOPs
and memory accesses divided by the hardware’s peak compute
throughput and memory bandwidth. More advanced analytical
models [2, 11] can offer higher accuracy by incorporating detailed
operator-level cost breakdowns, replacing peak bandwidth or
FLOP/s estimates with calibrated lookup tables, evaluating various
sharding strategies for models and databases, and accounting
for data movement across machines. Overall, analytical models
provide an interpretable way to predict system performance, though
improving their accuracy often requires calibration on the target
hardware and software stack (e.g., benchmarking achievable peak
performance under various conditions).

ML-based Cost Model. A second approach to performance
prediction is using machine learning. These models can be trained
on performance data collected either from analytical models or from
real measurements on hardware and software stacks. Compared
to analytical models, ML-based approaches may achieve higher
accuracy when trained on real-system data, but they require
extensive data collection and often sacrifice interpretability.

Real Profiling. A third approach is to profile real systems so as to
measure the ground-truth performance. It is most suitable when the
system design space is relatively small — for example, if there is only
one GPU and one CPU server, there is no need to consider partition-
ing models or databases. However, for larger workloads spanning
hundreds of GPUs or CPU servers, the number of possible system
configurations — such as sharding and parallelization strategies —
can be huge, making exhaustive profiling highly time-consuming.

Research Gap 2: Accurate cost modeling for retrieval.

While several cost models have been developed for LLM infer-
ence [2, 4, 11], accurate performance modeling for retrievals remains
largely underexplored. Existing retrieval performance models [10,
11] only support the IVF index [9], and they either target specific hard-
ware platforms [10] or assume simple data partitioning strategies for
distributed search [11]. Further research is clearly needed to develop
accurate and general cost models that support a variety of index types
(e.g., IVF, graph-based, LSH), distributed retrieval (with diverse shard-
ing strategies and load-balancing scenarios), and different hardware
backends (e.g., CPUs, GPUs, FPGAs, in-memory or on-disk systems).

Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY

Wenqi Jiang et al.

Algorithm 1: Example Plan Exploration Algorithm RAG-PE
Input: Maximum iterations 𝑁 , available models 𝑀,

dataset 𝐷, RAG application 𝐴, hardware resources 𝐻 .

Output: Set of Pareto-optimal configurations C

1 Initialize Pareto configuration list C ← ∅ ;
2 Initialize algorithm configuration 𝑎0 ← Init(𝑀,𝐷,𝐴) ;
3 for 𝑖 =1 to 𝑁 do
4

Evaluate quality 𝑞𝑖 ← EvalQual(𝑎𝑖,𝐴) ;
Predict performance ˆ𝑝𝑖 ← RAG-CM(RAG-IR(𝑎𝑖 ),𝐻 ) ;
if (𝑞𝑖, ˆ𝑝𝑖 ) is on the Pareto frontier then
C ← C.Update{(𝑎𝑖,𝑞𝑖, ˆ𝑝𝑖 )} ;

5

6

7

8

Configuration: 𝑎𝑖+1 ← RAG-PE.GetNext(𝑎0:𝑖,𝑞0:𝑖, ˆ𝑝0:𝑖 ) ;

9 return C

4.3 RAG-PE for Configuration Space Navigation
Objectives of the Plan Explorer. Given the vast space of possible
algorithmic and system configurations for RAG serving, the goal
of RAG-PE is to efficiently identify algorithm–system combinations
— each defined as a RAG serving plan — that lie on the (near-) Pareto
frontier between quality and performance, while minimizing the
number of exploration iterations. This exploration can be performed
under various constraints, such as a set of available models 𝑀, a
given retrieval dataset 𝐷, a specific RAG application 𝐴, and a pool
of hardware resources 𝐻 (e.g., CPUs, GPUs).

A General Plan Exploration Algorithm. In each iteration,
RAG-PE selects an algorithm configuration, evaluates its generation
quality, and estimates the corresponding system performance. If the
result lies on the Pareto frontier, it is added to the result set. Based
on past evaluations, RAG-PE then determines the next algorithm
configuration to explore.

Research Gap 3: Predicting the next database config-
uration to evaluate.

An open question here is how to choose the next configuration
to evaluate (line 8 in Algorithm 1). In highly constrained settings —
e.g., with only a few available models or limited hardware resources
— simple approaches like grid search might suffice. However, in most
real-world scenarios, the configuration space is large and complex,
requiring alternative approaches such as genetic algorithms
or reinforcement learning to efficiently explore the space. For
learning-based approaches in particular, the core challenge lies in
how to predict or select the next promising configuration to evaluate.
Different algorithm configuration changes come with different costs:
some changes are relatively easy to make, such as swapping the
model or adjusting the Top-K value; however, it is costly to rebuild
the database — for instance, switching to a different index type,
modifying the chunking strategy, or using a different embedding
model to re-encode the database vectors. We believe efficient plan
exploration is an important direction that warrants further research.

5 Conclusion and Future Work
We present RAG-Stack, the first blueprint for systematically optimiz-
ing RAG serving from both performance and quality perspectives.

We are working on building a prototype of RAG-Stack using a limited
set of models, system components, and hardware platforms to
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed combination between
abstraction RAG-IR, cost model RAG-CM, and plan explorer RAG-PE.
We believe RAG-Stack will serve as the foundation for future research
on quality–performance co-optimization in RAG serving systems.

References
[1] Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023.
Self-RAG: Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Reflection.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11511 (2023).

[2] Abhimanyu Bambhaniya, Ritik Raj, Geonhwa Jeong, Souvik Kundu, Sudarshan
Srinivasan, Midhilesh Elavazhagan, Madhu Kumar, and Tushar Krishna. 2024.
Demystifying platform requirements for diverse llm inference use cases. arXiv
e-prints (2024), arXiv–2406.

[3] Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoffmann, Trevor Cai, Eliza
Rutherford, Katie Millican, George Bm Van Den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau,
Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark, et al. 2022.
Improving Language Models by
Retrieving From Trillions of Tokens. In ICML.

[4] Shiheng Cao, Junmin Wu, Junshi Chen, Hong An, and Zhibin Yu. 2025. AMALI:
An Analytical Model for Accurately Modeling LLM Inference on Modern GPUs. In
Proceedings of the 52nd Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture.
1495–1508.

[5] Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody,
Steven Truitt, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From Local to Global: A Graph RAG Ap-
proach to Query-Focused Summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130 (2024).
[6] Michael Glass, Gaetano Rossiello, Md Faisal Mahbub Chowdhury, Ankita Rajaram
Naik, Pengshan Cai, and Alfio Gliozzo. 2022. Re2G: Retrieve, Rerank, Generate.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.06300 (2022).

[7] Bodun Hu, Luis Pabon, Saurabh Agarwal, and Aditya Akella. 2025. Patchwork:
A Unified Framework for RAG Serving. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.07833 (2025).
[8] Zhengding Hu, Vibha Murthy, Zaifeng Pan, Wanlu Li, Xiaoyi Fang, Yufei Ding,
and Yuke Wang. 2025. HedraRAG: Coordinating LLM Generation and Database
Retrieval in Heterogeneous RAG Serving. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.09138 (2025).
[9] Herve Jegou, Matthijs Douze, and Cordelia Schmid. 2010. Product Quantization
for Nearest Neighbor Search. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
Intelligence (2010).

[10] Wenqi Jiang, Shigang Li, Yu Zhu, Johannes de Fine Licht, Zhenhao He, Runbin Shi,
Cedric Renggli, Shuai Zhang, Theodoros Rekatsinas, Torsten Hoefler, and Gustavo
Alonso. 2023. Co-design Hardware and Algorithm for Vector Search. In SC.
[11] Wenqi Jiang, Suvinay Subramanian, Cat Graves, Gustavo Alonso, Amir Yazdan-
bakhsh, and Vidushi Dadu. 2025. RAGO: Systematic Performance Optimization
for Retrieval-Augmented Generation Serving. In Proceedings of the 52th Annual
International Symposium on Computer Architecture.

[12] Wenqi Jiang, Marco Zeller, Roger Waleffe, Torsten Hoefler, and Gustavo Alonso.
2025. Chameleon: A Heterogeneous and Disaggregated Accelerator System for
Retrieval-Augmented Language Models. VLDB (2025).

[13] Wenqi Jiang, Shuai Zhang, Boran Han, Jie Wang, Yuyang Bernie Wang, and Tim
Kraska. 2025. PipeRAG: Fast retrieval-augmented generation via adaptive pipeline
parallelism. Proceedings of the 31th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (2025).

[14] Chao Jin, Zili Zhang, Xuanlin Jiang, Fangyue Liu, Xin Liu, Xuanzhe Liu, and Xin
Jin. 2024. RAGCache: Efficient Knowledge Caching for Retrieval-Augmented
Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.12457 (2024).

[15] Angeliki Lazaridou, Adhi Kuncoro, Elena Gribovskaya, Devang Agrawal, Adam
Liska, Tayfun Terzi, Mai Gimenez, Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Tomas Kocisky,
Sebastian Ruder, et al. 2021. Mind the Gap: Assessing Temporal Generalization
in Neural Language Models. In NeurIPS.

[16] Mike Lewis, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Gargi Ghosh, Armen Aghajanyan, Sida Wang,

and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020. Pre-training via Paraphrasing. In NeurIPS.

[17] Xinbei Ma, Yeyun Gong, Pengcheng He, Hai Zhao, and Nan Duan. 2023. Query
Rewriting for Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.14283 (2023).

[18] Rulin Shao, Jacqueline He, Akari Asai, Weijia Shi, Tim Dettmers, Sewon Min,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Pang Wei Koh. 2024. Scaling Retrieval-Based Language
Models with a Trillion-Token Datastore. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.12854 (2024).
[19] Boxin Wang, Wei Ping, Lawrence McAfee, Peng Xu, Bo Li, Mohammad
InstructRetro: Instruction Tuning post

Shoeybi, and Bryan Catanzaro. 2023.
Retrieval-Augmented Pretraining. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.07713 (2023).
[20] Jiayi Yao, Hanchen Li, Yuhan Liu, Siddhant Ray, Yihua Cheng, Qizheng Zhang, Kun-
tai Du, Shan Lu, and Junchen Jiang. 2024. CacheBlend: Fast Large Language Model
Serving with Cached Knowledge Fusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.16444 (2024).
[21] Zhihao Zhang, Alan Zhu, Lijie Yang, Yihua Xu, Lanting Li, Phitchaya Mangpo
Phothilimthana, and Zhihao Jia. 2024. Accelerating Retrieval-Augmented
Language Model Serving with Speculation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.14021 (2024).