5
2
0
2

v
o
N
7

]

R

I
.
s
c
[

1
v
5
8
3
5
0
.
1
1
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

TeaRAG: A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented
Generation Framework

CHAO ZHANG, University of Science and Technology of China, China and City University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong
YUHAO WANG, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
DERONG XU, University of Science and Technology of China, China and City University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong
HAOXIN ZHANG, Xiaohongshu Inc., China
YUANJIE LYU, YUHAO CHEN, SHUOCHEN LIU, and TONG XU*, University of Science
and Technology of China, China
XIANGYU ZHAO*, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
YAN GAO and YAO HU, Xiaohongshu Inc., China
ENHONG CHEN, University of Science and Technology of China, China

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) utilizes external knowledge to augment Large Language Models’
(LLMs) reliability. For flexibility, agentic RAG employs autonomous, multi-round retrieval and reasoning to
resolve queries. Although recent agentic RAG has improved via reinforcement learning, they often incur sub-
stantial token overhead from search and reasoning. This trade-off prioritizes accuracy over efficiency. To address
this issue, this work proposes TeaRAG, a Token-efficient agentic RAG framework capable of compressing both
retrieval content and reasoning steps. 1) First, the retrieved content is compressed by augmenting chunk-based
semantic retrieval with a graph retrieval using concise triplets. A knowledge association graph is then built from
semantic similarity and co-occurrence. Finally, Personalized PageRank is leveraged to highlight key knowledge
within this graph, reducing the number of tokens per retrieval. 2) Besides, to reduce reasoning steps, Iterative
Process-aware Direct Preference Optimization (IP-DPO) is proposed. Specifically, our reward function evaluates
the knowledge sufficiency by a knowledge matching mechanism, while penalizing excessive reasoning steps.
This design can produce high-quality preference-pair datasets, supporting iterative DPO to improve reasoning
conciseness. Across six datasets, TeaRAG improves the average Exact Match by 4% and 2% while reducing
output tokens by 61% and 59% on Llama3-8B-Instruct and Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct, respectively. Code is available
at https://github.com/Applied-Machine-Learning-Lab/TeaRAG.

*Corresponding authors.

Authors’ Contact Information: Chao Zhang, zclfe00@mail.ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China
and City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Yuhao Wang, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, yhwang25-
c@my.cityu.edu.hk; Derong Xu, derongxu@mail.ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China and City
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Haoxin Zhang, Xiaohongshu Inc., China, zhanghaoxin1994@gmail.com; Yuanjie Lyu,
s1583050085@gmail.com; Yuhao Chen, isyuhaochen@mail.ustc.edu.cn; Shuochen Liu, shuochenliu@mail.ustc.edu.cn; Tong
Xu, tongxu@ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China; Xiangyu Zhao, xianzhao@cityu.edu.hk,
City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Yan Gao, yadun@xiaohongshu.com; Yao Hu, yaoohu@gmail.com, Xiaohongshu
Inc., China; Enhong Chen, cheneh@ustc.edu.cn, University of Science and Technology of China, China.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior
specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference acronym ’XX, Woodstock, NY
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Zhang et al.

ACM Reference Format:
Chao Zhang, Yuhao Wang, Derong Xu, Haoxin Zhang, Yuanjie Lyu, Yuhao Chen, Shuochen Liu, Tong Xu,
Xiangyu Zhao, Yan Gao, Yao Hu, and Enhong Chen. 2018. TeaRAG: A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-
Augmented Generation Framework. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from
your rights confirmation email (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 32 pages. https:
//doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

1 Introduction

Large Language Models (LLMs) have made substantial progress through learning from massive
pre-training corpora. Nevertheless, statistical inaccuracies in linguistic distribution modeling during
pre-training can lead to hallucination generation [29]. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is
an effective technique that mitigates hallucinations in LLMs by incorporating external retrieval
information [2, 12]. To improve the accuracy of RAG, conventional RAG systems typically adopt
a predefined multi-step workflow consisting of planning [61], query rewriting [42], retrieval [40],
reranking [65], refinement [23], and generation. However, the fixed workflows constrain their capacity
to address tasks that demand multi-step reasoning, adaptive decision-making, and dynamic integration
of retrieved information [36, 40]. To further enhance the flexibility and adaptiveness of the RAG
framework, agentic RAG has been proposed. Agentic RAG adopts agentic workflows that allow LLMs
to autonomously control the workflow process to solve complex problems [40, 54]. By leveraging
the capabilities of LLMs in task decomposition and dynamic planning, agentic RAG can break down
problems into a sequence of tractable steps. At each step, the framework proactively invokes retrieval
modules to obtain relevant contextual information, thereby establishing an integration between
reasoning and retrieval [27, 59].

Recently, the performance of agentic RAG has been significantly enhanced through reinforcement
learning (RL) optimization of agentic workflows for LLMs [53, 54, 56]. For example, Search-R1 [27]
employs PPO [51] and GRPO [52] to optimize agentic RAG based on an output-based reward.
However, the current paradigm still faces several challenges. First, existing agentic RAG methods are
token-inefficient. This is because current systems predominantly prioritize maximizing the accuracy
of the final outputs, while overlooking the substantial token overhead during the reasoning and
retrieval processes [27, 53]. This optimization bias often leads models to overthink [7, 8] and perform
redundant retrieval [66], resulting in wasted computational resources and reduced system efficiency.
Second, current agentic RAG systems largely rely on chunk-based semantic retrieval, which yields
low information density and tends to introduce irrelevant noise [40, 79]. While recent studies [39, 77]
have investigated the use of higher-density knowledge graphs for retrieval, it remains unvalidated on
large-scale graphs and fails to leverage co-occurrence relationships among chunks and knowledge
triplets. This prevents the system from leveraging both retrieval methods’ strengths [16] and hinders
retrieval systems in preserving critical information and removing irrelevant noise. Finally, most
agentic RAG systems train LLMs with outcome-based rewards via RL [27, 54]. This reward design
is typically sparse and noisy, which can hinder stable and efficient training [66]. Besides, agentic
RAG methods [53, 66] are usually trained using RL algorithms such as PPO [51] and GRPO [52].
These approaches require multi-machine coordination and continuous external retrieval access during
training [56], which makes the training process prohibitively slow. To address this limitation, recent
approaches employ GPT-4o for process-based reward annotation [83], and then optimize using
DPO [49]. However, the reward annotation process is costly and depends on proprietary models.

To gain deeper insights into the token usage of existing agentic RAG systems, we analyze two
representative methods: Search-R1 [27] and R1-Searcher [54]. As illustrated in Fig. 1 (a), the output
of an agentic RAG system primarily consists of two types of tokens generated through multiple
iterations. The first is the LLM’s thinking process, where these tokens are used for planning, problem

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

3

Fig. 1. 𝑇𝑖 denotes the thinking tokens at the i-th step, 𝑅𝑖 denotes the retrieved context at the i-th step,
and 𝑂 represents the final output. (a) illustrates Search-R1, a representative agentic RAG method
optimized based on the final outcome. (b) shows our proposed method TeaRAG, which achieves a
token-efficient agentic RAG by optimizing the retrieved content length with high-density triplets and
controlling the number of LLM reasoning steps via a process-aware reward.

Fig. 2. (a) shows the token usage. (b) shows the distribution of reasoning steps. (c) shows the F1
performance on single-hop, multi-hop, and overall QA benchmarks.

decomposition, and reasoning over retrieved content. The second is the retrieved content that the
LLM obtains by invoking a retriever to access external sources. Through statistical analysis of
different token types and iteration rounds, as observed in Fig. 2 (a) and Fig. 2 (b), we identify two
critical inefficiencies that impact token utilization. First, the retrieved content constitutes the majority
of the overall output. This is because chunk-based retrieval methods typically return entire document
segments as input to LLMs. However, a substantial portion of these contents may consist of irrelevant
or redundant background information that does not enhance the quality of the final answer [40].
Therefore, increasing the information density of the retrieved content is essential for improving the
token efficiency in agentic RAG. Second, agentic RAG methods generally adopt multi-step reasoning,
even when addressing single-hop questions. As shown in Fig. 2 (b), single-hop questions account for
44% of the test set, yet in most cases the number of reasoning steps exceeds one. This is due to the
lack of process supervision in outcome-based rewards, which leads to overthinking [7] and redundant
retrieval [62]. Therefore, reducing unnecessary and repetitive steps in intermediate processes is key
to improving the efficiency of token utilization.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

InstructionT!R!…T"R"O(a) Search-R1(b) TeaRAGOutcomeRewardQuerySemantic RetrievalSearchSearchChunksChunksToken IntensiveLarge 𝒏 InstructionT!R!…T#R#OOverall RewardQueryHybrid RetrievalSearchSearchContentContentToken EfficientSmall 𝒎 T!R!…T"R"OKnowledge Association GraphquerychunktripletentityHigh DensityContentInputOutputInputOutputOutputRewardFormatRewardProcessRewardContentper RetrievalThinkingRetrievedContentTotal05001000150020002500Average Token Count(a) Token Usage12345Reasoning Steps01020304050607080Proportion (%)(b) Reasoning Steps DistributionSingle-hopMulti-hopOverall40.042.545.047.550.052.555.057.560.0F1 Score(c) PerformanceR1-Searcher-Qwen-7B+RSearch-R1-base-7B+RTeaRAG-8B4

Zhang et al.

To address the above challenges, we introduce TeaRAG, a token-efficient agentic RAG framework
that enhances token efficiency by simultaneously optimizing the conciseness of reasoning steps and
the density of retrieved content, as shown in Fig. 1 (b). Specifically, the overall workflow of this
agentic RAG system is autonomously controlled by an LLM. First, the LLM identifies key entities in
the question and breaks it down into sub-questions around these key entities. Subsequently, based
on the sub-questions, the LLM calls a retriever to perform semantic retrieval at the chunk level. To
improve the density of the retrieved content, the LLM also uses graph retrieval to retrieve relevant
and concise knowledge triplets. Afterwards, based on the recalled chunks and triplet information,
we construct a Knowledge Association Graph (KAG) using semantic similarity and co-occurrence.
Using Personalized PageRank (PPR) on this graph, we filter out redundant and irrelevant chunk
information while supplementing it with the higher-density triplet information. Finally, the LLM
summarizes the retrieved content. The LLM repeats this process cyclically until the final answer is
obtained.

To effectively implement this pipeline and improve the conciseness of LLM reasoning, we propose
a two-stage training paradigm. In the first stage, we construct supervised fine-tuning (SFT) data to
train models to master the reasoning format and thinking process. Specifically, we leverage the query
decomposition processes from the MuSiQue [58] dataset and employ Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct [74] to
transform structured question-answer pairs into natural language equivalents. We then assemble these
into complete reasoning processes following chain combinations. Using this SFT dataset, we perform
SFT on the models. In the second stage, we propose Iterative Process-aware Direct Preference
Optimization (IP-DPO), which incorporates a novel process reward and iteratively optimizes LLMs.
Specifically, we sample multiple reasoning paths for each query, assign rewards to them, and construct
preference-pair datasets based on these rewards. For a given sampled reasoning path, the reward
system integrates conventional output-based and format-based rewards with the proposed process
reward to produce a comprehensive evaluation score. The process reward employs a knowledge
matching mechanism to assess evidence acquisition across three dimensions: subquery generation,
context retrieval, and summarization. This mechanism measures the alignment of intermediate
reasoning outputs in each dimension with ground truth knowledge. Then, the process reward is
computed by aggregating evidence acquisition scores from each dimension and normalizing by the
total reasoning steps, resulting in the information gain per step. Besides, the process reward also
ensures consistency between extracted entities and subqueries to facilitate the PPR filtering. Based
on this reward framework, we can create high-quality preference-pair datasets, enabling iterative
DPO to improve model generalization and yield more compact reasoning paths. Comprehensive
evaluations on six benchmark datasets demonstrate that TeaRAG attains superior accuracy while
reducing both reasoning steps and output length as shown in Fig. 2. On Llama3-8B-Instruct, it
improves the average Exact Match (EM) score by 4% alongside a 61% reduction in output tokens,
whereas on Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct it yields a 2% EM increase with a 59% token reduction.

Our contributions can be summarized as follows:

• We conduct an in-depth analysis of token inefficiencies in agentic RAG and propose a token-
efficient pipeline, TeaRAG, that simultaneously improves the information density of retrieved
contents and reduces reasoning steps.

• We propose a retrieval method that constructs KAGs based on semantic similarity and co-
occurrence, combining the strengths of semantic and graph retrieval. By employing PPR filtering
to remove irrelevant contents, our approach retrieves more concise contents without sacrificing
performance.

• We propose a two-stage training paradigm that effectively activates agentic RAG reasoning
capabilities while maintaining the conciseness of the reasoning process through process-aware
training.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

5

• We conduct comprehensive experiments and detailed analyses across six benchmark datasets,

validating the effectiveness and token efficiency of our pipeline and training methods.

2 Related Work

2.1 Retrieval-Augmented Generation

LLMs are trained on massive datasets, possessing powerful capabilities in understanding [12],
generation [74], and reasoning [36, 52]. However, when faced with knowledge-intensive tasks [35],
LLMs that rely solely on their parametric memory are prone to hallucination [12, 27, 34]. RAG
addresses this by using a retriever to search a corpus for information snippets relevant to a query.
These information are then provided to the LLM as evidence to generate more reliable answers. The
field of RAG has attracted significant attention in recent years, spurring substantial research. We will
focus on introducing agentic RAG and graph-enhanced RAG, which are most relevant to our work.

2.1.1 Agentic RAG. A comprehensive RAG system typically involves multiple sub-steps, includ-
ing query planning [61], query rewriting [37, 42], retrieval [40], reranking [65], refinement [23],
and generation. Traditional RAG systems usually follow pre-defined sub-steps designed by humans.
However, this approach fails to dynamically adapt to task requirements and performs poorly when
facing complex multi-hop tasks [15]. To autonomously control the RAG process, agentic RAG
applies the agent approach [63, 76]. Through the planning and comprehension capabilities of LLMs,
it iteratively breaks down complex problems into executable operations and queries until an answer
is found.

Initial works use prompt-based approaches for preset process control [36, 59, 81], determining
whether RAG should continue querying or provide an answer to the question. However, due to
the lack of training specifically for RAG scenarios, these methods rely on LLMs’ instruction-
following and reasoning capabilities. To enhance the adaptability of LLMs to RAG tasks, some
studies [2, 40] employ SFT to train agentic RAG systems. However, such approaches often fall short
in further stimulating the generalization capability of the models. Recently, as RL methods have
greatly enhanced the reasoning and generalization capabilities of LLMs [52], numerous studies have
employed outcome-based RL to stimulate LLMs’ thinking and tool-use abilities [27, 54]. These
works typically use string matching methods to simply determine whether the LLM’s output is
consistent with the ground truth [25, 27, 54] or whether the LLM’s reasoning process contains the
ground truth [53]. Nevertheless, such approaches often suffer from suboptimal reasoning processes
due to the lack of supervision over intermediate steps [66]. Some recent work has explored process-
reward methods to more precisely optimize agentic RAG systems [66, 83]. These approaches include
employing predefined reasoning format rewards to supervise the model in learning correct reasoning
formats [26, 55] and designing reward mechanisms based on the number of retrieval calls [55, 77].
Further improvements involve leveraging more comprehensive evidence paragraphs to supervise the
reasoning process [66], or utilizing GPT-4o to annotate intermediate reasoning steps [83].

Although current agentic RAG has made significant progress, existing methods focus on training
LLMs on how to invoke retrievers for better performance, often neglecting token efficiency. Besides,
these approaches either rely on high-resource RL methods such as PPO [51] and GRPO [52], which
require multi-machine collaboration and continuous retrieval resource requests during training [66],
or utilize GPT-4o for process scoring [83]. Both approaches make it difficult to achieve efficient, low-
resource implementation of agentic RAG. Therefore, our work aims to improve the token efficiency
of agentic RAG by reducing token usage while maintaining performance. Additionally, we propose
an iterative process-aware DPO to implement agentic RAG.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

6

Zhang et al.

2.1.2 Graph-Enhanced RAG. Most traditional RAG relies on chunk-based retrieval approaches [9],
which split complete document information into multiple chunks and use these chunks as the
units for retrieval and input to LLMs. However, since question-related clues are embedded in
complex chunk contexts, existing chunk-based approaches struggle to accurately capture subtle
clues [14, 40] and multi-hop knowledge associations [15, 16]. Previous work organizes corpus
knowledge into knowledge graph structures to capture fine-grained clues and knowledge associations
more systematically [9, 14, 71, 72]. Leveraging the topological structure of knowledge graphs,
many works replace chunk-based retrieval methods with graph algorithms to achieve more accurate
results [6, 10, 15, 16, 70]. These graph-enhanced RAG approaches can be categorized into three
strategies. First, some methods employ classical graph algorithms such as Prize-Collecting Steiner
Tree [17] and PPR [1, 15, 16] to retrieve all query-related information in one step, then feed the
entire retrieved context to the LLM for direct answer generation [70, 84]. Second, some approaches
employ LLM prompts to select the optimal triplet path from all candidate reasoning paths based on
topological relationships in the graph structure [6, 10, 57]. Last, recent concurrent work has explored
extending RL-based training approaches from agentic RAG to graph-enhanced RAG, aiming to fully
leverage the reasoning capabilities of LLMs [39, 77]. Nevertheless, a key challenge in knowledge
graph construction is the potential for information loss [69], as the process simplifies complete text
into structured triplets. To address this issue, some works dynamically construct knowledge graphs
after receiving specific queries [24, 73], which enables the targeted capture of core information rele-
vant to the query from the text. Nevertheless, these approaches incur additional online inference time
and high computational costs. Alternatively, some methods adopt a hybrid approach that combines
chunk-based semantic retrieval with graph-based retrieval mechanisms to leverage the advantages of
both strategies [16, 38, 41, 50, 77].

Current graph-enhanced RAG still has its limitations. First, these methods typically utilize existing
small-scale knowledge graphs [17, 70] or construct them from relatively small (sub-million scale)
corpora [15, 16, 39], lacking validation on sufficiently large-scale graph data. Furthermore, graph-
enhanced RAG systems typically select a fixed number of top-ranked triplets [6, 10, 70] or their
associated text chunks [15, 16], or directly concatenate the retrieved triplets and chunks as input [50,
77]. However, these approaches fail to fully exploit the co-occurrence of different representations
of the same knowledge element. In our work, we conduct experimental validation by constructing
a large-scale knowledge graph based on a common wiki corpus [30]. We use PPR on a KAG of
retrieved chunks and knowledge triplets to select the most relevant information. This process boosts
information density while preserving key context, achieving a token-efficient agentic RAG.

2.2 Reinforcement Learning for LLMs

LLMs gain knowledge through pre-training on vast data [3, 74] and are then instruction-tuned
via SFT to follow instructions [13, 45]. However, this imitation-based learning limits their ability
to generalize. To address these limitations, Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback [45]
(RLHF) first trains a reward model to capture human preferences over model outputs. This reward
model then guides the LLM optimization using PPO [51], enabling the generation of higher-quality,
more aligned responses. Beyond alignment with human values, RL techniques have proven effective
in enhancing LLM reasoning capabilities [22, 52]. For example, methods like GRPO [52] improve
performance on mathematical reasoning tasks by optimizing the model’s generation process using
either outcome-based rewards [52, 78] or fine-grained process reward models that provide step-by-
step supervision [82]. However, the above methods are typically online RL approaches, requiring
LLMs to perform sampling simultaneously during training [27, 52], which often leads to low training
efficiency when LLM inference is lengthy or requires calling complex tools [11, 49]. By separating the
sampling and training phases, easier and more efficient RL methods achieve higher training efficiency,

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

7

sometimes at the expense of performance [21]. These include rejection sampling [31, 68, 80], which
enhance model performance by filtering high-quality samples from generated data for subsequent SFT.
DPO [31, 49] circumvents explicit reward model training by treating the LLM itself as an implicit
reward model, enabling RL through preference pair construction. This approach has been successfully
applied to reasoning tasks through iterative sampling and training cycles [47, 60]. Building on this,
our work utilizes RL algorithms to optimize the multi-turn retrieval and reasoning capabilities of
agentic RAG systems. We design novel process-based rewards that employ knowledge matching
to evaluate key components throughout the LLM’s reasoning paths. These rewards effectively
distinguish between positive and negative samples, and we employ multi-round iterative DPO to
train LLMs for adaptation to agentic RAG tasks efficiently.

3 Preliminaries

Given a task instruction 𝐼 , a question 𝑞, a retriever R, a collection of document chunks D =
{𝑑1, . . . , 𝑑𝑛 }, and a knowledge graph G = ⟨V, E⟩ where V = {𝑣1, . . . , 𝑣𝑚 } is the entity set and
E = (cid:8) 𝑒𝑖 | 𝑒𝑖 = (𝑣ℎ
𝑖 ∈ V(cid:9) is the triplet set, RAG utilizes the retriever R to retrieve
relevant information based on question 𝑞 and inputs it into an LLM for reasoning and answering.

𝑖 , 𝑟𝑒𝑙, 𝑣𝑡

𝑖 ), 𝑣ℎ

𝑖 , 𝑣𝑡

Definition 3.1. Single-Round RAG. This paradigm involves a single retrieval step for a given
query 𝑞. A retrieval algorithm A R, using a retriever R, gathers information from a document corpus
D and a knowledge graph G. The resulting context, C𝑞 = A R (𝑞, D, G), is the union of retrieved
document chunks (D𝑞 ⊆ D) and knowledge graph triplets (E𝑞 ⊆ G). This aggregated context is then
combined with the instruction 𝐼 and query 𝑞 to form the final prompt for the LLM, which generates
the answer 𝑎: 𝑎 = LLM(𝐼, 𝑞, C𝑞).

Definition 3.2. Agentic RAG. This paradigm empowers the LLM to act as an autonomous agent
that constructs a dynamic workflow to answer complex questions. The agent iteratively builds
a reasoning path, P𝑘 , by interleaving thought and retrieved context. Each step 𝑖 of the process
unfolds in two parts. First, in the thinking phase, the LLM generates an internal reasoning step 𝑇𝑖 =
LLM(𝐼, 𝑞, P𝑖 −1) based on the instruction 𝐼 , question 𝑞, and its previous steps. Second, in the retrieval
phase, a subquery 𝑞𝑖 is extracted from the thought 𝑇𝑖 and used to retrieve relevant context C𝑞𝑖 =
A R (𝑞𝑖, D, G). This cycle continues until a complete reasoning path, P𝑘 = [𝑇1, C𝑞1
, . . . ,𝑇𝑘, C𝑞𝑘 ],
is constructed. Finally, the LLM generates the final answer based on this complete path: 𝑎 =
LLM(𝐼, 𝑞, P𝑘 ).

This work aims to develop a token-efficient agentic RAG system that preserves correctness while
compressing P𝑘 , thereby enhancing token efficiency. As analyzed in Section 1, TeaRAG achieves
this goal via two key perspectives. (1) constructing higher-density contexts C𝑞𝑖 by shortening the
context per retrieval while retaining essential content. (2) reducing the number of reasoning steps 𝑘
thereby enhances the efficiency of reasoning.

4 Methodology

In this section, we present the overall implementation of TeaRAG. First, we describe the knowledge
graph construction in Section 4.1. Second, based on the existing corpus, we outline the TeaRAG
pipeline in Section 4.2. Finally, we introduce the training strategies employed to realize this pipeline
in Section 4.3, including SFT and IP-DPO.

4.1 Knowledge Graph Construction

Most graph-enhanced RAG [39, 77] methods construct knowledge graphs from relatively small
corpora (sub-million scale). Such settings cannot reliably evaluate model performance on large-scale

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

8

Zhang et al.

Fig. 3. The overall pipeline of TeaRAG. Based on an offline-built knowledge graph and chunk corpus
index, TeaRAG progressively constructs a reasoning path until the final answer is determined.

data, as larger graphs inevitably introduce more noise and complexity. To investigate the performance
of TeaRAG under a large-scale knowledge graph, we construct a knowledge graph based on the
widely used Wikipedia corpus [30]. Following [84], we employ the Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct model [74]
to extract knowledge triplets from each document chunk. This ensures that the content of the graph
is consistent with the underlying corpus. The extracted entities are added to the entity set V, and
the extracted triplets are incorporated into the edge set E. All entities and triplets obtained from the
corpus together constitute the knowledge graph G. Statistics for this constructed graph are provided
in Table 5.

4.2 Pipeline of TeaRAG

Leveraging the Wikipedia corpus and its knowledge graph, the system can perform hybrid retrieval
to autonomously address problems. In agentic RAG, conventional retrieval methods are confined
to semantic retrieval [27, 54], graph retrieval [39, 77], or their naive concatenation [50, 67, 77],
overlooking both their complementary strengths and the strong relevance signal from their co-
occurrence. Semantic retrieval offers rich background and conceptual context but suffers from low
information density, noise [2, 40, 73], and inefficient token use. Conversely, graph retrieval yields
high-density triplets containing precise facts but lacking contextual grounding. Besides, when a
chunk from semantic retrieval and a triplet from graph retrieval correspond to the same source
data, their co-occurrence constitutes a robust relevance signal, functioning as a high-confidence
filter. Therefore, TeaRAG exploits this intrinsic relationship between chunks and triplets to reconcile
the accuracy–efficiency trade-off. By prioritizing co-occurring chunk–triplet pairs over less certain
chunks, TeaRAG can enhance contextual accuracy while improving token efficiency for the LLM.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

User QueryWho is the mother of the director of film Polish-Russian War?Offline Index ConstructionCorpusChunkingKey Entity RecognitionSubquery GenerationTripletChunkExtractingKnowledge GraphChunkCorpusHybrid RetrievalReasoning Path ConstructionMergeMergeKnowledge Association Graph ConstructionPersonalized PageRankSummary GenerationFinal AnswerAutonomous Agentic PipelineContinue QueryPolish-Russian WarWho is the director of the film Polish-Russian War?The fact Polish-Russian War (film) directed by Xawery Żuławski …Judge？TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

9

Fig. 4. (a) shows the structure of a reasoning step. <Reference> and </Reference> are special tokens
for wrapping retrieved information. (b) shows the meaning of symbol in (c). (c) shows an example of
partial KAG. The answer is highlighted by pink text. The red number on nodes is the ranking of the
content selected in PPR.

Consequently, we implement the pipeline of TeaRAG as shown in Fig. 3. We redesign the structure
of the agent’s reasoning path as P𝑘 = [𝑆1, . . . , 𝑆𝑘 ], where 𝑆𝑖 denotes the 𝑖-th reasoning step. The
structure of a reasoning step is illustrated in Fig. 4 (a). Specifically, TeaRAG first identifies the key
entities central to the current reasoning step. Based on these entities, it formulates the subquery
required for the step. Subsequently, TeaRAG performs context retrieval using a hybrid approach,
extracting relevant information from both the chunk corpus and the knowledge graph, and constructs
a KAG to enable PPR filtering for precise and concise context. TeaRAG then summarizes the core
content from this context with respect to the subquery. Finally, leveraging the previous reasoning
steps, TeaRAG decides whether to proceed with further reasoning or directly generate the final
answer. Next, we present the detailed design of a reasoning step.

4.2.1 Important Entity Recognition. Before LLMs perform question decomposition and gen-
eration, they need to first identify what the current important anchor entity is. By focusing on the
key entities in the question, they can generate more targeted questions [43] and facilitate subsequent
PPR filtering of irrelevant information. The key entities recognized by LLMs at step 𝑖 are denoted as
𝑣𝑖
1

, . . . , 𝑣𝑖
𝑗 .

4.2.2 Subquery Generation. Based on current key entities and previous reasoning information,
the LLM decomposes the original question, generating the current subquery 𝑞𝑖 to be solved. The
retrieval algorithms A R then acquire relevant context centered around this subquery 𝑞𝑖 .

4.2.3 Context Retrieval. The context retrieval process of TeaRAG consists of semantic retrieval
and graph retrieval.

The first component is semantic retrieval. The retriever, R, retrieves relevant chunks D𝑞𝑖 from the
document corpus D based on their similarity to the subquery 𝑞𝑖 . This is denoted as: D𝑞𝑖 = R (𝑞𝑖, D).

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

Subquery NodeChunk NodeTriplet NodeEntity NodeCitibank1812Citigroup12… Citibank was founded in 1812 as the "City Bank of New York"…19025…The City Bank of New York was founded on June 16, 1812…3…Citigroup, the parent of Citibank, acquired Golden State Bancorp…4Citibank founded in 1812Citibank began operations in 1902Citibank (China) was founded on 1 April 2007…Citibank (China)1 April 2007Citibank (China) founded on 1 April 2007Citigroup was formed on October 8, 1998…Co-occurrence EdgeRelevance EdgeIn what year was Citibank founded?(a) Structure of a reasoning step(b) Symbol meaning(c) An example showing partial KAG10

Zhang et al.

The second component is graph retrieval, which retrieves a set of knowledge triplets E𝑞𝑖 from
the knowledge graph G. However, retrieving triplets based solely on identified key entities without
considering detailed relationships risks collecting irrelevant triplets, whereas directly searching for
relevant triplets from the entire set can be hampered by excessive noise from similar entries. To
address these issues, we propose a two-stage graph retrieval method to perform graph retrieval in
a more fine-grained manner. The first stage retrieves relevant entities from the entity set V using
the retriever R. For the set of key entities {𝑣𝑖
𝑗 } from the current reasoning step 𝑖, we generate
1
entity queries by pairing each entity 𝑣𝑖
𝑡 . Query: 𝑞𝑖 .”
The union of all entities returned by the retriever for these entity queries forms the set V𝑞𝑖 . We then
collect all one-hop triplets connected to the entities in V𝑞𝑖 from the knowledge graph, forming the set
E𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑡 𝑦. In the second stage, we retrieve the set of triplets most relevant to 𝑞𝑖 from this constrained
triplet set, defined as E𝑞𝑖 = R (𝑞𝑖, E𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑡 𝑦).

𝑡 with the subquery 𝑞𝑖 in the format: “Key entity: 𝑣𝑖

, . . . , 𝑣𝑖

In the above two components, we employ a top-K strategy to directly select the top-K contexts
with the highest retrieval scores. We denote the size of these sets as |D𝑞𝑖 | = 𝑘𝑑 and |E𝑞𝑖 | = 𝑘𝑡 . Next,
our aim is to select the final 𝑘𝑓 contexts for the LLM from the set D𝑞𝑖 ∪ E𝑞𝑖 by constructing a KAG
based on the co-occurrence mechanism.

4.2.4 Knowledge Association Graph Construction. Based on the retrieved content, we construct
a KAG, a heterogeneous graph designed to capture the co-occurrence relationships between different
knowledge elements. This graph comprises four distinct node types and two types of association
edges that connect them, as shown in Fig. 4 (b). The node types are defined as follows:

• Subquery node 𝑛𝑞𝑖 : A single node representing the current subquery 𝑞𝑖 . This node serves as

the central anchor of the graph, and all other information is retrieved based on this.

• Chunk node 𝑛𝑑 : Each node of this type represents a textual chunk 𝑑 from the retrieved

document set D𝑞𝑖 .

• Triplet node 𝑛𝑒 : Each node of this type represents a knowledge triplet 𝑒 from the triplet set

E𝑞𝑖 .

• Entity node 𝑛𝑣: Each node of this type represents an entity 𝑣, which can be one of the entities
𝑗 identified at reasoning step 𝑖, a source document title for a chunk, or a head or tail

, . . . , 𝑣𝑖

𝑣𝑖
1
entity from a knowledge triplet.

The edges of the KAG capture either structural co-occurrence or semantic similarity, and are
categorized as co-occurrence edges and relevance edges, respectively. Besides, all edges are
undirected. Co-occurrence edges signify structural or contextual links between nodes. They are
assigned a weight of 1 and are defined by the following rules:

• Entity-Entity edge: An edge (𝑛𝑣ℎ, 𝑛𝑣𝑡 ) connects the head and tail entities of a triplet 𝑒 =

(𝑣ℎ, 𝑟𝑒𝑙, 𝑣𝑡 ).

• Triplet-Entity edge: Edges (𝑛𝑒, 𝑛𝑣ℎ ) and (𝑛𝑒, 𝑛𝑣𝑡 ) connect a triplet node to its constituent

entities.

• Chunk-Triplet edge: If a triplet 𝑒 ∈ E𝑞𝑖 and its source chunk 𝑑 is also in D𝑞𝑖 , an edge (𝑛𝑒, 𝑛𝑑 )

is created, signifying a co-occurrence between the triplet and the chunk.

• Chunk-Entity edge: When a triplet 𝑒 = (𝑣ℎ, 𝑟𝑒𝑙, 𝑣𝑡 ) co-occurs with a chunk 𝑑, edges are
also added between the entity nodes of the triplet and the chunk node (𝑛𝑑, 𝑛𝑣ℎ ) and (𝑛𝑑, 𝑛𝑣𝑡 ).
Besides, an edge (𝑛𝑑, 𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒 ) connects a chunk node 𝑛𝑑 to the entity node of its document title
𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑙𝑒 .

Relevance edges quantify the relevance of chunk and triplet nodes to the subquery node. The edge
weights are defined as:

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

11

• Chunk-Subquery edge: The weight of the edge (𝑛𝑑, 𝑛𝑞𝑖 ) for a chunk 𝑑 ∈ D𝑞𝑖 is based on

their similarity:

(1)
where simR is the relevance score computed by the retriever R, which is then normalized using
the sigmoid.

𝑤 (𝑛𝑑, 𝑛𝑞𝑖 ) = sigmoid(simR (𝑑, 𝑞𝑖 )),

• Triplet-Subquery edge: To account for the contextual sparsity of triplets, which can lead
to unreliable similarity scores, we apply a thresholding mechanism. The weight of the edge
(𝑛𝑒, 𝑛𝑞𝑖 ) for a triplet 𝑒 ∈ E𝑞𝑖 is:

𝑤 (𝑛𝑒, 𝑛𝑞𝑖 ) = max(sigmoid(simR (𝑒, 𝑞𝑖 )) − 𝜏, 0),

(2)

where 𝜏 is a threshold hyperparameter.

4.2.5 Personalized PageRank Filtering. After constructing the KAG, we employ PPR to identify
the most important content nodes. This process allows us to dynamically select key information
and compress tokens by replacing text chunks with high-density triplets, while ensuring relevance.
We denote the importance distribution across all nodes as 𝜋. The weighted adjacency matrix from
the graph construction is normalized to produce the transition matrix 𝑊 . Besides, we denote the
personalization vector as 𝑝, which acts as a bias to steer the final importance distribution. To ensure
the relevance of the context to the subquery, the values for the subquery node 𝑛𝑞𝑖 in the personalized
vector 𝑝 are set to 1. Meanwhile, the key entities identified by the LLM have their corresponding
values in 𝑝 set to 0.5, serving as anchors for the question. Subsequently, we iterate for 𝑁 rounds to
obtain the updated importance distribution 𝜋:

𝜋 = 𝛼𝑊 𝜋 + (1 − 𝛼)𝑝,
(3)
where 𝛼 is a hyperparameter that balances the importance derived from the graph structure with the
bias from the personalization vector. Finally, based on the ranking of the scores in 𝜋, we select the
𝑘𝑓 highest-scoring nodes from the chunk and triplet nodes to form the final context C𝑞𝑖 . This context
is then wrapped in <Reference> and </Reference> tags to signal to the LLM that it is an external
resource.

We show a KAG example in Fig. 4 (c). Core relevant knowledge can form a dense graph structure
connected by co-occurrence edges. This indicates that using co-occurrence is usually a more precise
way to filter noise and prevent the model’s inference from being distracted by similar but irrelevant
content.

4.2.6 Summary Generation. The LLM summarizes the collected external context to produce a
summary, 𝑠𝑖 , which enables subsequent steps to easily identify the key information for this step.

4.2.7 Final Answer Generation. The LLM autonomously determines whether the information
collected in the reasoning path is sufficient. If not, it continues to generate the next reasoning step
𝑆𝑖+1 = LLM(𝐼, 𝑞, P𝑖 ). Conversely, when the information is sufficient, the LLM generates the final
answer 𝑎 = LLM(𝐼, 𝑞, P𝑖 ). And the final answer 𝑎 starts with the format “Final answer: ”, which
facilitates the format check.

4.3 Model Training

To enable LLMs to autonomously execute the aforementioned pipeline, current advanced agentic
RAG mainly adopts outcome-based RL [27, 54]. However, these methods rely on high-resource RL
methods such as PPO [51] and GRPO [52], which require continuous inference and retrieval during
training, and these methods only focus on the final results, making it difficult to effectively control the
reasoning steps. Although some methods utilize GPT-4o to annotate intermediate reasoning steps [83]

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

12

Zhang et al.

Fig. 5. The overall training framework for TeaRAG follows a two-stage paradigm. First, we conduct
SFT on the preprocessed MuSiQue dataset to help the LLM learn the required format and develop
basic reasoning skills. In the second stage, we apply IP-DPO with a process-aware reward to further
improve the model while preventing overthinking.

or consider complex rewards in the PPO framework [66], these approaches make it difficult to achieve
efficient, low-resource training of agentic RAG. Therefore, to control the number of reasoning steps
𝑘 in P𝑘 and enable efficient training, we propose a two-stage training paradigm that improves the
efficiency and conciseness of reasoning by introducing process-level rewards. The overall training
framework is shown in Fig. 5. In the first stage, SFT trains the model on basic reasoning patterns. In
the second stage, IP-DPO is applied to further enhance the model’s generalization.

4.3.1 First Stage: SFT. To build reasoning SFT data, we use the Musique dataset [58], which
provides structured query decomposition and supporting golden evidence paragraphs. Each reasoning
step is constructed as follows:
(1) Knowledge extraction: We first process the golden evidence paragraphs of the current subquery
with Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct to extract a set of knowledge triples, which are aligned with our
knowledge graph construction. From this set, Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct then identifies the supporting
triplets that directly answer each intermediate subquery.

(2) Important entity recognition: We view the entities in supporting triplets as anchor entities.
(3) Subquery generation: We employ Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct to transform the structured intermedi-

ate questions from Musique into fluent, natural language subqueries.

(4) Context simulation: To improve the model’s ability to locate supporting facts, we synthetically
construct a context for training. We create this context by taking the golden evidence paragraphs
and randomly inserting the evidence triplets. This process helps the LLM learn to adapt to diverse
and imperfect contexts.

(5) Summary formulation: We use diverse templates to construct target summaries. Every summary
follows a two-part structure. It first presents the key supporting triplets and then concludes with
the answer to the subquery.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

Step i:EntitySubqueryContextSummaryStep i:EntitySubqueryContextSummaryFirst Stage: SFTSecond Stage: IP-DPOSFT Data Construction Based on MuSiQueKnowledge ExtractionEntity RecognitionForm Natural SubqueryContext SimulationSummary FormulationMaster the format and basic reasoning(𝐼,𝑞)Θ!"#Θ!Next iterationInference(𝐼,𝑞,𝒫$,𝑎)Reward Design(𝐼,𝑞,O%,O")DPO+SFTReasoning PathsTraining PairsSampling DataΘ&1. Output Reward2. Format Reward3. Process RewardPair Construction𝑎=Kreuzlingen𝑎!"=KreuzlingenStep i:EntitySubqueryContextSummaryConsistencyKnowledgeMatchingLearn from SFTAlign entities and subqueriesReasoning PathProcess MemoryVectorTeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

13

After constructing each reasoning step, we concatenate them in the order specified by the Musique
dataset to form a complete reasoning path. Alternatively, each individual reasoning step can be
treated as a single-hop question. We denote the SFT dataset as S𝑆𝐹𝑇 = {(𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂)} = {(𝐼, 𝑞, [P𝑘, 𝑎])},
where 𝑂 represents either the direct output of the LLM or context autonomously retrieved by the
LLM. The SFT dataset statistics are shown in Table 1.

To avoid interfering with the LLM’s ability to learn reasoning patterns due to the retrieved context,
following [27], we mask the context between the two special tokens <Reference> and </Reference>.
We fine-tune the model on the SFT dataset, using the following objective function:

L𝑆𝐹𝑇 = −E(𝐼,𝑞,𝑂 )∼S𝑆𝐹𝑇

|𝑂 |
∑︁

𝑡 =1

I[𝑂𝑡 not masked] log 𝑃 (𝑂𝑡 | 𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂<𝑡 ; Θ),

(4)

where I is the indicator function, and Θ denotes the parameters of the LLM. Through SFT training,
the model can generate outputs following the constructed reasoning path structure and acquire
preliminary reasoning capabilities.

4.3.2 Second Stage: IP-DPO. The models trained with SFT are not optimized for real-world
retrieval environments. Consequently, their reasoning abilities are poorly suited to realistic retrieval
scenarios, and they exhibit limited generalization [32]. To address this issue and control the number
of reasoning steps 𝑘, we propose IP-DPO, which introduces a process-aware reward and uses iterative
DPO [49] to optimize the LLMs for better and more concise reasoning paths. First, we collect a
sampling dataset containing a diverse set of tasks and use the LLM to generate outputs for this
dataset. Next, we score each sampled instance with a process-aware reward and the final outcome.
These scored data are then used to construct data pairs, which serve as the training inputs for IP-DPO.
After each training cycle, we resample using the updated model and repeat this process iteratively to
improve performance further.

Dataset collection. To enhance data diversity, we collect a dataset by sampling from the training
sets of NQ [33], HotpotQA [75], and Musique [58]. From the NQ dataset, we randomly sample
4,000 single-hop questions. From the HotpotQA dataset, we sample questions from the hard level
that contain as many evidence sentences as possible, drawing 2,500 questions each from the bridge
and comparison types. From the Musique dataset, we sample a total of 1,000 questions, distributed
evenly across the 2-hop, 3-hop, and 4-hop data. The data statistic is shown in Table 2. The model
then performs inference using the overall pipeline on each question in this dataset to repeatedly
generate 𝑅 reasoning paths. For each reasoning path, both the reasoning process and the final answer
are recorded for subsequent evaluation.

Reward design. To better guide the LLM’s reasoning process and encourage more concise
reasoning steps, we design a process-aware reward based on knowledge matching. This enables a
more fine-grained evaluation of the quality of different generated outputs. Our total reward system
consists of three components: the outcome reward, the format reward, and the process reward.

The first part is the outcome reward, which is based on a comparison between the final answer
generated by the LLM and the ground truth from the dataset. Because rewards based on an exact
match are too sparse to effectively compare the accuracy of LLM-generated answers, we follow [54]
and use the F1 score as the metric for the outcome reward. Specifically, we define the outcome reward
as follows:

𝑟outcome(𝑎, 𝑎𝑔𝑡 ) = 2 ·

,

(5)

|𝑎 ∩ 𝑎𝑔𝑡 |
|𝑎| + |𝑎𝑔𝑡 |

where 𝑎𝑔𝑡 represents the ground truth, |𝑎| is the word count of the LLM-generated answer 𝑎, and
|𝑎 ∩ 𝑎𝑔𝑡 | is the number of overlapping words between 𝑎 and 𝑎𝑔𝑡 .

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

14

Zhang et al.

The second part is the format reward, which evaluates whether the structure of the model’s
reasoning path conforms to the structure constructed in Section 4.2. The format reward of reasoning
path P𝑘 and final answer 𝑎 is defined as follows:

𝑟format(P𝑘, 𝑎) =

(cid:40)

1,
0,

if the format is followed
otherwise,

(6)

The third part is the process reward, which assesses the rationality of the LLM’s reasoning process.
The process rewards include two components: entity-subquery consistency reward and knowledge
matching rewards. The first component is the entity-subquery consistency reward, intended to align
the entities identified by the LLM with the anchor of the subsequent subquery. This alignment enables
more targeted question decomposition and more precise PPR filtering. We implement a cover exact
match (CEM) mechanism that mandates complete inclusion of key entities within the subquery. The
corresponding reward function is defined as follows:

𝑟consistency (P𝑘 ) =

1
𝑘

𝑘
∑︁

𝑖=1

CEM([𝑣𝑖
𝑟 𝑖

1

, . . . , 𝑣𝑖

𝑗 ], 𝑞𝑖 ),

CEM([𝑣𝑖
𝑟 𝑖

1

, . . . , 𝑣𝑖

𝑗 ], 𝑞𝑖 ) =

(cid:40)

1,
0,

1 ⊆ 𝑞𝑖 ∧ . . . ∧ 𝑣𝑖

𝑗 ⊆ 𝑞𝑖

if 𝑣𝑖
otherwise

(7)

(8)

.

The second component is the knowledge matching rewards. These rewards evaluate the correctness
of the LLM’s reasoning process by assessing whether its intermediate steps successfully capture
the golden evidence. We evaluate three types of intermediate steps: subqueries, retrieved contexts,
and summaries. We denote the set of golden evidence for an overall question as 𝐺 = [𝑔1, . . . , 𝑔𝑙 ],
where 𝑙 is the number of golden evidence pieces. The non-deterministic nature of the reasoning
process makes it difficult to pre-assign which specific step should capture a particular piece of golden
evidence. To address this, following [66], we create a memory vector for each type of intermediate
step. This vector stores the maximum similarity score achieved between each piece of evidence
and any step in the reasoning path P𝑘 . This score serves as a metric to evaluate whether the model
successfully integrated the required evidence. Specifically, we denote the subquery memory vector
as M𝑞 = [𝑚𝑞
𝑡 records the maximum similarity between the golden evidence 𝑔𝑡
and any subquery 𝑞𝑖 in the reasoning path (where 1 ≤ 𝑡 ≤ 𝑙):

𝑙 ]. Here, 𝑚𝑞

, . . . , 𝑚𝑞

1

𝑚𝑞

𝑡 =

𝑘
max
𝑖=1

sim𝜃 (𝑔𝑡, 𝑞𝑖 ),

(9)

where sim𝜃 () is a similarity function based on a reranker model 𝜃 , which uses a sigmoid function to
normalize the score to the range [0, 1]. Similarly, we define the context memory vector M𝑐 and the
summary memory vector M𝑠 . The corresponding memory elements, 𝑚𝑐
𝑡 , are calculated as
follows:

𝑡 and 𝑚𝑠

𝑚𝑐

𝑡 =

𝑘
max
𝑖=1

max
𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡 ∈ C𝑞𝑖

sim𝜃 (𝑔𝑡, 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡),

(10)

𝑚𝑠

𝑘
max
𝑖=1

sim𝜃 (𝑔𝑡, 𝑠𝑖 ).

𝑡 =

(11)
These calculations yield three memory vectors, M𝑞, M𝑐, and M𝑠 , for the LLM’s reasoning
process. For a multi-hop question with 𝑙 pieces of golden evidence, an ideal path might decompose
the problem into approximately 𝑙 subqueries. For a reasoning path P𝑘 with 𝑘 steps, a value of
𝑘 ≤ 𝑙 suggests a concise reasoning process without redundant retrievals. Conversely, when 𝑘 > 𝑙, it
may indicate inefficiencies such as overthinking or repetitive searches. To promote conciseness and

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

15

penalize inefficiency, we normalize the summed memory scores by the number of steps, 𝑘. The final
rewards are calculated as follows:

𝑟𝑞 (P𝑘 ) =

(cid:205) M𝑞
𝑘

,

𝑟𝑐 (P𝑘 ) =

(cid:205) M𝑐
𝑘

,

𝑟𝑠 (P𝑘 ) =

(cid:205) M𝑠
𝑘

,

(12)

where 𝑟𝑞 (P𝑘 ), 𝑟𝑐 (P𝑘 ), and 𝑟𝑠 (P𝑘 ) are the process rewards for subquery generation, the retrieved
context, and the summary, respectively. Based on these rewards, the overall process reward is as
follows:

𝑟𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 (P𝑘 ) = 0.1𝑟consistency(P𝑘 ) + 0.3𝑟𝑞 (P𝑘 ) + 0.3𝑟𝑐 (P𝑘 ) + 0.3𝑟𝑠 (P𝑘 ).
DPO pair construction. Based on the above reward design, each reasoning path can obtain three
rewards: 𝑟 𝑓 𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑡 , 𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒 , and 𝑟𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 . For the DPO algorithm [49], the key is how to construct
positive-negative pairs to learn preferences. To this end, we design the following pair construction
algorithm.

(13)

First, we select the chosen response set, which exhibits a more accurate reasoning process. Our
approach varies based on the question type. For single-hop questions, which are typically simple and
whose answers can be found with a single retrieval, we do not apply a process reward. This is also
because our single-hop dataset lacks golden evidence. Instead, we directly scale the outcome reward
by dividing it by the length of the reasoning path 𝑘, setting 𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒 = 𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒
and 𝑟𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 = 0. This
approach incentivizes the LLM to solve single-hop questions in a single step. For more complex
multi-hop questions, we utilize the process reward to differentiate and evaluate the quality of the
reasoning steps. When considering format and outcome rewards, we must also ensure that the process
reward is sufficiently high. Furthermore, many reasoning paths in multi-hop questions demonstrate
relatively good reasoning processes, but due to variations in the presentation of the output, there
are cases where small differences exist between the outcome and ground truth. Therefore, we have
relaxed the conditions. Given a question 𝑞, the chosen response set W is formally defined as:

𝑘





W =

(𝑞, P𝑘, 𝑎, 𝑟 𝑓 𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑡, 𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒, 𝑟𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 )

(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)
(cid:12)

𝑟 𝑓 𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑡 = 1 ∧ 𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒 = 1,

(cid:16)
𝑟 𝑓 𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑡 = 1 ∧



(𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒 = 1 ∧ 𝑟𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 ≥ 0.7)∨

(cid:17)

if 𝑞 is single-hop

.





,

, 𝑎+, 𝑟 +

(𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒 ≥ 0.8 ∧ 𝑟𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 ≥ 0.8)

if 𝑞 is multi-hop
(14)
Next, for each selected response in W, we choose a corresponding rejected response. Given a
chosen response (𝑞, P+
process), we rank sampled reasoning paths for the question
𝑘
𝑞 in ascending order based on the sum of the three reward scores. While traversing this ranked list
sequentially, we define three types of rejected samples:
• Format rejection: 𝑟 −
• Easy rejection: 𝑟 −
correct answer.
• Hard rejection: 𝑟 −

outcome ≤ 0.3. The path adheres to the format but fails to reach the

format = 0. The reasoning path violates the required format.

format = 1 and 𝑟 −

process. The path largely

outcome − 0.3, and 𝑟 −

format = 1, 0.3 < 𝑟 −

outcome ≤ 𝑟 +

process ≤ 𝑟 +

outcome

format

, 𝑟 +

, 𝑟 +

progresses toward an answer but still contains specific errors.

To maintain the data diversity of DPO pairs, once a rejected response is obtained for a chosen sample,
the algorithm continues traversing the ranked list from the next position to find the next rejected
sample for the next chosen sample of the question 𝑞. This approach prevents the selection of duplicate
rejected samples. Additionally, for single-hop questions, due to their simplicity, rejected samples are
limited to format and easy rejection. Following this procedure, we construct the DPO pair dataset.
We denote the dataset at iteration 𝑝 by S𝐷𝑃𝑂 −𝑝 = {(𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂 +, 𝑂 −)}.

Iterative DPO training. Given that the quality of samples generated by the preliminary SFT model
remains suboptimal, the performance gains from a single round of DPO training are inherently limited.
To address this, we adopt an iterative DPO procedure designed to enhance the model’s comprehension

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

16

Zhang et al.

of preference patterns and enable progressively stronger alignment. Following [46, 47], we jointly
optimize the DPO objective together with the SFT objective to mitigate distribution shift in the
model’s chosen responses. The training losses are defined as follows:

L𝑆𝐹𝑇 = −E(𝐼,𝑞,𝑂 +,𝑂 − )∼S𝐷𝑃𝑂 −𝑝

|𝑂 + |
∑︁

𝑡 =1

I[𝑂 +

𝑡 not masked] log 𝑃 (𝑂 +
𝑡

| 𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂 +

<𝑡 ; Θ𝑝 ),

(15)

L𝐷𝑃𝑂 = −E(𝐼,𝑞,𝑂 +,𝑂 − )∼S𝐷𝑃𝑂 −𝑝

log 𝜎

(cid:34)

(cid:32)

𝛽

|𝑂 + |
∑︁

I[𝑂 +

𝑡 not masked] log

𝑃 (𝑂 +
𝑡
𝑃 (𝑂 +
𝑡

| 𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂 +
| 𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂 +

<𝑡 ; Θ𝑝 )
<𝑡 ; Θ𝑝 −1)

𝑡 =1
|𝑂 − |
∑︁

𝑡 =1

−𝛽

I[𝑂 −

𝑡 not masked] log

𝑃 (𝑂 −
𝑡
𝑃 (𝑂 −
𝑡

| 𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂 −
| 𝐼, 𝑞, 𝑂 −

<𝑡 ; Θ𝑝 )
<𝑡 ; Θ𝑝 −1)

(cid:33)(cid:35)

,

(16)

L𝐴𝐿𝐿 = 𝜂L𝑆𝐹𝑇 + L𝐷𝑃𝑂,
(17)
where 𝛽 and 𝜂 are hyperparameters, and Θ𝑝 denotes the model parameters in the 𝑝-th round, initialized
from Θ𝑝 −1. Θ0 represents the model parameters after the first-stage SFT.

Once the model completes training with the aforementioned loss function, the next round of data
sampling, sample reward scoring, pair construction, and training can be performed, implementing
iterative DPO training to continuously optimize the model’s capabilities.

5 Experiments

5.1 Experiment Setup
5.1.1 Datasets and Evaluation Metrics. We utilize the training dataset constructed in Sec-
tion 4.3 to perform SFT and IP-DPO. The statistics of these datasets are shown in Table 1 and
Table 2. Besides, we focus on question-answer (QA) datasets to test our model. For single-hop QA
datasets, we use NQ [33] and PopQA [44]. For multi-hop QA datasets, we use HotpotQA [75],
2WikiMultiHopQA [18], Musique [58], and Bamboogle [48]. For datasets without a test set, we
use the development set for testing. The statistical details of these datasets are shown in Table 3.
Since we use some training data from NQ, HotpotQA, and Musique, the tests on NQ, HotpotQA, and
Musique datasets are in-domain tests, and the tests on PopQA, 2WikiMultiHopQA, and Bamboogle
are out-of-domain tests. For the retrieval corpus, following [28], we adopt the Wikipedia corpus
dated December 20, 2018 [30], as the chunk corpus. The statistics of the chunk corpus are shown in
Table 4. Based on the knowledge graph construction method described in Section 4.1, we constructed
a large-scale knowledge graph, and the statistical information of this knowledge graph is shown in
Table 5. For all datasets, we adopt EM and F1 as the evaluation metrics.

5.1.2 Baselines. We compare our TeaRAG with various baselines, which are divided into the
following two categories: one-turn generation and iterative RAG.

One-turn generation prepares all the required information and utilize the LLM in a single pass to

generate the final answer. The methods in this category are as follows:
• Zero-shot: This method directly uses the LLM to generate answers to questions without retrieving

relevant information.

• RAG [35]: This is the standard RAG method that uses semantic retrieval to search for relevant text
chunks from the corpus, which are then input as evidence to the LLM to directly generate answers.
• Rerank [79]: This method uses semantic retrieval to search for relevant text chunks from the
corpus, then applies reranking to filter noise, before inputting them as evidence to the LLM to
directly generate answers.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

17

Table 1. SFT data distribution.

Dataset

1-hop 2-hop 3-hop 4-hop Total

Train
Test

2,700
300

1,800
200

1,800
200

1,057
118

7,357
818

Table 3. QA datasets for testing.

Task

Single-hop QA

Dataset

NQ
PopQA

# Dev

# Test

8,757

3,610
– 14,267

Multi-hop QA

7,405
HotpotQA
2WikiMultiHopQA 12,576
2,417
Musique
–
Bamboogle

–
–
–
125

Table 2. IP-DPO dataset composition.

Source Dataset Number

NQ
HotpotQA
Musique

Total

4,000
5,000
1,000

10,000

Table 4. Chunk corpus statistics.

Metric

Value

Size of document set
Size of chunk set D
Average length of chunk

3,232,908
21,015,324
100

Table 5. Knowledge graph statistics.

Metric
Size of entity set V
Size of relation set E
Average out-degree per head entity
Average in-degree per tail entity
Average degree per entity

Value

51,063,765
130,931,564
9.24
3.05
5.13

• RECOMP𝑎𝑏𝑠 [73]: This method uses a compressor to extract core information related to the

question from retrieved chunks before inputting them to the LLM.

• MixPR-RAG [1]: This method constructs a semantic graph from each sentence in the chunks and

uses PPR to filter out important sentences to input to the LLM.
Iterative RAG utilizes LLMs to autonomously determine whether retrieval is needed, making
multiple calls to retrieval tools and integrating multiple retrieval contexts to derive the final answer.
The methods in this category are as follows:
• IRCoT [59]: This method iteratively utilizes Chain-of-Thought (CoT) to guide retrieval and uses

retrieval results to enhance CoT to derive the final answer.

• SelfRAG [2]: This method utilizes LLMs to generate special tokens to help the model decide

when to retrieve and whether to use the retrieved content.

• R1-Searcher [54]: This method employs two-stage training. The first stage trains the model to
learn generating retrieval queries, and the second stage uses outcome-based and format rewards to
train LLMs to automatically invoke retrieval during reasoning. Based on Reinforce++ [20], this
method is trained using data from HotpotQA and 2WikiMultiHopQA. We use two versions of
models trained by this method: R1-Searcher-Llama-8B and R1-Searcher-Qwen-7B.

• Search-R1 [27]: This method utilizes PPO [51] with complete NQ and HotpotQA training data to
optimize LLMs based solely on outcome rewards. We test four versions of models trained by this
method: Search-R1-instruct-7B, Search-R1-base-7B, Search-R1-instruct-14B, Search-R1-base-
14B.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

18

Zhang et al.

For all baselines, the retrieval systems use E5-base-V2 [64] as the retriever unless otherwise
specified. The “+R” symbol indicates that the retrieval system incorporates both retrieval and
reranking stages, with BGE-reranker-v2 [5] serving as the reranker model. This configuration ensures
a fair comparison with our TeaRAG.

5.1.3 Implementation Details. To ensure robustness, we employ two widely used LLMs for
training and inference: Llama3-8B-Instruct [13] and Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct [74]. For the retrieval
stage, following [28], we utilize E5-base-V2 [64] as the retriever and BGE-reranker-v2 [5] as the
reranker, which together constitute our retrieval system R. For semantic retrieval, we retrieve the
top-20 chunks, which are then reranked to a final set of 𝑘𝑑 = 5 chunks. For graph retrieval, we initially
retrieve the top-10 entities and 20 edges. After reranking, these are narrowed down to 5 entities and
𝑘𝑡 = 10 edges. The final number of items composing the context is set to 𝑘𝑓 = 5. During the PPR
process, we set the hyperparameters 𝜏 = 0.2 and 𝛼 = 0.5. The iteration 𝑁 of PPR is set to 200. We
configure the LLM to perform a maximum of 5 reasoning steps, i.e., 𝑘 ≤ 5.

For training, our experiments are conducted using 8 NVIDIA A100 (80G) GPUs. In the SFT phase,
the learning rate is set to 5 × 10−4, with an overall batch size of 128 and a per-device batch size of 16.
We train for 1 epoch with a weight decay of 0.001. In the IP-DPO phase, 𝑅 = 8 reasoning paths are
repeatedly sampled for each question. And the number of epochs for the first two DPO rounds is set
to 2, while the final round is trained for only 1 epoch to prevent overfitting from data repetition. The
hyperparameter 𝛽 is set to 0.5. The SFT weighting parameter 𝜂 is tuned within the range [0.25, 0.5, 1]
and is progressively reduced as DPO iterations increase to prevent overfitting. Besides, the learning
rate is set to 1 × 10−4, the overall batch size is 16, the per-device batch size is 2, and the weight decay
is 0.001. In both training stages, we adopt LoRA [19] for parameter-efficient fine-tuning. We set the
LoRA rank to 8, 𝛼 to 32, and dropout to 0.1, and apply it to the q_proj, k_proj, v_proj, and
o_proj layers.

5.2 Overall Performance

The overall performance of the model is shown in Table 6. We have the following observations:
(1) Our TeaRAG outperforms existing agentic RAG methods on most datasets and achieves the
best average performance across all datasets. This demonstrates the effectiveness of TeaRAG,
which successfully boosts the performance of LLMs on RAG tasks by constructing a KAG-based
agentic workflow combined with process supervision, outperforming previous outcome-based
agentic RAG approaches.

(2) The two-stage training paradigm significantly boosts the performance of TeaRAG. In
the first training stage, SFT yields substantial performance improvements for TeaRAG-SFT,
surpassing both the prompt-based agentic RAG approach, IRCOT, and the SFT-trained agentic
RAG system, SelfRAG. Based on TeaRAG-SFT, the second stage, IP-DPO, delivers a pronounced
enhancement. Specifically, IP-DPO achieves a relative gain in average EM score of 38.57% on
Llama3-8B-Instruct and 23.43% on Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct. These improvements highlight the
effectiveness of IP-DPO in strengthening the model’s generalization capability.

(3) TeaRAG demonstrates strong out-of-domain generalizability. Across both single-hop and
multi-hop out-of-domain datasets, including PopQA, 2WikiMultiHopQA, and Bamboogle, our
method delivers excellent performance. On the 2WikiMultiHopQA dataset, using the Llama3-8B-
Instruct base model, TeaRAG-8B not only surpasses Search-R1-base-7B+R in the out-of-domain
test by a significant margin but also achieves results on par with those of R1-Searcher-Qwen-
7B+R in the in-domain evaluation.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

19

Table 6. Performance comparison of various methods on six QA benchmarks. “*” indicates testing
using officially released LLMs. “+R” indicates that the retrieval system includes retrieval and rerank
stages. The best results are highlighted in bold. “†” indicates the statistically significant improvements
in average results (i.e., two-sided t-test with 𝑝 < 0.05) over all baselines.

LLM

Method

NQ

PopQA

HotpotQA

2Wiki

Musique

Bamboogle

Avg.

Llama3-8B

Qwen2.5-14B

F1
EM
zero-shot
31.62
22.49
RAG
47.19
36.03
Rerank
48.48
37.28
RECOMP𝑎𝑏𝑠
45.72
35.76
MixPR-RAG
38.88
26.73
IRCoT
46.57
35.31
SelfRAG*
41.86
33.90
R1-Searcher-Llama-8B*
49.89
39.92
R1-Searcher-Llama-8B*+R 39.92
50.27
R1-Searcher-Qwen-7B*
50.91
40.33
R1-Searcher-Qwen-7B*+R 42.08
52.95
Search-R1-instruct-7B*
23.77
19.81
Search-R1-base-7B*
57.86
49.11
50.39
Search-R1-base-7B*+R
59.09
TeaRAG-SFT-8B
38.56 47.46
50.06 59.71
TeaRAG-8B
zero-shot
31.16
21.57
RAG
46.03
32.77
Rerank
46.71
33.29
RECOMP𝑎𝑏𝑠
45.25
34.87
MixPR-RAG
46.42
33.40
IRCoT
39.95
28.31
SelfRAG*
41.86
33.90
R1-Searcher-Llama-8B*
49.89
39.92
R1-Searcher-Llama-8B*+R 39.92
50.27
R1-Searcher-Qwen-7B*
50.91
40.33
R1-Searcher-Qwen-7B*+R 42.08
52.95
Search-R1-instruct-14B*
50.05
41.83
Search-R1-base-14B*
58.36
49.67
51.27
Search-R1-base-14B*+R
60.07
TeaRAG-SFT-14B
43.52 52.77
50.33 60.31
TeaRAG-14B

EM
22.56
37.73
41.08
42.79
35.22
39.72
19.21
42.01
44.31
39.03
41.48
20.84
47.14
49.86
46.56
51.98
20.40
37.97
40.87
43.64
38.57
34.25
19.21
42.01
44.31
39.03
41.48
36.13
48.10
50.33
49.60
53.59

F1
26.84
46.43
50.27
49.08
44.96
47.42
31.27
47.31
49.79
45.33
47.94
22.87
51.23
54.00
50.67
56.08
24.42
46.51
49.75
49.42
46.76
41.43
31.27
47.31
49.79
45.33
47.94
39.91
51.69
53.89
53.88
58.02

F1
EM
26.91
19.14
35.69
25.29
29.53
40.80
27.77 37.71
23.07 34.47
44.67
33.50
28.36
16.12
55.12
43.46
57.73
45.77
57.51
45.01
60.40
47.56
20.36
16.02
56.81
44.89
47.66
60.14
28.86 38.23
46.59 59.48
31.38
22.61
39.55
28.14
32.47
44.80
27.42 38.25
31.51 43.73
34.43
23.76
28.36
16.12
55.12
43.46
57.73
45.77
57.51
45.01
60.40
47.56
37.44
28.70
59.97
47.78
49.93
62.31
39.42 50.40
49.93 63.14

F1
EM
26.14
17.81
20.18
8.19
22.12
9.64
29.86
23.17
21.02
7.96
34.58
25.81
23.24
11.72
50.12
44.92
51.41
46.39
53.91
47.64
55.55
49.16
12.94
11.22
43.03
37.02
39.49
45.65
26.39 31.99
47.89 54.21
32.58
26.78
29.13
18.94
31.88
21.66
30.54
23.17
32.16
21.77
19.29
10.95
23.24
11.72
50.12
44.92
51.41
46.39
53.91
47.64
55.55
49.16
19.36
15.94
52.22
46.33
54.51
48.88
36.34 42.39
52.29 57.91

EM
4.30
4.71
5.54
5.00
3.72
9.43
4.38
17.54
18.58
21.97
22.59
4.92
20.60
21.64
18.99
26.98
5.13
6.04
7.86
5.33
6.74
7.36
4.38
17.54
18.58
21.97
22.59
13.82
24.95
27.18
21.56
27.93

EM
F1
12.80
10.00
8.80
10.26
11.20
12.08
10.40
10.56
8.80
10.08
32.80
15.87
4.00
12.49
44.00
25.46
40.80
26.53
45.60
30.86
40.80
31.80
18.40
7.04
48.80
29.28
51.20
30.57
27.57 36.00
37.34 47.20
15.20
13.79
16.00
12.76
22.40
15.77
14.40
11.18
18.40
14.74
24.00
12.12
4.00
12.49
44.00
25.46
40.80
26.53
45.60
30.86
40.80
31.80
32.80
18.55
51.20
33.40
51.20
35.46
32.23 40.00
39.22 50.40

F1
18.91
17.82
19.94
19.69
18.85
43.21
14.47
55.57
54.10
55.39
55.46
21.73
59.73
64.51
47.96
59.89
25.06
29.81
32.03
23.55
29.87
34.67
14.47
55.57
54.10
55.39
55.46
43.50
64.78
65.62
52.79
64.07

EM
16.41
20.12
22.37
24.14
17.58
29.42
14.88
38.64
39.29
39.93
40.61
15.20
41.26
43.37
32.56
45.12†
18.61
23.31
26.42
24.80
25.06
21.43
14.88
38.64
39.29
39.93
40.61
28.20
44.67
46.47
38.41
47.41†

F1
23.40
29.59
32.28
32.10
28.04
38.72
25.28
47.25
48.30
48.98
50.68
18.12
49.66
52.33
40.65
54.45†
26.39
33.96
36.82
33.03
35.61
30.31
25.28
47.25
48.30
48.98
50.68
34.80
53.40
55.31
47.41
57.11†

(4) More powerful LLMs achieve superior results. This shows that TeaRAG leverages the core
capabilities of LLMs. As the LLM’s power increases, the agentic RAG’s information-gathering
abilities are correspondingly enhanced.

(5) More advanced retrieval systems are capable of yielding better results. For a fair comparison
with TeaRAG, we enhanced the original Search-R1 and R1-Searcher with a reranking-integrated
retrieval system, which led to a significant performance increase. The continued superiority
of TeaRAG over these augmented baselines highlights the effectiveness of its context retrieval
strategy.

5.3 Analysis of Reasoning Paths
5.3.1 Distribution of the Number of Reasoning Steps. We present the reasoning step distribu-
tion of TeaRAG and other similarly-scaled agentic RAG baselines in Fig. 6. Since most methods
require at least one reasoning step, we show the distribution of reasoning steps from 1 to 5. We obtain
the following observations:
(1) TeaRAG requires shorter reasoning steps compared to agentic RAG baseline methods.
This indicates that by incorporating process supervision signals, we effectively guide the LLM’s
reasoning process, reducing indirection and improving overall efficiency.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

20

Zhang et al.

Fig. 6. Comparison of reasoning step distributions between TeaRAG and other agentic RAG baselines.
The figure on the left depicts the comparative results for TeaRAG-8B, while the figure on the right
depicts those for TeaRAG-14B.

(2) Stronger information retrieval capabilities slightly improve reasoning efficiency. For in-
stance, by enhancing retrieval capabilities in the reranking stage, Search-R1-base-14B+R shows
an increase in the proportion of reasoning completed in one or two steps to 54.3%, up from 50.9%
for Search-R1-base-14B. This finding indirectly validates the effectiveness of TeaRAG’s re-
trieval strategy, which leverages KAG construction to improve information accuracy and prevent
repetitive searches that occur when critical information is not retrieved.

(3) The distribution of reasoning path lengths for TeaRAG is stable across different base models.
In contrast, for the Search-R1 baseline, the proportion of one-step reasoning drops from 22.0%
with Search-R1-base-7B+R to just 3.4% with Search-R1-base-14B+R. This suggests that the
Search-R1 algorithm is highly sensitive to model scale. Conversely, the reasoning path lengths
of TeaRAG remain remarkably stable across both 8B and 14B model scales, demonstrating our
method’s robustness and generalizability.

5.3.2 Analysis of Token Usage of Reasoning Paths. To analyze the token usage of the LLM’s
reasoning path more clearly, we measure four key metrics. (1) Thinking tokens, which are used
for the LLM’s thought processes like planning, problem decomposition, and summarization. (2)
Retrieved Content tokens, which represent the token count for all externally retrieved information
in the reasoning path. (3) Total tokens, which denote the tokens for the complete reasoning path
including both Thinking tokens and Retrieved Content tokens. (4) Content per Retrieval, which is
the average number of content tokens input to the LLM per retrieval. The results are shown in Fig. 7.

Based on these results, we can draw the following conclusions:

(1) TeaRAG demonstrates superior token efficiency compared to the other baselines across all
four metrics. This is primarily because introducing signals from process supervision enhances
the LLM’s reasoning efficiency, which in turn reduces ineffective reasoning and redundant
retrievals, thereby significantly improving token efficiency. Furthermore, our adoption of the
KAG retrieval method also reduces the number of tokens required per retrieval.

(2) TeaRAG’s retrieval method effectively reduces the number of external content tokens
per retrieval. This is achieved by PPR to replace redundant and irrelevant chunks with high-
information-density triplets. As a result, TeaRAG-8B reduces the average tokens per retrieval by
23.80% compared to Search-R1-base-7B+R.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

12345Reasoning Steps01020304050607080Proportion (%)12.2464.3817.484.330.5621.9625.8730.0217.674.4873.1823.472.480.690.18R1-Searcher-Qwen-7BSearch-R1-base-7BTeaRAG-8B12345Reasoning Steps01020304050607080Proportion (%)2.8148.1036.268.973.863.4450.8533.808.743.1672.5224.792.470.200.01Search-R1-base-14BSearch-R1-base-14B+RTeaRAG-14BTeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

21

Fig. 7. Comparison of output token usage between TeaRAG and other agentic RAG baselines. The
figure on the left depicts the comparative results for TeaRAG-8B, while the figure on the right depicts
those for TeaRAG-14B.

Table 7. Performance comparison of context retrieval methods on QA benchmarks. CpR represents
the average number of content tokens per retrieval. The best results are highlighted in bold.

LLM

Method

Retrieval

Iterative CpR

NQ

PopQA

HotpotQA

2Wiki

Musique

Bamboogle

Avg.

Llama3-8B

Qwen2.5-14B

Single-G

Single-S

Graph

Semantic

Single-Con

Hybrid

Single-PPR

Hybrid

TeaRAG-G

Graph

TeaRAG-S

Semantic

TeaRAG-Con Hybrid

TeaRAG

Single-G

Single-S

Hybrid

Graph

Semantic

Single-Con

Hybrid

Single-PPR

Hybrid

TeaRAG-G

Graph

TeaRAG-S

Semantic

TeaRAG-Con Hybrid

TeaRAG

Hybrid

✘

✘

✘

✘

✔

✔

✔

✔

✘

✘

✘

✘

✔

✔

✔

✔

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

79

25.76 32.83 41.49 46.53

21.74

29.07

14.65

19.82

4.26

9.65

12.00

18.65

19.98

26.09

779

859

650

37.28 48.48 41.08 50.27

29.53

40.80

9.64

22.12

5.54

12.08

11.20

19.94

22.37

32.28

40.61 50.24 44.69 52.10

29.71

40.32

10.50

20.73

5.92

11.94

16.00

23.82

24.57

33.19

38.89 49.52 44.72 52.84

31.42

41.69

12.59

20.58

7.65

13.72

16.80

24.06

25.35

33.73

88

34.27 43.20 45.78 49.94

31.71

42.87

40.35

46.04

15.85

25.46

35.20

44.15

33.86

41.94

790

879

618

50.36 59.98 51.66 55.85

46.47

59.25

46.88

53.47

26.44

36.55

47.20

59.32

44.84

54.07

50.08 59.79 51.97 56.25

46.66

59.68

47.38

53.88

26.73

37.11

45.60

58.92

44.74

54.27

50.06 59.71 51.98 56.08

46.59

59.48

47.89

54.21

26.98

37.34

47.20

59.89

45.12

54.45

82

22.69 30.72 37.82 44.41

22.90

30.94

22.97

28.13

3.97

9.71

10.40

17.82

20.12

26.95

814

895

678

33.29 46.71 40.87 49.75

32.47

44.80

21.66

31.88

7.86

15.77

22.40

32.03

26.42

36.82

39.81 51.57 44.48 52.42

37.37

49.26

28.77

35.63

8.48

16.94

18.40

31.64

29.55

39.58

40.91 52.95 46.29 53.48

37.84

49.68

29.87

36.57

9.10

17.42

22.40

34.18

31.07

40.71

90

35.84 44.64 46.58 50.62

34.27

45.33

40.67

46.13

16.22

27.61

38.40

52.11

35.33

44.41

823

902

659

51.30 60.98 53.66 58.09

50.43

63.41

51.77

57.64

28.22

39.37

50.40

65.30

47.63

57.47

50.33 60.31 54.13 58.65

50.71

63.73

52.36

58.13

27.68

39.41

48.00

63.99

47.20

57.37

50.33 60.31 53.59 58.02

49.93

63.14

52.29

57.91

27.93

39.22

50.40

64.07

47.41

57.11

5.4 Ablation Study
5.4.1 Effect of Context Retrieval Methods. We conduct ablation experiments on the context
retrieval methods. We primarily focus on two core retrieval paradigms: iterative and hybrid search.
To further understand the role of these paradigms, we design the following context retrieval variants:
• Single-G performs single-round graph retrieval to obtain knowledge triplets pertinent to the query,

which are subsequently provided to an LLM for answer generation.

• Single-S conducts single-round semantic retrieval to obtain chunks, then feeds them to an LLM

for output.

• Single-Con adopts a single-round hybrid retrieval strategy combining semantic and graph retrieval.
The top-5 chunks and top-5 triplets are concatenated and passed to an LLM for answer generation.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

Contentper RetrievalThinkingRetrievedContentTotal50010001500200025003000Average Token Count8103251,7492,0748111892,0912,28161881803884R1-Searcher-Qwen-7B+RSearch-R1-base-7B+RTeaRAG-8BContentper RetrievalThinkingRetrievedContentTotal50010001500200025003000Average Token Count8062142,1262,3418072122,0832,29565987852938Search-R1-base-14BSearch-R1-base-14B+RTeaRAG-14B22

Zhang et al.

Table 8. Performance comparison of models trained with different rewards. # Pairs indicates the
number of preference pairs used for training. # Steps indicates the number of reasoning path steps.
The best results are highlighted in bold.

Iteration Outcome Format Process

# Pairs

# Steps

NQ

PopQA

HotpotQA

2Wiki

Musique

Bamboogle

Avg.

SFT

1

2

3

✘

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

✔

✘

✘

✔

✔

✘

✔

✔

✔

✔

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

EM

F1

✘

✘

✘

✔

✘

✘

✔

✘

✔

-

8,886

9,198

8,760

5,024

4,576

4,760

3,832

2,941

1.47

1.48

1.48

1.38

1.57

1.76

1.35

2.13

1.31

38.56

47.46

46.56 50.67

28.86

38.23

26.39

31.99

18.99

27.57

36.00

47.96

32.56

40.65

48.39 57.57

50.92 55.37

43.97

55.82

45.52

51.93

24.33

33.69

44.00

56.91

42.85

51.88

48.42 57.49

51.22 55.43

43.58

55.79

46.09

51.97

23.91

33.30

44.00

58.23

42.87

52.03

49.22

58.13 51.97 56.27

44.02

56.25

45.28

51.34

25.69

35.22

41.60

56.18

42.96

52.23

42.11 49.42

46.30 49.76

39.47

49.18

37.76

40.86

17.91

22.62

39.20

46.37

37.12

43.03

48.64 57.94

50.75 55.02

45.25

57.19

44.78

49.99

23.13

32.51

47.20

59.07

43.29

51.95

48.89

58.98 51.28 55.84

45.62

58.88

46.72

53.48

26.02

36.69

43.20

54.58

43.62

53.07

48.42 57.61

50.19 54.30

39.91

49.61

39.42

43.14

18.82

25.28

41.60

50.45

39.73

46.73

50.06

59.71 51.98 56.08

46.59

59.48

47.89

54.21

26.98

37.34

47.20

59.89

45.12

54.45

• Single-PPR applies a hybrid retrieval approach incorporating semantic and graph retrieval. A
KAG is constructed and refined using PPR, after which the top-5 ranked chunks and triplets are
input to an LLM for answer generation.

• TeaRAG-G employs iterative question decomposition via an LLM, retrieving relevant knowledge

triplets exclusively through graph retrieval until the final answer is produced.

• TeaRAG-S employs iterative question decomposition via an LLM, retrieving relevant chunks

solely through semantic retrieval until the final answer is produced.

• TeaRAG-Con employs a hybrid retrieval approach combining semantic and graph retrieval. For
each step, it directly concatenates the top-5 chunks and top-5 triplets to form the context. An LLM
then iteratively invokes this hybrid retrieval and decomposes the question until the final answer is
obtained.
It is worth noting that the Single-Con and TeaRAG-Con methods use 10 information units per
retrieval, while all other methods use 5. We conduct an evaluation of context retrieval methods on two
base models, with the results presented in Table 7. From this, we derive the following observations:
(1) Agentic iterative retrieval excels by decomposing complex problems. This shows that by
breaking down complex problems into simpler ones and solving them step by step, the retrieval
system can better focus its information retrieval on a specific problem, thus obtaining more
accurate results.

(2) Hybrid retrieval achieves superior performance compared to using a single retrieval method.
This indicates that hybrid retrieval leverages the strengths of both semantic and graph retrieval.
The fusion of content retrieved by the two methods further enhances the LLM’s ability to answer
questions, especially for non-iterative methods.

(3) TeaRAG constructs a KAG and applies PPR-based filtering to increase the information
density of retrieved content while preserving strong performance. This is because PPR’s co-
occurrence-based mechanism removes irrelevant or verbose chunks and thereby further enhances
accuracy. In contrast, although TeaRAG-Con utilizes hybrid retrieval, its direct concatenation of
chunks and triplets increases input length and introduces extraneous noise.

(4) Semantic retrieval outperforms graph retrieval by preserving information integrity. This is
primarily because important information within the chunks can be lost during graph construction.
Additionally, the triplets’ lack of sufficient context can lead to ambiguity and increase the
difficulty for the LLM to comprehend.

5.4.2 Effect of Process Rewards. To conduct an in-depth analysis of the advantages offered
by process rewards, we perform an ablation study specifically on process rewards. We validate our

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

23

Fig. 8. Performance of TeaRAG with Llama3-8B-Instruct as the LLM changes across IP-DPO iterations.
The left and middle figures show the EM and F1 scores of TeaRAG on six specific datasets, respectively.
The right figure displays the average EM and F1 scores of TeaRAG across the six datasets.

Fig. 9. Performance of TeaRAG with Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct as the LLM changes across IP-DPO
iterations. The left and middle figures show the EM and F1 scores of TeaRAG on six specific datasets,
respectively. The right figure displays the average EM and F1 scores of TeaRAG across the six
datasets.

approach on Llama3-8B-Instruct, considering three distinct schemes: using only Outcome reward,
using Outcome-Format reward, and using Outcome-Format-Process reward. We train models with
each reward type for multiple rounds. The results are shown in Table 8.

We observe the following phenomena:

(1) Process rewards effectively enhance model performance. By providing rewards for each
intermediate step of the reasoning path, the LLM can learn from high-quality reasoning examples.
(2) Process rewards reduce reasoning steps and increase reasoning efficiency. The reward
mechanism penalizes unnecessary reasoning steps that are not instrumental to problem-solving.
In contrast, models trained without process rewards exhibit a tendency to gradually increase
their reasoning step count. This phenomenon is attributed to the lack of intermediate supervision,
which can reinforce redundant reasoning paths that ultimately lead to the correct result.

(3) Process rewards make training more stable. With only outcome rewards, performance col-
lapses by the second training round. The model learns to favor reasoning paths that reach the

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

NQPopQAHotpotQA2WikiMusiqueBamboogleEM Performance103050TeaRAG-SFTTeaRAG-1TeaRAG-2TeaRAG-3NQPopQAHotpotQA2WikiMusiqueBamboogleF1 Performance103050TeaRAG-SFTTeaRAG-1TeaRAG-2TeaRAG-3Models354045505560Avg.32.640.643.052.243.653.145.154.5EMF1NQPopQAHotpotQA2WikiMusiqueBamboogleEM Performance103050TeaRAG-SFTTeaRAG-1TeaRAG-2TeaRAG-3NQPopQAHotpotQA2WikiMusiqueBamboogleF1 Performance103050TeaRAG-SFTTeaRAG-1TeaRAG-2TeaRAG-3Models4045505560Avg.38.447.446.555.947.056.347.457.1EMF124

Zhang et al.

correct answer despite being in the wrong format, undermining its ability to follow the intended
reasoning structure. Similarly, when using both outcome and format rewards, collapse occurs by
the third round. The model still rewards correct answers produced through flawed logic. This
failure mode is especially common in binary-choice comparison tasks, leading it to internalize
misguided preferences for certain reasoning paths. Process rewards prevent this by construct-
ing preference pairs under stricter criteria, blocking these spurious preferences and stabilizing
training.

5.4.3 Effect of IP-DPO Iterations. We further investigate the impact of the IP-DPO iterations.
We evaluate the models from all training stages of IP-DPO. TeaRAG-SFT denotes the model trained
only with SFT. TeaRAG-1, TeaRAG-2, and TeaRAG-3 refer to the models after 1, 2, and 3 rounds
of DPO training, respectively. The results are presented in Figure 8 and Figure 9. We can draw the
following conclusions:
(1) The performance of TeaRAG exhibits continuous enhancement as the number of IP-DPO
rounds increases. The underlying mechanism is that each round of optimization leverages the
outputs from the model of the preceding round. This enables the model to sequentially master
and refine its reasoning paradigms.

(2) The performance gains from IP-DPO exhibit diminishing returns with additional rounds.
This occurs because the model’s reasoning capabilities begin to converge, establishing a stable
inference pattern. After many rounds of iteration, the model consistently produces correct
responses for many questions, causing the preference data to provide a diminishing learning
signal and thus limiting further improvement.

(3) IP-DPO demonstrates consistent and stable improvements across models of varying scales
and families. This consistent success demonstrates IP-DPO’s broad applicability for enhancing
reasoning across diverse LLMs.

5.5 Hyper-Parameter Analysis

Fig. 10. Performance of TeaRAG-8B and Search-R1-base-7B+R across varying numbers of input
content per retrieval.

5.5.1 Number of Input Contents per Retrieval. In this section, we investigate the impact of the
number of input contents per retrieval on method performance. We compare the EM and F1 scores of
TeaRAG-8B and Search-R1-base-7B+R, as well as TeaRAG-14B and Search-R1-base-14B+R. The
experimental results are shown in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11. We have the following observations:

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

12345Number of Input Contentper Retrieval46485052545658Score(a) Single-hop QA12345Number of Input Contentper Retrieval35404550Score(b) Multi-hop QATeaRAG-8B (F1)Search-R1-base-7B+R (F1)TeaRAG-8B (EM)Search-R1-base-7B+R (EM)12345Number of Input Contentper Retrieval40.042.545.047.550.052.555.0Score(c) Overall QATeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

25

Fig. 11. Performance of TeaRAG-14B and Search-R1-base-14B+R across varying numbers of input
content per retrieval.

(1) The more contents are input per retrieval, the better the model performance, and TeaRAG
generally outperforms the baseline. This indicates that TeaRAG is robust to variations in the
number of input contents per retrieval and can maintain strong performance across different
settings.

(2) When the number of input contents per retrieval is small, TeaRAG cannot fully leverage the
capabilities of LLMs. When the number is larger (≥ 3), it can achieve outstanding results.
This is mainly because TeaRAG ’s training leverages PPR based on the co-occurrence mechanism.
LLMs tend to focus on co-occurring data features, and when the number of input contents
per retrieval is small, co-occurrence is difficult to achieve. This leads to a mismatch between
inference and training, resulting in input distribution drift. When the number is sufficiently large,
the information filtered by PPR has a higher information density, and at the same time, the LLM
can exploit the co-occurrence in the data to achieve better performance.

(3) TeaRAG is more scalable, with a more significant performance boost as the number of input
contents per retrieval increases. This is due to the construction of KAG and effective PPR
filtering, which introduce triplets to increase information density and accuracy, thus reducing
irrelevant content for each input. In contrast, the baseline method typically hits a performance
bottleneck once the number of inputs reaches 3, as traditional retrieval-and-rerank approaches
still cannot avoid interference from irrelevant information in chunks.

5.5.2 Effects of Hyperparameter 𝛼 in PPR. In this section, we explore the PPR hyperparameter
𝛼, which controls the focus of retrieved content. When 𝛼 is small, PPR emphasizes the personalization
vector, i.e., semantic information relevant to the query. When 𝛼 is large, it prioritizes the structured
information of co-occurrence links. The experimental results are shown in Fig. 12. We have the
following observations:
(1) TeaRAG is robust to changes in 𝛼. The performance of TeaRAG varies little for 𝛼 between 0.1
and 0.7. This robustness stems from KAG, which is constructed from the outputs of two retrieval
methods, ensuring that its content is already highly relevant to the query.

(2) TeaRAG achieves better performance by balancing query relevance and co-occurrence
relations. TeaRAG typically performs best when 𝛼 is in the range 0.3 to 0.7. This indicates that
PPR filtering effectively combines both factors to enhance information density and accuracy.
(3) Greater emphasis on co-occurrence structure reduces the average number of content tokens
per retrieval. This is because, as co-occurrence structure receives more weight, information

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

12345Number of Input Contentper Retrieval485052545658Score(a) Single-hop QA12345Number of Input Contentper Retrieval40455055Score(b) Multi-hop QATeaRAG-14B (F1)Search-R1-base-14B+R (F1)TeaRAG-14B (EM)Search-R1-base-14B+R (EM)12345Number of Input Contentper Retrieval42.545.047.550.052.555.057.5Score(c) Overall QA26

Zhang et al.

from triplet nodes connected to entities and chunks is more activated and ranked higher, thereby
reducing the token count. This reveals a trade-off where despite fewer input tokens, missing
important background leads to a significant performance drop, e.g., at 𝛼 = 0.9.

Fig. 12. Performance and the average number of content tokens per retrieval on six QA benchmarks
for TeaRAG-8B and TeaRAG-14B across varying 𝛼 in PPR.

Fig. 13. Performance of TeaRAG-8B with Search-R1-base-7B+R across varying generation tempera-
tures.

5.5.3 Effects of Generation Temperature. Because the sampling temperature has a pronounced
impact on LLM performance [4], we vary the generation temperature for TeaRAG-8B and Search-R1-
base-7B+R to probe robustness. The results are shown in Fig. 13. We have the following observations:
(1) Agentic RAG methods are not sensitive to temperature. This is because agentic RAG not
only requires the LLM to generate content, but also to ground its generation in retrieved external
information, which reduces uncertainty.

(2) TeaRAG-8B consistently outperforms Search-R1-base-7B+R across different temperatures,
further demonstrating the effectiveness and robustness of TeaRAG. We performed a two-
sided paired t-test on the overall QA results, and 𝑝 < 0.05 indicates that our method is significantly
better than Search-R1-base-7B+R.

(3) As temperature increases, the performance of TeaRAG-8B exhibits a slight decline. A likely
reason is that higher temperature induces more diverse reasoning paths, which increases variance

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

46.547.047.5(a) Average EM Score0.10.30.50.70.944.545.0EM Score56.557.057.5(b) Average F1 ScoreTeaRAG-14BTeaRAG-8B0.10.30.50.70.953.554.054.5F1 Score0.10.30.50.70.9550575600625650Content per Retrieval(c) Average Tokens of Content per Retrieval0.20.40.60.81.0Temperature5052545658Score(a) Single-hop QA0.20.40.60.81.0Temperature40.042.545.047.550.052.5(b) Multi-hop QA0.20.40.60.81.0Temperature42444648505254(c) Overall QATeaRAG-8B (F1)Search-R1-base-7B+R (F1)TeaRAG-8B (EM)Search-R1-base-7B+R (EM)TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

27

and can occasionally lead to deviations from the retrieved evidence or extra, unnecessary steps,
thereby reducing answer accuracy and consistency.

5.6 Training and Inference Efficiency Analysis

Table 9. Training overhead of different methods. The experiments are conducted on 8 NVIDIA A100
(80G) GPUs.

Method

Overall Training Time Training Time

Inference Time Reward Time Training Steps Time/Step Memory Usage per GPU

TeaRAG-8B
Search-R1-base-7B
TeaRAG-14B
Search-R1-base-14B

681m
2,944m
752m
4,958m

85m
1,320m
115m
2,462m

376m
1,624m
417m
2,496m

220m
-
220m
-

1,688
1,005
1,513
1,005

0.40m
2.93m
0.49m
4.93m

42G
79G
61G
80G

In this section, we provide an in-depth analysis of the training and inference efficiency of TeaRAG.
For the training overhead, the statistics are summarized in the Table 9. First, TeaRAG requires less
total training time compared to Search-R1, primarily because the IP-DPO framework decouples the
training and sampling stages, thereby enhancing overall training efficiency. Furthermore, TeaRAG
achieves lower memory consumption through LoRA training and without reliance on auxiliary
models such as PPO critics.

Table 10. Inference efficiency tested on the 2WikiMultiHopQA development dataset, which consists of
12, 576 questions.

Method

Semantic Retrieval Graph Retrieval KAG+PPR Retrieval Time Generation Time Overall Time

TeaRAG-8B
Search-R1-base-7B+R
TeaRAG-14B
Search-R1-base-14B+R

270s
601s
281s
525s

282s
-
334s
-

24s
-
22s
-

578s
601s
639s
525s

482s
1,641s
495s
2,655s

1,061s
2,243s
1,136s
3,181s

Furthermore, we assess the inference efficiency of TeaRAG in comparison with Search-R1, using
the 2WikiMultiHopQA dataset as the evaluation benchmark. The inference time for each stage is
presented in Table 10. Our analysis yields three key observations:
(1) The overall inference time of TeaRAG is significantly lower than that of Search-R1. This
reduction can be attributed to the IP-DPO training method, which reduces the reasoning steps,
thereby avoiding overthinking and redundant retrieval steps. Consequently, the generation time is
substantially reduced.

(2) The introduction of graph retrieval slightly increases retrieval latency. However, more
concise triplets retrieved by graph retrieval effectively shortens the retrieved content, relieving
the generation burden on the LLM. Moreover, graph retrieval and semantic retrieval can run
in parallel, thereby shortening the total retrieval time. Nevertheless, parallel retrieval is not
implemented in our current work, as it is not the focus of our work.

(3) Both KAG construction and PPR filtering are efficient. This confirms that TeaRAG can
efficiently leverage co-occurrence relationships to produce higher–information-density retrieval
content.

5.7 Case Study

In this section, we present a case study of TeaRAG-8B and Search-R1-base-7B+R to gain a
clearer understanding of TeaRAG’s advantages. As shown in Table 11, we observe two advantages
of TeaRAG-8B. First, the content retrieved by TeaRAG-8B effectively increases information density
by introducing knowledge triplets, and it further strengthens confidence in the correct information

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

28

Zhang et al.

by leveraging the co-occurrence between chunks and triplets. In addition, TeaRAG-8B effectively
reduces the number of iterations in the reasoning path, fully leveraging available information to arrive
at the correct answer. In contrast, Search-R1-base-7B+R pulls in a large amount of document content,
which distracts the model from effectively capturing key information to obtain the correct answer,
and the model exhibits overthinking and redundant retrieval, leading to poor overall token efficiency.

Table 11. Case comparison between TeaRAG-8B and Search-R1-base-7B+R. The answer is high-
lighted in orange text.

Question: Where was the place of death of Alexander Carl Otto Westphal’s father?
Ground Truth: Kreuzlingen
TeaRAG-8B:
Step 1:
Important entity: Alexander Carl Otto Westphal
Subquery: Who was the father of Alexander Carl Otto Westphal?
<Reference> Evidence 1: Title: "Alexander Carl Otto Westphal" Text: number of significant sci-
entists, including Otto Lowenstein (1889-1965), with whom he was co-author of "Experimentelle
und klinische Studien zur Physiologie und Pathologie der Pupillenbewegungen, mit besonderer
Berücksichtigung der Schizophrenie" ...
Evidence 2: Title: "Alexander Carl Otto Westphal" Text: Alexander Carl Otto Westphal Alexander
Carl Otto Westphal (18 May 1863, Berlin – 9 January 1941, Bonn) was a German neurologist and
psychiatrist...
Evidence 3: Triplet: Alexander Carl Otto Westphal father Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal
Evidence 4: Triplet: Alexander Carl Otto Westphal son of Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal
Evidence 5: Title: "Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal" Text: ... Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal Karl
Friedrich Otto Westphal (23 March 1833, in Berlin – 27 January 1890, in Kreuzlingen) was a German
psychiatrist from Berlin. He was the son of Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal (1800–1879) and Karoline
Friederike Heine and the father of Alexander Karl Otto Westphal (1863-1941)... </Reference>
Summary: The fact Alexander Carl Otto Westphal’s father Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal died in
Kreuzlingen logically implies the answer: Kreuzlingen.
Final answer: Kreuzlingen
Search-R1-base-7B+R:
<think> I need to find the place of death of Alexander Carl Otto Westphal’s father. I’ll search for
it. </think>
<search> Alexander Carl Otto Westphal’s father </search>
<information> Doc 1 (Title: "Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal") Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal Karl
Friedrich Otto Westphal (23 March 1833, in Berlin – 27 January 1890, in Kreuzlingen) was a German
psychiatrist from Berlin...
Doc 2 (Title: "Alexander Carl Otto Westphal") Alexander Carl Otto Westphal Alexander Carl Otto
Westphal (18 May 1863, Berlin – 9 January 1941, Bonn) was a German neurologist and psychiatrist...
[3 more docs...] </information>
<think> I found out that Alexander Carl Otto Westphal’s father is Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal.
Now I need to find the place of death of his father, Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal. </think>
<search> place of death of Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal </search>
<information> Doc 1 (Title: "Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal") Carl Friedrich Otto Westphal
Karl Friedrich Otto Westphal (23 March 1833, in Berlin – 27 January 1890, in Kreuzlingen) was a
German psychiatrist from Berlin. He was the son of Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal... [4 more docs...]
</information>
<think> I found out that Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal died in Berlin. Now I need to find the place
of death of his father, Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal. </think>
<search> place of death of Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal </search>
<information> [5 docs with similar information...]</information>
<think> I found out that Otto Carl Friedrich Westphal died in Berlin. Now I can provide the answer.
</think>
<answer> Berlin </answer>

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

29

6 Conclusion

In this work, we explore a token-efficient agentic RAG framework that aims to improve the token
utilization of reasoning paths while performing agentic RAG tasks. We observe that better token
efficiency relies on increasing the information density of each retrieved content and reducing the
number of reasoning iterations. To this end, we propose TeaRAG. TeaRAG provides a fully automated
agentic pipeline, including important entity recognition, subquery generation, context retrieval,
summary generation, and final answer generation. To raise the information density per retrieval step,
we incorporate high-information-density knowledge triplets and adopt a hybrid retrieval strategy that
combines semantic and graph retrieval. We further construct a KAG and apply co-occurrence-based
PPR to preserve rich context and boost information density. To reduce the number of reasoning
iterations, we introduce IP-DPO, which uses process-aware rewards to supervise the reasoning path,
preventing overthinking and redundant retrieval. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness
of our approach and its superior token efficiency.

References
[1] Nicholas Alonso and Beren Millidge. 2024. Mixture-of-PageRanks: Replacing Long-Context with Real-Time, Sparse

GraphRAG. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.06078 (2024).

[2] Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. Self-rag: Learning to retrieve,

generate, and critique through self-reflection. In ICLR.

[3] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan,
Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. NeurIPS 33 (2020),
1877–1901.

[4] Nikhil Chandak, Shashwat Goel, and Ameya Prabhu. 2025. Incorrect Baseline Evaluations Call into Question Recent
LLM-RL Claims. https://safe-lip-9a8.notion.site/Incorrect-Baseline-Evaluations-Call-into-Question-Recent-LLM-RL-
Claims-2012f1fbf0ee8094ab8ded1953c15a37?pvs=4. Notion Blog.

[5] Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. 2023. BGE M3-Embedding:
Multi-Lingual, Multi-Functionality, Multi-Granularity Text Embeddings Through Self-Knowledge Distillation.
arXiv:2309.07597 [cs.CL]

[6] Liyi Chen, Panrong Tong, Zhongming Jin, Ying Sun, Jieping Ye, and Hui Xiong. [n. d.]. Plan-on-Graph: Self-Correcting

Adaptive Planning of Large Language Model on Knowledge Graphs. In NeurIPS.

[7] Xingyu Chen, Jiahao Xu, Tian Liang, Zhiwei He, Jianhui Pang, Dian Yu, Linfeng Song, Qiuzhi Liu, Mengfei Zhou,
Zhuosheng Zhang, et al. 2024. Do not think that much for 2+ 3=? on the overthinking of o1-like llms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.21187 (2024).

[8] Alejandro Cuadron, Dacheng Li, Wenjie Ma, Xingyao Wang, Yichuan Wang, Siyuan Zhuang, Shu Liu, Luis Gaspar
Schroeder, Tian Xia, Huanzhi Mao, et al. 2025. The danger of overthinking: Examining the reasoning-action dilemma in
agentic tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.08235 (2025).

[9] Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt, Dasha Metropolitansky,
Robert Osazuwa Ness, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From local to global: A graph rag approach to query-focused
summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130 (2024).

[10] Jinyuan Fang, Zaiqiao Meng, and Craig Macdonald. 2025. KiRAG: Knowledge-Driven Iterative Retriever for Enhancing

Retrieval-Augmented Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18397 (2025).

[11] Jiaxuan Gao, Wei Fu, Minyang Xie, Shusheng Xu, Chuyi He, Zhiyu Mei, Banghua Zhu, and Yi Wu. 2025. Beyond Ten
Turns: Unlocking Long-Horizon Agentic Search with Large-Scale Asynchronous RL. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.07976
(2025).

[12] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, Haofen Wang, and Haofen
Wang. 2023. Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997 2
(2023).

[13] Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha
Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Alex Vaughan, et al. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.21783 (2024).

[14] Zirui Guo, Lianghao Xia, Yanhua Yu, Tu Ao, and Chao Huang. 2024. LightRAG: Simple and Fast Retrieval-Augmented

Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05779 (2024).

[15] Bernal Jiménez Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Yu Gu, Michihiro Yasunaga, and Yu Su. 2024. Hipporag: Neurobiologically

inspired long-term memory for large language models. In NeurIPS.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

30

Zhang et al.

[16] Bernal Jiménez Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Weijian Qi, Sizhe Zhou, and Yu Su. 2025. From rag to memory: Non-parametric

continual learning for large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14802 (2025).

[17] Xiaoxin He, Yijun Tian, Yifei Sun, Nitesh Chawla, Thomas Laurent, Yann LeCun, Xavier Bresson, and Bryan Hooi.
2024. G-retriever: Retrieval-augmented generation for textual graph understanding and question answering. NeurIPS 37
(2024), 132876–132907.

[18] Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara, and Akiko Aizawa. 2020. Constructing A Multi-hop QA Dataset

for Comprehensive Evaluation of Reasoning Steps. In COLING. 6609–6625.

[19] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu Chen, et al.

2022. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. ICLR 1, 2 (2022), 3.

[20] Jian Hu, Jason Klein Liu, Haotian Xu, and Wei Shen. 2025. Reinforce++: An efficient rlhf algorithm with robustness to

both prompt and reward models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.03262 (2025).

[21] Hamish Ivison, Yizhong Wang, Jiacheng Liu, Zeqiu Wu, Valentina Pyatkin, Nathan Lambert, Noah A Smith, Yejin
Choi, and Hanna Hajishirzi. 2024. Unpacking dpo and ppo: Disentangling best practices for learning from preference
feedback. NeurIPS 37 (2024), 36602–36633.

[22] Aaron Jaech, Adam Kalai, Adam Lerer, Adam Richardson, Ahmed El-Kishky, Aiden Low, Alec Helyar, Aleksander
Madry, Alex Beutel, Alex Carney, et al. 2024. Openai o1 system card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.16720 (2024).
[23] Huiqiang Jiang, Qianhui Wu, Chin-Yew Lin, Yuqing Yang, and Lili Qiu. [n. d.]. LLMLingua: Compressing Prompts for

Accelerated Inference of Large Language Models. In EMNLP.

[24] Pengcheng Jiang, Lang Cao, Ruike Zhu, Minhao Jiang, Yunyi Zhang, Jimeng Sun, and Jiawei Han. 2025. RAS:
Retrieval-And-Structuring for Knowledge-Intensive LLM Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.10996 (2025).
[25] Pengcheng Jiang, Xueqiang Xu, Jiacheng Lin, Jinfeng Xiao, Zifeng Wang, Jimeng Sun, and Jiawei Han. 2025. s3: You

Don’t Need That Much Data to Train a Search Agent via RL. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.14146 (2025).

[26] Bowen Jin, Jinsung Yoon, Priyanka Kargupta, Sercan O Arik, and Jiawei Han. 2025. An Empirical Study on Reinforce-

ment Learning for Reasoning-Search Interleaved LLM Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15117 (2025).

[27] Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and Jiawei Han. 2025. Search-r1: Training llms to

reason and leverage search engines with reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09516 (2025).

[28] Jiajie Jin, Yutao Zhu, Xinyu Yang, Chenghao Zhang, and Zhicheng Dou. 2024. Flashrag: A modular toolkit for efficient

retrieval-augmented generation research. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.13576 (2024).

[29] Adam Tauman Kalai, Ofir Nachum, Santosh S Vempala, and Edwin Zhang. 2025. Why language models hallucinate.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.04664 (2025).

[30] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick SH Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau

Yih. 2020. Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering.. In EMNLP. 6769–6781.

[31] Saeed Khaki, JinJin Li, Lan Ma, Liu Yang, and Prathap Ramachandra. 2024. RS-DPO: A Hybrid Rejection Sampling and
Direct Preference Optimization Method for Alignment of Large Language Models. In Findings of NAACL. 1665–1680.
[32] Robert Kirk, Ishita Mediratta, Christoforos Nalmpantis, Jelena Luketina, Eric Hambro, Edward Grefenstette, and Roberta
Raileanu. [n. d.]. Understanding the Effects of RLHF on LLM Generalisation and Diversity. In The Twelfth International
Conference on Learning Representations.

[33] Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti, Danielle Epstein,
Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, et al. 2019. Natural questions: a benchmark for question answering research.
TACL 7 (2019), 453–466.

[34] Hanyu Lai, Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Yifan Xu, Iat Long Iong, Shuntian Yao, Aohan Zeng, Zhengxiao Du, Yuxiao Dong, and
Jie Tang. 2025. WebGLM: Towards an Efficient and Reliable Web-Enhanced Question-Answering System. ACM Trans.
Inf. Syst. 43, 5, Article 122 (July 2025), 43 pages. doi:10.1145/3729421

[35] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler,
Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp
tasks. NeurIPS 33 (2020), 9459–9474.

[36] Xiaoxi Li, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yuyao Zhang, Yujia Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Peitian Zhang, and Zhicheng Dou. 2025.

Search-o1: Agentic search-enhanced large reasoning models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.05366 (2025).

[37] Xiaopeng Li, Lixin Su, Pengyue Jia, Suqi Cheng, Junfeng Wang, Dawei Yin, and Xiangyu Zhao. 2025. Agent4Ranking:
Semantic Robust Ranking via Personalized Query Rewriting Using Multi-agent LLMs. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. (July
2025). doi:10.1145/3749099 Just Accepted.

[38] Lei Liang, Zhongpu Bo, Zhengke Gui, Zhongshu Zhu, Ling Zhong, Peilong Zhao, Mengshu Sun, Zhiqiang Zhang, Jun
Zhou, Wenguang Chen, et al. 2025. Kag: Boosting llms in professional domains via knowledge augmented generation.
In Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025. 334–343.

[39] Haoran Luo, Guanting Chen, Qika Lin, Yikai Guo, Fangzhi Xu, Zemin Kuang, Meina Song, Xiaobao Wu, Yifan Zhu,
Luu Anh Tuan, et al. 2025. Graph-R1: Towards Agentic GraphRAG Framework via End-to-end Reinforcement Learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.21892 (2025).

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

TeaRAG : A Token-Efficient Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation Framework

31

[40] Yuanjie Lyu, Zihan Niu, Zheyong Xie, Chao Zhang, Tong Xu, Yang Wang, and Enhong Chen. 2024. Retrieve-Plan-
Generation: An Iterative Planning and Answering Framework for Knowledge-Intensive LLM Generation. In EMNLP.
4683–4702.

[41] Shengjie Ma, Chengjin Xu, Xuhui Jiang, Muzhi Li, Huaren Qu, Cehao Yang, Jiaxin Mao, and Jian Guo. 2024. Think-on-
graph 2.0: Deep and faithful large language model reasoning with knowledge-guided retrieval augmented generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10805 (2024).

[42] Xinbei Ma, Yeyun Gong, Pengcheng He, Hai Zhao, and Nan Duan. 2023. Query rewriting in retrieval-augmented large

language models. In EMNLP. 5303–5315.

[43] Iain Mackie, Ivan Sekulic, Shubham Chatterjee, Jeffrey Dalton, and Fabio Crestani. 2023. GRM: generative relevance

modeling using relevance-aware sample estimation for document retrieval. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.09938 (2023).

[44] Alex Mallen, Akari Asai, Victor Zhong, Rajarshi Das, Daniel Khashabi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. When Not to
Trust Language Models: Investigating Effectiveness of Parametric and Non-Parametric Memories. In ACL. 9802–9822.
[45] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini
Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. 2022. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback.
NeurIPS 35 (2022), 27730–27744.

[46] Arka Pal, Deep Karkhanis, Samuel Dooley, Manley Roberts, Siddartha Naidu, and Colin White. 2024. Smaug: Fixing

failure modes of preference optimisation with dpo-positive. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.13228 (2024).

[47] Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Weizhe Yuan, He He, Kyunghyun Cho, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, and Jason Weston. 2024. Iterative

reasoning preference optimization. NeurIPS 37 (2024), 116617–116637.

[48] Ofir Press, Muru Zhang, Sewon Min, Ludwig Schmidt, Noah A Smith, and Mike Lewis. [n. d.]. Measuring and Narrowing

the Compositionality Gap in Language Models. In EMNLP.

[49] Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2023. Direct

preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. NeurIPS 36 (2023), 53728–53741.

[50] Bhaskarjit Sarmah, Dhagash Mehta, Benika Hall, Rohan Rao, Sunil Patel, and Stefano Pasquali. 2024. Hybridrag: Inte-
grating knowledge graphs and vector retrieval augmented generation for efficient information extraction. In Proceedings
of the 5th ACM International Conference on AI in Finance. 608–616.

[51] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. 2017. Proximal policy optimization

algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347 (2017).

[52] Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang, Mingchuan Zhang, YK Li,
Yang Wu, et al. 2024. Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.03300 (2024).

[53] Yaorui Shi, Sihang Li, Chang Wu, Zhiyuan Liu, Junfeng Fang, Hengxing Cai, An Zhang, and Xiang Wang. 2025. Search
and Refine During Think: Autonomous Retrieval-Augmented Reasoning of LLMs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.11277
(2025).

[54] Huatong Song, Jinhao Jiang, Yingqian Min, Jie Chen, Zhipeng Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Lei Fang, and Ji-Rong
Wen. 2025. R1-Searcher: Incentivizing the Search Capability in LLMs via Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.05592 (2025).

[55] Huatong Song, Jinhao Jiang, Wenqing Tian, Zhipeng Chen, Yuhuan Wu, Jiahao Zhao, Yingqian Min, Wayne Xin Zhao,
Lei Fang, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2025. R1-Searcher++: Incentivizing the Dynamic Knowledge Acquisition of LLMs via
Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.17005 (2025).

[56] Hao Sun, Zile Qiao, Jiayan Guo, Xuanbo Fan, Yingyan Hou, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, and Yan Zhang. 2025.
Zerosearch: Incentivize the search capability of llms without searching. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.04588 (2025).
[57] Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun Gong, Lionel Ni, Heung-Yeung Shum,
and Jian Guo. [n. d.]. Think-on-Graph: Deep and Responsible Reasoning of Large Language Model on Knowledge
Graph. In ICLR.

[58] Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. MuSiQue: Multihop Questions

via Single-hop Question Composition. TACL 10 (2022), 539–554.

[59] Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2023. Interleaving Retrieval with

Chain-of-Thought Reasoning for Knowledge-Intensive Multi-Step Questions. In ACL.

[60] Songjun Tu, Jiahao Lin, Xiangyu Tian, Qichao Zhang, Linjing Li, Yuqian Fu, Nan Xu, Wei He, Xiangyuan Lan, Dongmei
Jiang, et al. 2025. Enhancing LLM Reasoning with Iterative DPO: A Comprehensive Empirical Investigation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2503.12854 (2025).

[61] Prakhar Verma, Sukruta Prakash Midigeshi, Gaurav Sinha, Arno Solin, Nagarajan Natarajan, and Amit Sharma. 2024.
Plan* rag: Efficient test-time planning for retrieval augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.20753 (2024).
[62] Hongru Wang, Cheng Qian, Wanjun Zhong, Xiusi Chen, Jiahao Qiu, Shijue Huang, Bowen Jin, Mengdi Wang, Kam-
Fai Wong, and Heng Ji. 2025. Acting Less is Reasoning More! Teaching Model to Act Efficiently. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.14870 (2025).

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.

32

Zhang et al.

[63] Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen,
Yankai Lin, et al. 2024. A survey on large language model based autonomous agents. FCS 18, 6 (2024), 186345.
[64] Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Majumder, and Furu Wei.
2022. Text embeddings by weakly-supervised contrastive pre-training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.03533 (2022).
[65] Shuting Wang, Xin Yu, Mang Wang, Weipeng Chen, Yutao Zhu, and Zhicheng Dou. 2025. RichRAG: Crafting Rich

Responses for Multi-faceted Queries in Retrieval-Augmented Generation. In COLING. 11317–11333.

[66] Ziliang Wang, Xuhui Zheng, Kang An, Cijun Ouyang, Jialu Cai, Yuhang Wang, and Yichao Wu. 2025. StepSearch:
Igniting LLMs Search Ability via Step-Wise Proximal Policy Optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15107 (2025).
[67] Jinbo Wen, Cheng Su, Jiawen Kang, Jiangtian Nie, Yang Zhang, Jianhang Tang, Dusit Niyato, and Chau Yuen. 2025.
HybridRAG-based LLM Agents for Low-Carbon Optimization in Low-Altitude Economy Networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2506.15947 (2025).

[68] Wei Xiong, Jiarui Yao, Yuhui Xu, Bo Pang, Lei Wang, Doyen Sahoo, Junnan Li, Nan Jiang, Tong Zhang, Caiming
Xiong, et al. 2025. A minimalist approach to llm reasoning: from rejection sampling to reinforce. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.11343 (2025).

[69] Derong Xu, Wei Chen, Wenjun Peng, Chao Zhang, Tong Xu, Xiangyu Zhao, Xian Wu, Yefeng Zheng, Yang Wang, and
Enhong Chen. 2024. Large language models for generative information extraction: A survey. FCS 18, 6 (2024), 186357.
[70] Derong Xu, Pengyue Jia, Xiaopeng Li, Yingyi Zhang, Maolin Wang, Qidong Liu, Xiangyu Zhao, Yichao Wang, Huifeng
Guo, Ruiming Tang, et al. 2025. Align-GRAG: Reasoning-Guided Dual Alignment for Graph Retrieval-Augmented
Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.16237 (2025).

[71] Derong Xu, Tong Xu, Shiwei Wu, Jingbo Zhou, and Enhong Chen. 2022. Relation-enhanced negative sampling for
multimodal knowledge graph completion. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM international conference on multimedia.
3857–3866.

[72] Derong Xu, Ziheng Zhang, Zhenxi Lin, Xian Wu, Zhihong Zhu, Tong Xu, Xiangyu Zhao, Yefeng Zheng, and Enhong
Chen. 2024. Multi-perspective Improvement of Knowledge Graph Completion with Large Language Models. In
LREC/COLING.

[73] Fangyuan Xu, Weijia Shi, and Eunsol Choi. 2024. Recomp: Improving retrieval-augmented lms with compression and

selective augmentation. (2024).

[74] An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang,

Haoran Wei, et al. 2024. Qwen2.5 Technical Report. arXiv e-prints (2024), arXiv–2412.

[75] Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D
Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A Dataset for Diverse, Explainable Multi-hop Question Answering. In EMNLP. 2369–2380.
[76] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. React:

Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In ICLR.

[77] Chuanyue Yu, Kuo Zhao, Yuhan Li, Heng Chang, Mingjian Feng, Xiangzhe Jiang, Yufei Sun, Jia Li, Yuzhi Zhang,
Jianxin Li, et al. 2025. GraphRAG-R1: Graph Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Process-Constrained Reinforcement
Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.23581 (2025).

[78] Qiying Yu, Zheng Zhang, Ruofei Zhu, Yufeng Yuan, Xiaochen Zuo, Yu Yue, Weinan Dai, Tiantian Fan, Gaohong
Liu, Lingjun Liu, et al. 2025. Dapo: An open-source llm reinforcement learning system at scale. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.14476 (2025).

[79] Yue Yu, Wei Ping, Zihan Liu, Boxin Wang, Jiaxuan You, Chao Zhang, Mohammad Shoeybi, and Bryan Catanzaro. 2024.
Rankrag: Unifying context ranking with retrieval-augmented generation in llms. NeurIPS 37 (2024), 121156–121184.
[80] Zheng Yuan, Hongyi Yuan, Chengpeng Li, Guanting Dong, Keming Lu, Chuanqi Tan, Chang Zhou, and Jingren Zhou.
2023. Scaling Relationship on Learning Mathematical Reasoning with Large Language Models. arXiv e-prints (2023),
arXiv–2308.

[81] Zhenrui Yue, Honglei Zhuang, Aijun Bai, Kai Hui, Rolf Jagerman, Hansi Zeng, Zhen Qin, Dong Wang, Xuanhui Wang,
and Michael Bendersky. [n. d.]. Inference Scaling for Long-Context Retrieval Augmented Generation. In ICLR.
[82] Zhiyuan Zeng, Qinyuan Cheng, Zhangyue Yin, Bo Wang, Shimin Li, Yunhua Zhou, Qipeng Guo, Xuanjing Huang, and
Xipeng Qiu. 2024. Scaling of search and learning: A roadmap to reproduce o1 from reinforcement learning perspective.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.14135 (2024).

[83] Wenlin Zhang, Xiangyang Li, Kuicai Dong, Yichao Wang, Pengyue Jia, Xiaopeng Li, Yingyi Zhang, Derong Xu,
Zhaocheng Du, Huifeng Guo, et al. 2025. Process vs. Outcome Reward: Which is Better for Agentic RAG Reinforcement
Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.14069 (2025).

[84] Xiangrong Zhu, Yuexiang Xie, Yi Liu, Yaliang Li, and Wei Hu. 2025. Knowledge Graph-Guided Retrieval Augmented
Generation. In NAACL, Luis Chiruzzo, Alan Ritter, and Lu Wang (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics,
Albuquerque, New Mexico, 8912–8924.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.