Answering Students’ Questions on Course Forums
Using Multiple Chain-of-Thought Reasoning and
Finetuning RAG-Enabled LLM

Neo Wang1 and Sonit Singh1
1School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
Email: sonit.singh@unsw.edu.au

5
2
0
2

v
o
N
3
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
1
3
8
9
0
.
1
1
5
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract—The course forums are increasingly significant and
play vital role in facilitating student discussions and answering
their questions related to the course. It provides a platform
for students to post their questions related to the content and
admin issues related to the course. However, there are several
challenges due to the increase in the number of students enrolled
in the course. The primary challenge is that students’ queries
cannot be responded immediately and the instructors have to
face lots of repetitive questions. To mitigate these issues, we
propose a question answering system based on large language
model with retrieval augmented generation (RAG) method. This
work focuses on designing a question answering system with open
source Large Language Model (LLM) and fine-tuning it on the
relevant course dataset. To further improve the performance, we
use a local knowledge base and applied RAG method to retrieve
relevant documents relevant to students’ queries, where the local
knowledge base contains all the course content. To mitigate the
hallucination of LLMs, We also integrate it with multi chain-
of-thought reasoning to overcome the challenge of hallucination
in LLMs. In this work, we experiment fine-tuned LLM with
RAG method on the HotpotQA dataset. The experimental results
demonstrate that the fine-tuned LLM with RAG method has a
strong performance on question answering task.

Index Terms—Online Course forum, Retrieval-Augmented
Generation, Chain-of-thought reasoning, Large Language Model

I. INTRODUCTION

In large university courses, online student forums (such
as Moodle and Ed forum) play a crucial role in facilitat-
ing student discussions and resolving academic queries. In
the beginning, it is possible for course staff to respond to
queries in a timely manner. However, with a high volume of
posts, many questions become repetitive, leading to delays
in response times and an increased burden on instructors.
Students often struggle to find existing answers, and teaching
staff must repeatedly address similar concerns. Therefore, a
related question recommendation system can help mitigate
these challenges by efficiently suggesting previously answered
relevant questions, improving student learning experiences,
and reducing instructor workload.

In this paper, we developed a question answering system
based on large language model (LLM) and retrieval augmented
generation (RAG), and also fine-tuned on the relevant course
dataset. The system contributes to the development of AI
applications in the education domain. By introducing a related
question answering system, it promotes a reduction in course

staff workload. Teaching staff could focus on more complex
or new questions rather than answering repetitive or simple
questions. In addition, the developed system could provide an
immediate response to student queries anytime (available 24/7)
and reduce the need to find similar posts. The proposed system
could also improve self-learning in students as they can always
find help related to the course whenever they need. Addition-
ally, leveraging LLMs for related question recommendation
system could increase search precision, contributing to AI-
driven educational support and broader applications such as
knowledge-sharing platforms.

This research aims to improve the efficiency of online
course forums by developing a question-answering system
based on Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), which
leverages an external knowledge base to enhance the ability
of LLM to generate more accurate and contextually relevant
responses. Our system could identify whether a newly posted
student question has already been answered in the course
forum. If a similar question exists, the system will gener-
ate an answer based on the corresponding previous answer.
Additionally, multiple chain-of-thoughts reasoning would be
implemented to reduce the hallucination of LLM generator.

The specific objectives of this research are to:
1) To design and implement RAG-based system which
could help the LLM generator produce a better answer
2) To incorporate multiple chain-of-thought (COT) reason-
ing to improve the performance of student question
answering system

This paper is structured as follows: The relevant background
and the related work of question answering system are intro-
duced in section II. In section III, we describe our approach
to mitigate the current limitation. The details of experiment
are provided in sectionIV with results analysis and discussion
in sectionV. Finally, in section VI, we summarise the benefits
and limitations of our proposed question answering system,
including potential future directions that could further improve
this work.

II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK

In this section, we lay the foundation of building blocks
needed to understand the literature and also based on which
our proposed methodology is based on. We also provide

 
 
 
 
 
 
an overview of relevant work related to question answering
system.

A. Recent advancements in Natural Language Processing

Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a sub-field of Artifi-
cial Intelligence (AI) that aims to develop computational algo-
rithms or tools to analyse or synthesise natural language and
speech. NLP spans two main tasks, namely, natural language
understanding (NLU) and natural language generation (NLG).
In general, the development of NLP can be divided into three
generations. Early methods were rule-based, which are mostly
based on rules made by humans to finish several tasks [14].
For example, if the input contains ’Hello’, the rules told model
to respond with ’Hi’. This method could perform well on
specific tasks if the rules are designed well. However, ruled-
based methods require high accuracy of rules made manually
and it would be expensive. Additionally, even if a model with
well-designed rules performs performs good on a specific task,
it is difficult to generalise well on other similar tasks. This
means we need to design rules from scratch for a new tasks.
To address the generalisation issue of rule-based model, the
statistical models were introduced, such as N-gram [15]. In
the stage, features could be utilised to achieve different tasks.
A key task in NLP is to convert human natural language
into a representation that can be process by computer. One hot
vector [16], for example, was a popular method to represent
words. It is a simple but effective method to store a word in
computer. But, this method have limitations in terms of high
dimensionality and also do not capture context. Every new
word means we need to create a new one hot vector for it,
and the size of each vector equals to the size of vocabulary.
In addition, one hot vector cannot extract specific features of
entities.

Word2Vec [17] utilises features to convert word to vector,
and the size of vector just depends on the number of features
rather than the whole vocabulary. Word2Vec learns dense
representations of words, one for centre word, another for
context words. Skip-gram is using centre word to predict the
context word within finite context window and continuous
bag of word (CBOW) is using context word to predict the
centre word. GloVe [18] constructs the vector based on co-
occurrence. It aims to reduce the dimensionality of word
representation and improved the efficiency of NLP models.

With the development of deep learning, several neural
networks, such as recurrent neural network (RNN) and Long
Short-term Memory (LSTM), perform well on many NLP
tasks. These models promote the application of neural network
in NLP domain. But the performance is still limited by the
capability of models. Therefor, self-attention mechanism is
introduced.

Transformer model [7] proposed the idea of self-attention.
This mechanism significantly improves results on many NLP
tasks. It simulates the human attention in the structure to
leverage the previous networks. The Bidirectional Encoder
Representations from Transformers (BERT) model [20] pro-
posed a novel structure based on the pre-training of trans-

former. Concretely,
the text representations are pre-trained
bi-directionally rather than single directional. This method
creates various state-of-the-art models on numerous NLP tasks
including Question-answering, machine-translation.

Building upon the Transformer architecture [7], recent years
have witnessed significant advancements in NLP, driven by
the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) [6]. These
models, often consisting of billions of parameters, are trained
on massive corpora and exhibit impressive capabilities in tasks
such as question answering, summarisation, and language
generation. Notably, LLMs like OpenAI’s GPT series are
based on a decoder-only Transformer architecture [19].

Despite their powerful generative abilities, LLMs are limited
by the fixed knowledge encoded during pre-training. This has
led to the development of hybrid frameworks that combine
LLMs with external knowledge sources to enhance their
performance and factual accuracy. One prominent approach is
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [8], which integrates
information retrieval mechanisms into the generation process
to dynamically access relevant documents at inference time.
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) introduces an exter-
nal retrieval mechanism to LLMs. This strategy aids LLMs
to avoid hallucination and improve the performance of LLMs
on generating precise content [8]. RAG systems consist of
three main components: retriever, generator and augmentation
methods. With the release of LLMs such as ChatGPT, RAG
systems can be leveraged with LLMs to improve its results,
and RAG system performs well on reducing hallucination of
LLMs. On other hand, the LLMs with RAG could easily be
updated without re-train from scratch. This means that it could
be economical for its applications. Moreover, the structure of
RAG indicates that it can be easily deployed locally. So there
would be no concern about privacy. Figure 1 shows the RAG
structure.

Fig. 1. Structure of RAG system

Recently, supervised fine-tuning (SFT) [26] is a method
that adapt pre-train models on specific tasks through training
them on labelled dataset. It enables the model to align with
task-specific objectives, such as classification or summarisa-
tion, while retaining general language understanding. During
the SFT process, we can fine-tune all parameters or partial
parameters, offering a trade-off between performance and
computational efficiency.

B. Related Work

Several studies explored the application of LLMs in ed-
ucation domain [5]. These studies focus on the Chatbot in
supporting students self-learning, yet few evaluated their meth-
ods on well-designed metrics. In particular, these papers only
validate their result on a few samples. RAGBench addresses
this problem by proposing the TRACe evaluation framework
[1]. The study combines twelve different datasets to evaluate
RAG systems and also measures Utilisation, Relevance, Ad-
herence, and Completeness to analyse system performance.
Although the study only evaluated GTPs models which is
less economical than open-source model, it provided a novel
framework for evaluation the performance of RAG system.

In RetLLM [10], authors proposed a retrieval-augmented
LLM for question answering on students discussion forums.
It demonstrated the effectiveness of the appropriate prompt on
Question-Answering system of education domain. Moreover,
prompts are designed to require that LLMs do not directly
generate solutions, such as code or answer for assignment.
Instead, RetLLM-E would output hints and suitable guides for
students to solve their questions. The authors also combine
human evaluation and ROUGE & BERTScore to evaluate
the model in multiple dimensions. Also, authors compared
LLM with retrieval and LLM without retrieval
to justify
the advantages of RAG method. Preconditions are applied in
RetLLM-E to mitigate hallucination. However, RetLLM-E is
still limited by the quality of data source. Concretely, it might
produce wrong response when there is not related documents
retrieved. In addition, it performs differently on different type
of questions. Although, the paper proposed a student-oriented
question answering system through producing hints rather than
direct answers for students for some specific question types,
it lacks method to automatically evaluate the quality of hints.
In another study [2], authors proposed RAG model on task-
specific domain through combining pre-trained seq2seq model
and pre-trained retriever. The RAG model outperforms state-
of-the-art models on open domain question-answering tasks
and approaches similar performance on other tasks such as
question generation and fact verification. Moreover, it avoided
several unnecessary costs including training from scratch on a
new dataset, dependency on specific documents for extractive
or abstractive tasks. The proposed model not only utilises
the documents retrieved to improve the reliability, but also
generates reliable responses with parametric memory when the
corresponding resources are insufficient. The paper provides a
retrieval augmented method to mitigate the hallucination. It
not only highlights the reduction on hallucination, but also
avoid the cost on re-training model when the dataset have to
be updated. However, the study has limitations in terms of
the quality of documents as inferior resources may cause bias,
misleading or abuse content.

Li et al. [9] found the main challenges on deploying AI on
education domain are hallucination and difficulties on updating
LLMs. Thus, they introduce RAG method to improve this
situation. Authors identified the high API cost if using paid

LLMs such as ChatGPT and highlighted the need to explore
more affordable options for applying LLMs in the education
domain. Sharma et al. [4] proposed a novel RAG framework
for domain-specific question answering task. They utilised
users’ activities, such as log clicks to improve the performance
of retriever. Also, they define a relevancy metric to rank the
query-document during training retriever model. In terms of
generator, LLM with few-shot prompt are introduced to their
framework. Authors use not only the grounded sources to
fine-tune the LLM, but also add some negative documents
(moderately dis-similar with others) to strengthen the recall
and robustness of generator. In addition, query augmentation
are implemented in the framework to mitigate the ambiguous
expression. Last but not least, they utilise a Named Entity
Removal Module to ensure the privacy of users. The proposed
method provided improvement on LLM generator to augment
the question answering system, potentially mitigating the
hallucination.

In [11], the authors proposed an AI Discussion Assistant
instructors’ work and analysed
(AIDA) system to support
the significance of AIDA in education domain. The study
addresses the fact that AI tools cannot directly replace the
real instructors in education domain. Thus, they use AIDA
to support instructors in answers queries of student in the
online forum. The AIDA offers several options including
directly generating answer, retrieve previous related materials,
generating response with context retrieved. The instructors
the appropriate work mode to generate final
could select
answer. In addition, they implemented an instructor-in-the-
loop method to help LLM generate a better answer. Concretely,
there might be some deletions or additions based on the
generation of LLM. This strategy significantly improves the
quality of final answers. Also, the system is evaluated via the
number of modifications, with lower modifications result in
greater accuracy. However, there are still limitations of the
proposed AIDA system as it does not support multimodal
inputs and the relevant context retrieved is manually operated
by instructor, which could be automated.

Boros et al. [12] proposed a novel recipe, Sherlock, for
question-answering task with affordable LLM. The authors
firstly select several open-source LLMs as their base model
including instruct model and non-instruct model. Then they
perform supervised fine-tuning on two different datasets, and
this yields two results. The two models from the previous
step are merged with a new different model. Then a Direct
Preference Optimisation is implemented on both of them. Fi-
nally, they developed two different model: one with RAG and
another without RAG. Those strategies notably increase the
performance of Sherlock. In addition, the final step (ablation
test) demonstrates the advantages of RAG method. Sherlock
achieves a great result on test set with limited parameter
size. This means Sherlock successfully saves expenditure on
LLM API and computational resources. However, there are
limitations in their study, including model can’t correct n-
grams for RAG part and experiments on specific base models.
Miladi et al. [13] focused on evaluating the effectiveness of

LLM with RAG. The authors compared control group (CG)
without support from AI tools and experimental group (EG)
with support from AI tools. Concretely, the evaluation was
finished via pre-test, post-test and System Usability Scale
(SUS) questionnaire. The result demonstrated the ability of
AI tools on supporting students on acquiring new knowledge
the
and the usability of a conversational agent. However,
experiment is limited due to the small group size. Additionally,
there is no ablation test to prove the effect of the RAG method.
Yoran et al. [21] proposed a novel method - MultiChain
Reasoning (MCR) which could meta-reason through multi-
ple chains of thoughts. Firstly, the authors demonstrated the
current limitations of chain-of-thought reasoning method on
question answering. The result shows though the single chain-
of-thought could provide useful information, it might generate
wrong answer due to the incorrect direction of thoughts. In
addition, this approach would take advantage of the evidence
from the multiple chains to generate the final answer instead
of directly aggregating them together. The authors mainly
experiment this method with implicit reasoning and explicit
reasoning. It turns out that their model outperforms all related
previous models. Additionally, the final result is improved
through combining their model with another model - self-
consistency (SC) [22] from others’ study. The study did not
apply any supervised fine-tuning method to improve the per-
formance of the model. Also, the evaluation of the explanation
quality of their model was done manually which would be
inefficient and costly.

III. METHODOLOGY

According to the literature review in the previous section,
we found that various studies have explored the integration of
LLM into education. However, the majority of them are simply
adopting LLM API to build a question answering system.
Although, this approach takes advantage of the pre-trained
knowledge of the LLM, it does not take into account the
specific course related knowledge, which is highly valuable
and unique to particular course in a particular university.
Moreover, using paid LLM APIs such as ChatGPT could
be very expensive when thousands of students were using
the forum and every call to the API costs. Therefore, it is
important to explore alternatives, such as open-source LLMs
to apply them in the education settings. Also, we observe that
most of the existing work in literature suffer from hallucina-
tion problem. Finally, existing work on Question-Answering
systems in education settings focused on providing the final
answer, which can sometimes be deteriorating from students’
learning perspective. To overcome all the above highlighted
limitations, we propose a Question-Answering system based
on open-source LLM and making use of local course content
using RAG method and fine-tuning it so that the system can
learn content specific to the course content. Moreover,
to
overcome the limitation of not giving directly the final answer,
we integrated multiple chain-of-thought reasoning approach.
The proposed system not only is cost-effective, can provide
step by step response to students’ question, but also overcomes

the problem of hallucination by enhancing the capability of the
LLM generator.

Our proposed finetuned RAG-enabled LLM using mul-
tiple chain-of-thought reasoning architecture for answering
students’ questions on course forums is shown in Figure 2.
We propose a method to answer students’ questions on course
forum based on the past offerings of the course data. Our
question answering system constructs a local knowledge base
for course based on its current content and past questions and
answers. When students post their questions on forum, the
system would search the top-k similar documents or questions
based on the input queries. Then the retrieved documents will
be passed into the first LLM to generate multi-chains. The re-
sults of multi-chains are combined with the original questions
and the designed prompt. The results of the multi chain-of-
thought, question and the prompt, are given as the input to
the second LLM (generator) and the generator will leveraging
the evidence to the final answer. In summary, first the LLM
is prompted to produced multiple chain-of-thought reasoning
intermediate processes based on retrieved documents and the
original question. After this, the reasoning steps are collected
and passed to the LLM. Finally, after receiving all intermediate
processes, the LLM would utilise them as evidence to generate
the final answer. We illustrate the effectiveness of the multiple
chain-of-thought (COT) reasoning and the entire process in
Figure 3. The question (see Figure 3) seeks the information
about which band a member of Mother Love Bone belonged to
before his death, just prior to the release of “Apple”. To solve
this query, three documents are returned by the retriever. The
first document told the information about band member, the
second told the previous band of this member, and the third
document told the data of the release of “Apple”. Then the
first LLM produced three chains to infer the final answer. The
first COT generated an incorrect answer, but the remaining
two both generated the correct result. Finally, the second LLM
generator produced the correct answer based on the previous
results. From this simplified example, we could observe that
only one chain-of-thought reasoning might lead to a wrong
result. But multiple chain-of-thought reasoning could avoid
this situation as much as possible. In the following sections,
we provide more details about various blocks of our proposed
architecture.

A. Retriever

Each document in our dataset is converted into embed-
ding vector space. Similarly, the student questions are also
expressed as vector representations. Then the retriever would
search the top-k documents which have similar semantics to
input queries through search function provided by FAISS [23]
library. Then the retriever would pass the retrieved documents
to generator as context.

B. Generator

We adopted Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct [24] as our base model

due to its excellent performance on several tasks.

Fig. 2. Multi-chains Reasoning with RAG VS Traditional Question-answering System

a) Zero-Shot LLM generator with RAG: We design a
simple prompt to ask LLM generate answer according to the
retrieved documents. In our experiments, we found that a long
complex prompt might negatively impact the LLM to generate
the correct answer. The retrieved documents are too long for
LLM to understand the whole context. Therefore, the prompt
is designed simply to reduce the complexity of context.

b) Finetuned LLM generator with RAG: To improve the
performance, we implemented LoRA method to finetune the
LLM generator. The loss of prompt parts is set as a small
negative constant, so the model could only learn the response
part.

C. Embedding model

We used all-MiniLM-L6-V2 as an embedding model. It
is a sentence embedding transformer-based model, and can
map input sentences 384 dimensional dense vector space. The
embedding model is implemented to semantically search the
related documents.

D. Dataset

The HotpotQA dataset mainly consists of questions, answers
and a set of documents for retrieval. The HotpotQA dataset
[3] is a large-scale, comprehensive dataset designed for multi-
hop question answering that requires complex reasoning over
multiple retrieved documents. The documents used for the
retrieval component in our system are derived from Wikipedia
articles, consistent with the original dataset setup.

According to the analysis of previous study [3], there are
more than 20 different types of questions in the HotpotQA
dataset. To simplify the question classes, we use the corre-
sponding answer types to redefine the question classes. The
distribution of various question types in the HotpotQA dataset
is given in Table I. The distribution of samples across the

TABLE I
QUESTIONS IN HOTPOTQA

Question Type

Percentage

Person
Group / Org
Location
Date
Number
Artwork
Yes/No
Adjective
Event
Other proper noun
Common noun

30%
13%
10%
9%
8%
8%
6%
4%
1%
6%
5%

TABLE II
HOTPOTQA DATASET STATISTICS

Subset

#Samples

Train
Valid
Test

1,880
424
390

training, validation, and test subsets of the HotpotQA dataset
is summarised in Table II.

E. Experimental Setting

We implemented our proposed architecture in Python pro-
gramming language using PyTorch deep learning framework.
Experiments were conducted on a GPU cluster to accelerate
computing. Various hyperparameters settings are summarised
in Table III. There were a total of 1,805,760,512 parameters,
with 2,293,760 trainable parameters. By implementing LoRA
method, we only train the 0.127% parameters to improve the
efficiency during fine-tuning.

Fig. 3. Example of Multi-chains Reasoning.

TABLE III
PARAMETER SETTING

Parameter

LoRA rank
LoRA alpha
LoRA dropout
Learning rate
Training epochs
Training batch size
Evaluation batch size
Gradient accumulation steps

Value

8
16
0.05
2e-9
3
2
2
4

F. Evaluation Metrics

Following previous studies on question-answering systems,
F1 score is primarily used to evaluate our model on this
dataset, complemented by BLEU for fluency/overlap and Se-
mantic Similarity for meaning preservation.

a) F1-score: F1 score is a metric used to evaluate the
overall accuracy of a model by considering both precision
(P ) and recall (R) through their harmonic mean. In our
experiments, we use the macro-average F1 score to assess our
question-answering system’s performance across all instances.

The formula for the F1 score is:

F 1 = 2 ·

P · R
P + R

,

Where Precision and Recall are defined as:

P =

True Positives
True Positives + False Positives

,

R =

True Positives
True Positives + False Negatives

.

The macro-average F1 score is calculated by first computing
the F1-score for each QA pair and then taking the average
across all pairs.

b) BLEU: Bilingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU)
score is an algorithm primarily designed for machine trans-
lation (MT) quality assessment but is frequently adopted for
text generation tasks like Question Answering to measure the
similarity between the model’s generated text and a set of
reference texts.

BLEU relies on calculating the proportion of matching n-
grams (typically up to N = 4) between the candidate and
reference texts, applying a Brevity Penalty (BP) to penalise
overly short outputs.

The overall BLEU score is calculated as:

BLEU = BP · exp

(cid:33)

wn log Pn

,

(4)

(cid:32) N
(cid:88)

n=1

Where Pn is the modified n-gram precision, wn are the
weights for each n-gram order, and BP is the Brevity Penalty,
which severely penalises candidates shorter than the reference
texts:

BP =

(cid:40)
1
exp (1 − r/c)

if c > r
if c ≤ r

,

(5)

(1)

(2)

(3)

where c is the length of the candidate sentence and r is the
effective reference length that is closest to c.

c) Semantic Similarity: Semantic Similarity evaluates
how close two text segments (the model’s generated answer
and the ground-truth answer) are in meaning, rather than just
word overlap. This metric is crucial for capturing paraphrases
and meaning equivalence that lexical metrics might miss.

TABLE IV
RESULT OF ABLATION STUDY FOR RAG APPROACH

Model

Benchmark of HotpotQA [3]
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct without RAG
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct with RAG
Finetuned Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct without RAG
Finetuned Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct with RAG

F1

34.4
19.0
26.8
59.6
62.2

Semantic Similarity is typically computed using Sentence
Embeddings derived from powerful Pre-trained Language
Models (PLMs) such as Sentence-BERT (SBERT). The pro-
cess involves generating embedding vectors (A and B) for the
answers and calculating the Cosine Similarity between them.
The formula for Cosine Similarity between two n-

dimensional vectors A and B is:

sim(A, B) =

A · B
∥A∥∥B∥

=

(cid:80)n

i=1 AiBi
(cid:112)(cid:80)n

(cid:112)(cid:80)n

i=1 A2
i

i=1 B2
i

.

(6)

A higher cosine similarity value (closer to 1) indicates
greater semantic alignment between the generated and refer-
ence answers.

IV. RESULTS

In this section, we provide experimental results based on

the evaluation metrics on the HotpotQA dataset.

A. Retrieval Augmented Generation

To highlight the effectiveness of RAG method, an ablation
study was conducted. The results reported in the original study
on HotpotQA dataset [3] was considered as a baseline. The
experimented results, as shown in Table IV indicate that there
is a significant increase on F1 score for Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
with RAG method. We further extended our experiments by
finetuning the Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct model with and without
RAG. The results as given in Table IV demonstrate significant
improvement in a finetuned model with RAG.

B. Multiple Chain-of-thought reasoning

In terms of multiple chain-of-thought reasoning, we com-
pared the performance of multiple chain-of-thoughts reasoning
for different chains.

TABLE V
RESULT OF MULTIPLE CHAIN-OF-THOUGHTS REASONING

Models

F1

BLEU

Semantic Similarity

MCR(1 chain)
MCR(2 chain)
MCR(3 chain)
MCR(4 chain)

30.7
32.0
28.5
27.5

12.0
12.8
10.7
10.8

64.6
66.6
66.3
65.4

To align with the previous work, we use the same retriever
(FAISS) and generator (Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct). When the
number of chains is set as 2, our baseline model has achieved
the best performance. Compared with the result of Llama-3.2-
3B-Instruct with RAG, we can observe a significant increase in

F1 score. This demonstrates that the multiple chain-of-thought
reasoning enhance our system to generate a better answer to
question.

V. DISCUSSION

Large Language Models (LLMs) have the potential
to
transform how we support students in their learning in a
university settings. Our results demonstrated that fine-tuning
RAG-enabled LLM can learn course specific content and can
answer students’ questions on course forums more effectively
compared to without fine-tuning and without using any course-
related database. Furthermore, our experiments demonstrated
the need to have multiple chain-of-thought reasoning so that
the developed system can answer students’ queries by giving
hints in multiple turns, without directly providing answer,
which will support students’ learning.

As given the results section, we found that

there is a
significant improvement in results when we use course content
and previous questions accompanied with their answers from
past course offerings as a local knowledge base. Having a
local knowledge base not only provide more relevant content
but also provide more control in terms of answers given to
students. Although pretrained LLMs can respond to students’
queries but we found that the answers given by LLM to
students’ questions are very generic and do not reflect the
depth and scope of the course content taught at a particular
institution. Using the RAG approach for retrieving relevant
document from a local knowledge base helps in providing
improved answers. As given in results Table IV, we can see
a significant increase on F1 score for Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
with RAG method. Second, although existing studies showed
that LLMs can answer students’ questions but we found that
providing direct answer is not good from students’ learning
perspective. It would be more effective to provide step-by-
step reasoning so that students can understand how we reach
to the final answer. Moreover, it is important to link various
evidences to reach out to the final answer. According to the
results of multi chain-of-thought reasoning, (see Table V), we
observed that it is not always beneficial to simply increase
the number of chains. We speculate that the reason why the
model perform best when the number of chains is 2 is more
chains might produce more incorrect content. We observe that
single chain might produce the incorrect answer. Hence, it is
of importance to decide the number of chains. If we increase
the number of chains, there would be a drop in their overall
performance. Consequently, directly increasing the quantity is
not always useful. Otherwise, this not only increases the cost
of multiple COT reasoning, but also might decrease the overall
performance. Therefore, deciding an appropriate setting for the
number of chains is crucial to improve the multiple chain-of-
thought reasoning on question-answering system. Based on our
ablation study, we found that having two chains provide best
results, demonstrating that more that two chains significantly
increase the complexity of reasoning.

[9] Z. Li, Z. Wang, W. Wang, K. Hung, and H. Xie, “Retrieval-Augmented
Generation for Educational Application: A Systematic Survey,” Com-
puters and Education: Artificial Intelligence, vol. 8, pp. 100417, Jun.
2025.

[10] C. Mitra, M. Miroyan, R. Jain, V. Kumud, and G. Ranade, “RetLLM-E:
Retrieval-Prompt Strategy for Question-Answering on Student Discus-
sion Forums,” Proc. of the AAAI Conf. on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 38,
no. 21, pp. 23215–23223, Mar. 2024.

[11] S. Qiao, P. Denny, and N. Giacaman, “Oversight in Action: Experiences
with Instructor-Moderated LLM Responses in an Online Discussion
Forum,” arXiv:2412.09048, Dec. 2024.

[12] T. Boros, R. Chivereanu, S. Dumitrescu, and O. Purcaru, “Fine-Tuning
and Retrieval Augmented Generation for Question Answering Using
Affordable Large Language Models,” in Proc. of the Third Ukrainian
Natural Language Processing Workshop (UNLP) @ LREC-COLING
2024, Torino, Italia, May 2024, pp. 75–82.

[13] F. Miladi, V. Psych´e, A. Diattara, N. El Mawas, and D. Lemire, “Evaluat-
ing a GPT-4 and Retrieval-Augmented Generation-Based Conversational
to Enhance Learning Experience in a MOOC:,” in Proc. of
Agent
the 17th International Conf. on Computer Supported Education, Porto,
Portugal, 2025, pp. 347–354.

[14] M. Mnasri, “Recent Advances in Conversational NLP : Towards the

Standardization of Chatbot Building,” arXiv:1903.09025, Mar. 2019.

[15] W. B. Cavnar and others, “N-gram-based text categorization,” in Proc. of
SDAIR-94, 3rd annual symposium on document analysis and information
retrieval, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 1994, pp. 14.

[16] D. Karani, “Introduction to word embedding and word2vec,” Towards

Data Science, vol. 1, 2018.

[17] K. W. Church, “Word2Vec,” Natural Language Engineering, vol. 23, no.

1, pp. 155–162, 2017.

[18] J. Pennington, R. Socher, and C. D. Manning, “Glove: Global vectors for
word representation,” in Proc. of the 2014 Conf. on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2014, pp. 1532–1543.
[19] A. Radford, K. Narasimhan, T. Salimans, I. Sutskever, and others,
“Improving language understanding by generative pre-training,” San
Francisco, CA, USA, 2018.

[20] J. Devlin, M.-W. Chang, K. Lee, and K. Toutanova, “BERT: Pre-Training
of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding,” in
Proc. of the 2019 Conf. of the North American Chapter of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), Minneapolis, Minnesota, Jun. 2019,
pp. 4171–4186.

[21] O. Yoran, T. Wolfson, B. Bogin, U. Katz, and D. Deutch, “Answering
Questions by Meta-Reasoning over Multiple Chains of Thought,” in
Proc. of the 2023 Conf. on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, Singapore, Dec. 2023, pp. 5942–5966.

[22] X. Wang, J. Wei, D. Schuurmans, Q. Le, E. Chi, S. Narang, A.
Chowdhery, and D. Zhou, “Self-consistency improves chain of thought
reasoning in language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11171, 2022.
[23] M. Douze, A. Guzhva, C. Deng, J. Johnson, and G. Szilvasy, “The Faiss

Library,” arXiv:2401.08281, Feb. 2025.

[24] Meta LLaMA Team, “Introducing Meta Llama 3: The most capable
openly available LLM to date.” [Online]. Available: https://ai.meta.com/
blog/meta-llama-3/, 2024.

[25] S. Sharma, D. S. Yoon, F. Dernoncourt, D. Sultania, and K. Bagga,
“Retrieval Augmented Generation for Domain-Specific Question An-
swering,” [Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14760, 2024.

[26] A. Pareja, N.S. Nayak, H. Wang, K. Killamsetty, S. Sudalairaj, W. Zhao,
S. Han, A. Bhandwaldar, G. Xu, K. Xu, L. Han, L. Inglis, and A.
Srivastava, “Unveiling the Secret Recipe: A Guide for Supervised Fine-
Tuning Small LLMs”, [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.
13337, 2024.

VI. CONCLUSION
In this work, we proposed a novel architecture combining
finetuned LLM with RAG knowledge and chain-of-thought
reasoning to answer students’ questions on the discussion
forums. The experiments on a public question answering
dataset, HotPotQA, showed that RAG knowledge, when com-
bined with finetuned LLM, is effective in providing better
answering to students’ question on course discussion forums.
The multiple chain-of-thought reasoning also enhances the
quality of generated responses when the number of chains is
correctly set.

In our future work, we aim to further improve the proposed
system by focusing on multimodal course content as we
found that most course content is not just text-based. Thus,
multimodal retriever would be considered to improve our
question answering system. Furthermore, we could improve
the effectiveness of retriever as the correctness of the final
answer is highly dependent on the quality of retrieved docu-
ments from the local knowledge base using the RAG approach.
Finally, there are many novel methods such as Reinforcement
Learning with Human Feedback (RHLF) that have potential
to strengthen our proposed framework by bringing human-in-
the-loop. We believe that having automated students’ question
answering system for courses with human oversight have
huge potential to support students’ learning and taking away
workload from instructors.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This research was supported by Katana, the high perfor-
mance computing facility at the University of New South
Wales. The authors also acknowledge the financial support
provided by the School of Computer Science and Engineering
for API and cloud services used in the development of the
question answering system.

REFERENCES

[1] R. Friel, M. Belyi, and A. Sanyal, “Ragbench: Explainable bench-
retrieval-augmented generation systems,” arXiv preprint

mark for
arXiv:2407.11005, 2024.

[2] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V. Karpukhin, N. Goyal, H.
K¨uttler, M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih, T. Rockt¨aschel, and others, “Retrieval-
augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks,” Advances in
neural information processing systems, vol. 33, pp. 9459–9474, 2020.
[3] Z. Yang, P. Qi, S. Zhang, Y. Bengio, W. W. Cohen, R. Salakhutdinov, and
C. D. Manning, “HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop
question answering,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.09600, 2018.

[4] A. Nandy, S. Sharma, S. Maddhashiya, K. Sachdeva, P. Goyal, and N.
Ganguly, “Question answering over electronic devices: A new bench-
mark dataset and a multi-task learning based QA framework,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2109.05897, 2021.

[5] A. T. Neumann, Y. Yin, S. Sowe, S. Decker, and M. Jarke, “An
llm-driven chatbot in higher education for databases and information
systems,” IEEE Transactions on Education, 2024.

[6] M. A. K. Raiaan, M. S. H. Mukta, K. Fatema, N. M. Fahad, S. Sakib,
M. M. J. Mim, J. Ahmad, M. E. Ali, and S. Azam, “A review on large
language models: Architectures, applications, taxonomies, open issues
and challenges,” IEEE access, vol. 12, pp. 26839–26874, 2024.

[7] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez,
Ł. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,” Advances in
neural information processing systems, vol. 30, 2017.

[8] Y. Gao, Y. Xiong, X. Gao, K. Jia, J. Pan, Y. Bi, Y. Dai, J. Sun, H.
Wang, and H. Wang, “Retrieval-augmented generation for large language
models: A survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997, vol. 2, no. 1, 2023.