Liam Gillick (born 1964) is an English conceptual artist who lives in New York City. He is often associated with the artists included in the 1996 exhibition Traffic, which first introduced the term Relational Art . Liam Gillick graduated from Goldsmiths College in 1987 with a degree in fine art. In 1989 he mounted his first solo gallery exhibition, 84 Diagrams, through Karsten Schubert in London. Gillick has exhibited in galleries and institutions in Europe and the United States, many of which have been collaborative projects with other artists, architects, designers and writers. In 1991, together with art collector, and co-publisher of Art Monthly, Jack Wendler, Gillick founded the limited editions and publishing company G-W Press. The company produced limited editions by artists including Jeremy Deller and Anya Gallaccio. In the early 1990s Gillick was a member of the band Soho and is credited with providing samples during their live performances. Together with Damien Hirst , Sarah Lucas, Angela Bulloch and Henry Bond, he was "the earliest of the YBAs"—the Young British Artists who dominated British art during the 1990s. In 2002, Gillick was selected to produce artworks for the canopy, the glass facade, the kiosks, the entrance ikon, and the vitrines, of the then-recently completed Home Office building, a United Kingdom government department, at Marsham Street, London. In 2002, Gillick was nominated for the annual British Turner Prize. In the Winter 2006 edition of October (No. 115) Gillick's response to Claire Bishop's October article "Antagonism and Relational Aesthetics," was published as "Contingent Factors: A Response to Claire Bishop's 'Antagonism and Relational Aesthetics'." Gillick has also contributed written articles to fine art journals Frieze and Artforum. In 2008, Gillick was short-listed for the Vincent Award of the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam. In 2009, Gillick represented Germany in the Giardini Pavilions of the Venice Biennale. On 1 October 2010, in an open letter to the British Government's culture secretary Jeremy Hunt—co-signed by a further 27 previous Turner Prize nominees, and 19 winners—Gillick opposed any future cuts in public funding for the arts. In the letter the cosignatories described the arts in Britain as a "remarkable and fertile landscape of culture and creativity." In October 2010, Gillick contributed a recipe for a vodka and lime juice-based cocktail as his participation in the Ryan Gander art project "Ryan's Bar". The beverage titled "Maybe it would be better if we worked in groups of two and a half," was sold for £50 per serving. In 2010, Gillick composed a score of "zingy electronica" for the artists' film Beijing, made by his ex wife Sarah Morris . Alongside Ingrid Schaffner, Tirdad Zolghadr and others, Gillick is a member of the Graduate Committee of the Center for Curatorial Studies and Art in Contemporary Culture at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, New York. He has been on the faculty of Columbia University School of the Arts in New York City since 1997. Since 2017, he has been a founding member of The American Friends of the ICA, a support group for the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA).