Florida State University The Basics About Florida State University Florida State University is a public institution that was founded in 1851. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 30,803, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 452 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar.  Florida State University's ranking in the 2011 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 104. Its in-state tuition and fees are $5,238; out-of-state tuition and fees are $19,773.
The Best thing about FSU is how "homey" it feels.  It seems like there is a disease that once you go to FSU and live in the area, you can never leave! (or at least while in college) People are friendly here and everyone hangs out with everyone.  There is a pride that you get when walking on campus because there is so much history.  The school pride definitely lowered when our football team wasn't doing too good, but we still stood up for the team and have pride that we are the Seminoles.  The most recent controversy on campus was Our football coaching staff and people quitting...aka: getting fired.I spend most of my time at the Psychology building or the library.  when I tell people that I go to FSU I get great remarks.  People get proud, envious and happy.  I do not know much about FSU's administration, but obviously they are doing good things.  what I would change is our roads- they are so crappy and everytime you drive anywhere you are getting jerked around.  It also makes the campus look "dirty", so I think clean up and construction is needed to make our campus look nicer.  Parking lots need to be paved because people get stuck in the rocks sometimes!  Also- because campus is so old, everything is so tight and random.  There will be random poles and weird stuff everywhere.  But this all adds to the feel of going to FSU so its cool!  of course, more parking is needed, but they have done great at building garages.  I always remember my freshman year and all the randomness with it.  One of the best years of my life.
The best thing about FSU is that there is always something going on around campus, and there are always activities hosted by some group to participate in. If not, there is always the Student Life Center where they play movies that are picked out by the student committee, and there are other things to do at the Student Life Center. The best thing is that are many alternatives to going to the club or drinking everynight, although there is still the option if you want to drink and go clubbing.    One thing that I would like to change about FSU is that there should not be so many students smoking so many times a day. There are always kids and adults smoking all around campus especially right outside of the dorms and classroom buildings.    I don't think that there is such a thing as a school being too large, unless the only thing you are going to college for is trying to be ranked within the top 50 students academically. Then you are not going to college for the full experience, which is essentially networking with the leaders of future endeavors to make the world a better place. The larger the class size the better your chances of succeeding then, and enjoying your college years while they happen. Many people would argue that there are way too many students on campus, but the companionship that you can find when you take the time to meet all of these students is much more rewarding than what you would experience on a smaller campus.    When I tell people that I go to FSU I am usually asked how I like it, and then they tell me that they would rather go to UF and don't have much reason as to why they would choose UF over FSU. I wish that there wouldn't be as much of a rivalry between UF and FSU students outside of football, but there is always somebody that likes to bring up the assumed inferiority of FSU students to UF students. Other than this rivalry most people like to hear what is great about FSU and why I chose to go there.    Most of my time on campus is spent in the dorm. Otherwise it is spent at the Student Life Center of the Leach Center. The Student Life Center has many things to offer in terms of entertainment, and the Leach Center has much to offer if you are involved in any sport or just want to work out.    FSU is definitely known as a college town, and there is always something to do for college students anywhere around town. The town definitely caters to the college ages and the clubs are constantly hosting events that are attractive for college students. There are also many bands that pass through town, mostly at the Beta Bar, that many college students like.    The administration at FSU is helpful. I haven't experienced much beyond the advisors for the College of Business, but they have been beyond helpful in helping me accomplish what I want. At the University Center, the Academic Advising Center also is helpful for those involved in any of the FSU sports, and can also provide a job for junior and senior level students in terms of tutoring.    The biggest recent controversy on campus involved a fight in the dorm between an intoxicated student and a non-intoxicated student. The intoxicated student confronted the non-intoxicated student and started calling him names. The non-intoxicated student will be called John and the intoxicated student will be called Harry. John asked Harry to go into his room and leave him alone because he was clearly drunk and acting stupid. Harry refused to leave John alone and eventually Harry lost his temper and started yelling at John, and at this point the RA called downstairs for more help, and the downstairs lobby called the FSUPD. When the FSUPD got there they ended up charging John with endangerment even though Harry was clearly intoxicated and could not think correctly. The moral is that if the police are coming, wear nice clothes so that you don't get falsely charged for something you didn't do.    There is a lot of school pride at the football games. There are sometimes where pride turns into stupidity and a Seminole fan will fight a fan of the opposing team because of the banter between the rivals. There are always other sporting events to go to throughout the year, but they do not draw nearly as vast a crowd as the football games.    There really isn't anything that unusual about FSU, but there are some rumors that some of the dorms are haunted, such as Cawthon Hall. Besides that, the building next to Suwannee Room looks kind of ominous at night when the lights are out.    One experience that I'll always remember at FSU is when my friends and I all decided to go to one of their apartments, and I danced and sung multiple songs all night until we fell asleep. Besides that, the blackout due to the plane crash was pretty memorable as everybody decided it would be a good time to scream and run up and down the halls of the dorms.    The most frequent student complaints are usually about the noise in the halls during the night. A lot of the kids often come back drunk and noisy in the middle of the night and wake up some of the kids in the dorms. The next most common complaint is being hungry or bored, which is frequently solved shortly after.
Copyright © 2011 U.S. News & World Report, L.P. All rights reserved.
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.