court_name
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Wrong name called in class 18 20.

judge_name
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Wrong name called in class 18 20.

plaintiff
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Again?

defendant
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
3.

hearing_year
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Again?

judgment_year
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Vicarious liability of VETAB 65 40.

charges
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
4.

verdict
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Again?

legal_basis
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Vicarious liability of VETAB 65 40.

appeal_information
candidate sentence: Pursuant to s 94(2) Ms Obieta is required to establish that the relevant respondent subjected, or threatened to subject her to any detriment on the grounds that Ms Obieta had or was believed to have made or proposed to make a complaint under the SDA or under the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(a)); or that Ms Obieta had brought or proposed to bring proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act against any person (s 94(2)(b)); or that Ms Obieta had furnished or produced or proposed to furnish or produce any information or documents to anybody exercising functions under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(c)); or that Ms Obieta had attended or proposed to attend a conference held under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(d)); or that Ms Obieta appeared or proposed to appear as a witness in proceedings under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(e)); or that Ms Obeita has reasonably asserted or proposed to assert any rights under the SDA or the HREOC Act (s 94(2)(f)); or that Ms Obieta had made an allegation that a person had done an act that is unlawful under Part II of the SDA (s 94(2)(g)).
Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) 
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth)
 Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551, referred to
 Baird and Others v Queensland (No 1) (2005) 224 ALR 541, referred to 
 Bropho v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [2004] FCAFC 16 ; (2004) 135 FCR 105, cited
 Commonwealth v McEvoy and Another [1999] FCA 105 ; (1999) 94 FCR 341, cited
 Cooke v Plauen Holdings [2001] FMCA 91 , referred to
 Cooper v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another [1999] FCA 180 ; (1999) 93 FCR 481, referred to 
 Creek v Cairns Post Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1007 ; (2001) 112 FCR 352, cited
 Damiano and Another v Wilkinson and Another [2004] FMCA 891 , cited
 Elliott v Nanda and Another [2001] FCA 418 ; (2001) 111 FCR 240, cited
 Gerhardy v Brown [1985] HCA 11 ; (1985) 159 CLR 70, referred to
 Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust [2000] FCA 1615 , referred to
 In Marriage of Lindsey (1995) 128 FLR 46, referred to
 Kelly-Country v Beers and Another [2004] FMCA 336 ; (2004) 207 ALR 421, referred to
 Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684 , referred to 
 Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission and Another (1998) 91 FCR 8, considered
 Microsoft Corporation and Another v Marks (No 1) 1996 69 FCR 117
 Neat Holdings Pty Ltd v Karajan Holdings Pty Ltd and Others [1992] HCA 66 ; (1992) 110 ALR 449, followed
 Purvis v New South Wales (Department of Education and Training) and Another [2003] HCA 62 ; (2003) 202 ALR 133, considered
 Rejfek and Another v McElroy and Another [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517, referred to
 Shaikh v Campbell &amp; Nivona Pty Ltd [1998] HREOCA 13 , cited
 Sharma v Legal Aid (Qld) [2002] FCAFC 196 ; (2002) 115 IR 91, cited
 Sivananthan v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Service [2001] NSWADT 44 , cited
 Tasmanian Wilderness Society Inc and Others v Fraser and Others [1982] HCA 37 ; (1982) 153 CLR 270, referred to 
 Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515, cited
 Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47, referred to
 Waters and Others v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49 ; (1991) 173 CLR 349, cited
 LINA OBIETA v NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD, TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE, DAVID NORMAN, ALEXIE DAVIS AND RYISSA FOGARTY 
 NSD 631 OF 2006 
 COWDROY J 
 7 FEBRUARY 2007 
 SYDNEY 
 IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE OF ORDER: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 WHERE MADE: SYDNEY 
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 1.
174 Mr Hassett says that upon receipt of Ms Obieta's letter of 3 August 2004, addressed to Ms Connellan, he made enquiries of Ms Illingworth and of Ms Lawson concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
Ms Lawson recalls Ms Obieta referred to other students' marks, but both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson informed her that they could not discuss other students' marks and that they could only address Ms Obieta's concerns with regard to her own marks.
146 Ms Obieta claims that in the meeting (held on 29 July 2004) with Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart, she told Mr Stewart that there was a class member who got a low 'pass' mark in the class test in the module taught by Mr Norman but that such grade was changed to 'credit' and that the class member had received a credit in her report/case study yet did not attend the whole period of the Advocacy Skills module taught by Mr Norman.
297 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth offered to have Ms Obieta's class test and assignments in the modules taught by Mr Norman re-marked by an independent assessor and that Mr Stewart was appointed to re-mark Ms Obieta's class tests and then subsequently her assignment.
256 Having made observations during oral evidence, and having considered their testimony, I find that the respondent's witnesses, the teachers of Ms Obieta, and staff of TAFE namely Mr Norman, Mrs Elfert, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson, Ms Willis and Mr Stewart were dedicated educators whose evidence I accept.
Both Ms Illingworth and Ms Lawson reassured Ms Obieta that Mr Stewart was qualified however Ms Obieta continued to challenge Mr Stewart's qualifications.
Ms Obieta claims that the conduct of the first, second and third respondents and that of several of their employees and also of Mr Norman, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty and other students, variously constitutes racial discrimination pursuant to ss 9 , 10 , 13 , 18 and 18C of the RDA, intimidating and coercive behaviour in breach of s 27(2) of the RDA, inciting unlawful acts under s 17 of the RDA, and vicarious liability pursuant to ss 18A and 18E of the RDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Mrs Elfert, her teacher in the modules of Litigation and Routine Legal Office Functions, supported Ms Fogarty and told Ms Chong and Ms Obieta not to ask questions during class discussions but to ask the questions after the class.
9 Ms Obieta then complained to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director, Educational Programs of TAFE concerning the conduct of Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, the factual matters, insofar as they have been already considered in the preceding paragraphs did occur, then there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex or because Ms Obieta had made complaints against Mr Norman to Ms Illingworth.
To establish her claims pursuant to this section Ms Obieta must demonstrate that the particular respondent acted in a way to intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty on Ms Obieta 'by reason that' Ms Obieta had made or proposed to make a complaint of unlawful discrimination, or had furnished or proposed to furnish information to the Commission, or proposed to attend a conference held under the RDA or the HREOC Act.
Ms Obieta says that Mr Norman indicated that one who would be advocating that there was no discrimination came from the Philippines, thereby indicating Ms Obieta, and the other had a history of China, thereby indicating Ms Chong, another student in the class.
132 With regard to the 'Centrelink' issues, Ms Illingworth noted that there was no way of resolving the disagreement between Mr Norman and Ms Obieta and accordingly said that she would interview the class members concerning the issues raised by Ms Obieta.
181 Ms Willis' affidavit states that Ms Grayce attempted to contact Ms Obieta on 16 September and 24 September 2004 and left messages requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
123 Ms Illingworth states that on 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta informed her that she wished to make a complaint concerning Mr Norman and said that Ms Obieta was not happy with the grade she had received for the Interaction in a Legal Office module.
59 Ms Obieta claims that on 25 August 2004 during a class conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Chong indicated to Ms Obieta that she did not know how to fill the form in.
33 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class Mr Norman said words to the effect, ' who is a refugee here ', ' Lina did you come here by boat ' and after Ms Obieta's reply that she was not a refugee but an immigrant Mr Norman said ' I do not know the difference between an immigrant and a refugee '.
25 Mr Norman denies that he was seeking to draw any distinction between Ms Obieta and Ms Chong, and Ms Seckold and Ms Tesoriero.
121 Ms Obieta claims that at the meeting held on 7 June 2004 she asked Ms Illingworth, Head Teacher, for an independent assessment of her class test and report/assignment in the modules taught by Mr Norman and that Ms Illingworth agreed that an independent assessor would undertake such task.
331 Ms Obieta complains that the Department of Education, VETAB and TAFE are vicariously liable for the conduct of their staff, namely Mr Norman, Ms Illingworth, Mrs Elfert, Mr Hassett and Ms Connellan.
As the other class had commenced and Ms Obieta's questioning was interrupting that class he asked Ms Obieta to make an appointment to see Ms Illingworth, the Head Teacher, and that he would attend to discuss her concerns.
306 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth was requested by Ms Obieta to provide information obtained in consequence of interviewing 21 students relating to Ms Obieta's complaints.
65 Ms Fogarty testified that she never saw Mr Norman become aggressive towards Ms Obieta and said that he was always polite and answered questions from any student including Ms Obieta in a polite and helpful manner.
156 Ms Illingworth rejects Ms Obieta's claims and says that the word 'Deferred' was included in her results because she had requested a review and that Ms Obieta was informed that the 'Deferred' result would remain until the matter was settled.
153 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to supply a copy of her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act but Ms Illingworth refused and advised her that a pass mark of 69.5 (as marked by Mr Stewart) would be rounded to 70 to make it a credit in the 'Transcript of Record'.
157 Ms Obieta wrote to Ms Terri Connellan, Assistant Director of Education Programs, in relation to the complaint concerning the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Mr Norman and Ms Illingworth and also asked for an appeal for the review/reassessment of her class test and report/case study by an independent assessor.
308 The Court finds that Ms Illingworth included the word 'Deferred ' in Ms Obieta's test results because Ms Obieta had requested a review of the mark she had received.
Having reviewed the complaints of Ms Obieta and the conduct by the Officers of TAFE in the review of the complaint, Ms Willis wrote to Ms Obieta on 4 February 2005 stating that VETAB had conducted an investigation of her complaint and was satisfied with the way in which TAFE had managed it.
293 The Court finds that there was an occasion when Ms Fogarty asked Ms Obieta to consider the rights of the other class members to ask questions and that Ms Obieta responded to such suggestion in a hostile manner.
He denies Ms Obieta's claim that Ms Illingworth told him not to answer Ms Obieta's questions.
102 Ms Davis repeats that her desk was so placed that she had to look towards Ms Obieta to see the front of the class, since Ms Obieta, although being in the front row, sat facing the back of the class.
92 Ms Obieta claims that on one occasion in class when Mr Norman mistakenly called Ms Cordova by the name of 'Lina', Ms Davis made a noise of a duck or a chicken.
207 For Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct of which she complains amounts to racial discrimination under s 9(1) of the RDA she must establish the occurrence of an act involving 'a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin' which had the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing of Ms Obieta's human rights or fundamental freedoms: see s 9(1) of the RDA.
310 The Court finds that Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta on several occasions by telephone to discuss her request for the supply of her Transcript of Record, but that no return phone call was made by Ms Obieta.
162 On 8 September 2004, having received no response to her messages requesting that Ms Obieta contact her, Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta informing her that attempts had been made to contact her in relation to the issues raised and that messages had been left on her home number on two days of the previous week.
When Ms Obieta's name was called out, Ms Obieta alleges that Ms Davis made the noise of a duck or chicken.
Mrs Elfert allegedly did not provide to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong the assessment guidelines for those modules, which Ms Obieta claims are mandatory.
Ms Obieta claims that these comments of Mr Norman's involved a distinction, exclusion or reference based on race, colour, descent or ethnic origin to offend, humiliate, insult and intimidate Ms Obieta in front of the class.
244 On 18 October 2006 Ms Chong swore that she did not consult with Ms Obieta, and did not see Ms Obieta's affidavits before she prepared her own affidavits.
163 On 20 September 2004, in the absence of any communication from Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that no further action on her part was possible because Ms Obieta had failed to respond to requests for communication.
5 On 7 June 2004 Ms Illingworth interviewed Ms Obieta in the presence of Ms Ellen Margaret Lawson, Head Teacher of Business Administration, and Mr Norman.
That is, pursuant to s 28A of the SDA, Ms Obieta would have to establish that the relevant respondent made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours (s 28A(1)(a)) or engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature (s 28A(1)(b)) in circumstances in which a reasonable person having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
By the date of this meeting, Mr Stewart had re-marked Ms Obieta's examination paper, as well as the examination papers of all other students in Ms Obieta's class, except one.
73 Mr Norman denies Ms Obieta's allegation that there was any argument and says that at all times he remained calm in attempting to explain to Ms Obieta that it was not necessary that a costs agreement be prepared for a client in a victim's compensation matter.
169 With regard to Ms Obieta's allegation that she requested her Transcript of Record with re-graded marks, Mr Hassett states that the records of TAFE NSW Sydney Institute database shows that Ms Obieta's re-graded results were sent to her on 6 August 2004.
42 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made these comments regarding Imelda Marcos and her shoes drawing a distinction based on race or ethnic background that were offensive, humiliating, insulting and designed to incite contempt towards Ms Obieta from other members of the class.
11 Ms Connellan had tried unsuccessfully to contact Ms Obieta on 2 and 3 September 2004 requesting Ms Obieta to contact her.
The Court finds that there is no discrimination based upon race, nor is there any evidence that such conduct constituted sexual harassment of Ms Obieta as claimed as in the circumstances a reasonable person would not have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offeneded, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
290 The Court finds that Ms Davis did make the statement as acknowledged by Ms Davis to Mrs Elfert but that such statement was made to Mrs Elfert and not to Ms Obieta.
Ms Illingworth denies that she told Ms Obieta to come back on the following day, as Ms Obieta alleges.
155 Ms Obieta says she requested Ms Illingworth to remove the words 'deferred' in the results of her Transcript of Record in the two modules of Mr Norman and provide her with the result of the investigations with the students in relation to her complaint against Mr Norman.
298 The Court also finds that there was an agreement made on 7 June 2004 by Ms Illingworth that Mr Norman would apologise to the class, but not specifically to Ms Obieta, for any misunderstanding that may have arisen out of class discussions.
89 Ms Obieta claims that on 23 June 2004 during a class being conducted by Mr Norman, Ms Davis sexually harassed her in the presence of Mr Norman.
74 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman asked the class when classes finished for the year and Ms Obieta answered that it would be ' up to the first week of December '.
Later, when she went to explain her statement to Ms Obieta, Ms Obieta took hold of Ms Davis' arm and ' screeched' at her, refusing to let go.
Further, the Court accepts the evidence of Ms Davis that such comment resulted from the exasperation of Ms Davis that so many questions were being asked requiring Mrs Elfert to provide extensive attention to Ms Obieta.
Ms Davis then waived her hand at Ms Obieta, sucked her middle finger while she was looking at Ms Obieta.
139 Ms Clifton explained the results to Ms Obieta, and showed Ms Obieta where the additional marks had been awarded.
Ms Obieta told the Court that Ms Chong's cousin who is a lawyer helped her prepare Ms Chong's affidavit.
161 Ms Connellan met with Ms Illingworth on 2 September 2004 and 6 September 2004 to discuss the management of Ms Obieta's complaint.
She says that she was surprised by such allegation because in previous remarks from Ms Obieta, she considered that Ms Obieta liked Mr Norman and until this time had received no negative feedback concerning his class.
8 During that meeting Ms Obieta complained that Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart had racially and sexually discriminated against her.
185 Ms Obieta claims that after an exam in Routine Legal Office Functions in December 2004, Ms Illingworth approached her and Ms Chong in the hallway and asked questions relating to the exam.
319 The Court finds that no evidence has been provided in support of the allegations that the strict protocols required for the marking of Category A exams were not upheld by TAFE or that Ms Obieta's intention to make a complaint to the Commission was in any way related to the fact that Ms Obieta failed the modules.
Present at that meeting was Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Ms Lawson and Mr Stewart.
Mr Norman denies that he said to Ms Obieta ' Lina, did you come here by boat ', and he denies that anything that was said in this discussion was designed to discriminate, offend, humiliate, intimidate or insult Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says she felt harassed and intimidated by Ms Davis' behaviour and felt that Ms Davis did not want Mrs Elfert to teach her or give her information.
Ms Obieta says that she and Ms Chong complained to Ms Illingworth concerning the allegedly misleading information provided by Mrs Elfert.
131 Ms Obieta had made allegations that Ms Illingworth had referred to Ms Davis as a 'bully' and that some of the students had been offended by the ' sex and condom ' issue.
Present were Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth, Mr Stewart and later, Ms Clifton.
Further, even if Ms Obieta was not provided with accurate information, there is no evidence to suggest that this was based upon Ms Obieta's race or sex and as such does not constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Ramos was always absent from the modules of Mr Norman and in other modules of this course yet nevertheless Mr Norman provided her with the grade of credit in all three modules.
The Court is satisfied that Mrs Elfert provided all the necessary information for Ms Obieta and other students and that Ms Obieta either failed to comprehend or failed to follow information provided to all students at the commencement of and during the course.
330 Ms Obieta has not established that the conduct complained of amounted to unlawful discrimination on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex and the Court rejects the allegations.
Upon receiving such letter Ms Illingworth telephoned Ms Obieta to tell her that such letter did not make any complaints of the kind she had referred to during her brief conversation with Ms Illingworth.
The Court accepts that she did not stare at Ms Obieta as claimed, and that there was no racial or sexual innuendo in her conduct as perceived by Ms Obieta which could constitute a breach of the RDA or SDA.
She acknowledges that she often went in front of Ms Obieta's desk with other members of the class but does not recall making any comments relating to Ms Obieta's hearing on any occasion and does not believe that she made such comments.
On 14 December 2004 Ms Connellan received a facsimile from Ms Margaret Willis, the general manager of VETAB advising her that Ms Obieta had made complaints.
Ms Obieta claims Ms Illingworth's conduct discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
Such claim could be established if such goods or services were supplied to Ms Obieta on terms or conditions less favourable than such goods and services would otherwise be supplied by reason of Ms Obieta's race, colour or national or ethnic origin or that of her relatives or associates (s 13(b)).
101 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was intentionally insulting and intimidating her and Ms Chong by insinuating that they had a hearing disability.
By letter dated 20 December 2004 Ms Connellan responded to Ms Willis informing her of the attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta and that so far as possible the complaint had been resolved to the best of her ability.
She claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with a further reassessment and accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
6 Ms Illingworth requested that Mr Norman provide an apology in respect of statements made in a class discussion which Ms Obieta claims were discriminatory.
Ms Obieta claims that she felt sexually harassed and humiliated on that ground and therefore Ms Obieta claims that his conduct breached s 28F of the SDA.
160 On 1 September 2004 Ms Connellan became aware that Ms Obieta had made a complaint to VETAB and following a discussion with an officer in VETAB it was agreed that her complaint would be managed by TAFE in accordance with TAFE's complaints policy namely ' Responding to Suggestions, Complaints and Allegations Policy '.
The Court is also satisfied that he was independent of the staff who were engaged in the day-to-day tuition of Ms Obieta and that accordingly his assessment of Ms Obieta's marks was 'independent'.
4 On 24 May 2004 Ms Obieta had raised matters of complaint concerning the alleged conduct of Mr Norman with the Head Teacher, Business Administration and Technology, Ms Nereda Catherine Illingworth.
216 Further, under s 9(1A)(b) Ms Obieta must established that she does not or cannot comply with the term, condition or requirement and under s 9(1A)(c), that the requirement has the purpose or effect of interfering with the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, by persons of the same race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin as Ms Obieta, of any relevant human right or fundamental freedom.
Further the Court is satisfied that Ms Obieta failed to respond to VETAB's requests that Ms Obieta contact them.
Ms Obieta demanded a distinction, but Mr Stewart explained that he was unable to justify the award of the additional marks necessary for Ms Obieta to achieve such grade.
Ms Obieta also makes allegations of sexual discrimination and harassment purportedly pursuant to ss 5 , 21 , 28A of the SDA, allegations of sexual harassment specifically in the context of educational institutions pursuant to s 28F of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have committed the offence of victimisation pursuant to s 94 of the SDA, allegations that the respondents have caused, instructed, induced, aided or permitted another person to do an act that would be unlawful under the SDA pursuant to s 105 of the SDA, and claims of vicarious liability pursuant to s 106 of the SDA.
324 In respect of Ms Obieta's claim that TAFE excluded her because she was not given revisionary exercises and a supplementary exam, the Court is satisfied from the evidence of Ms Illingworth and Mrs Elfert that the procedures were clearly established pursuant to which a student who is unsuccessful in an exam was entitled to sit for a further exam.
Ms Illingworth maintains that there was no breach of the agreement as alleged, since Ms Obieta's class test was marked by Mr Stewart, who was independent.
A distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon Ms Obieta's race is therefore not established and Ms Obieta was not treated less favourably than someone of the opposite sex.
Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty stated in oral evidence that Ms Illingworth had told the students on a number of occasions that if they failed a Category A exam it was their responsibility to approach her as Head Teacher, to make arrangements to undertake revision exercises and supplementary exams.
Ms Obieta claims that when Mr Norman apologised for calling Ms Cordova 'Lina', this created hostility from other students in the class.
Ms Obieta also alleges that TAFE had tampered with a letter forwarded by Ms Obieta's previous solicitor.
7 Ms Illingworth also arranged for Ms Obieta's examination paper to be reassessed by Mr William Stewart, a teacher in the Business Administration and Technology teaching section of TAFE.
159 Ms Connellan says that when she returned from leave on 30 August 2004 she had a discussion with Mr Hassett concerning the complaint and saw both Ms Obieta's letter and the response.
126 On Monday 31 May 2004 Ms Illingworth received a letter of complaint from Ms Obieta concerning Mr Norman.
112 Ms Obieta submits that Mrs Elfert supported Ms Fogarty's conduct and therefore Mrs Elfert engaged in conduct in breach of the RDA.
I have also formed the view that Ms Connellan, Mr Hassett, Ms Davis and Ms Fogarty were all truthful witnesses.
Ms Illingworth had informed him that Ms Obieta's class papers had been sent to Mr Stewart for reassessment.
124 Ms Illingworth says that Ms Obieta then began to speak to her in an agitated manner and made allegations against Mr Norman.
125 Ms Illingworth agrees that Ms Obieta asked her on 25 May 2004 if she had talked to Mr Norman concerning her grades.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis made such gesture in the presence of Mr Norman and demeaned her.
97 Ms Obieta claims that when called upon to recite something, Mr Norman referred to Ms Davis as ' Lina' .
152 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth refused to provide her with the results of the interviews and investigations into her complaints concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Normal towards her.
He states that the disquiet was not the fact that Ms Obieta had been awarded a distinction and he refutes that he was attempting to incite the class to feel contempt towards Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Elfert breached ss 9, 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
300 The Court finds that there is no discrimination against Ms Obieta as claimed resulting from any conduct engaged in by Ms Illingworth and that there is no basis for any claim under the RDA or SDA.
299 Further, the Court accepts Ms Illingworth's evidence concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta during the meeting on 7 June 2004.
122 Ms Obieta claims that she was therefore discriminated against by Ms Illingworth in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA and s 21 of the SDA.
107 Ms Obieta claims that an unnamed Asian student complained to Mrs Elfert that she had been hit on the shoulder and harassed by Ms Davis and that such complaint had been made to Mrs Elfert in the presence of other students.
The Court also finds that Ms Illingworth refused to provide both but does not find that Ms Obieta requested her class test pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act .
Ms Illingworth responded that she had not done so because Mr Norman, a part-time teacher, had not been at TAFE since she last spoke with Ms Obieta.
Ms Connellan also spoke to Mr Hassett concerning Ms Obieta's letter of 26 August 2004.
22 Mr Norman says that before the debate commenced he said to Ms Obieta and Ms Chong:
 'I don't know if you have ever been discriminated against.
Ms Illingworth informed Ms Obieta that no examination papers would be returned until Mr Norman was instructed to do so.
She said at one stage Ms Obieta started 'screeching' and verbally abusing her when it was suggested to Ms Obieta that she should reciprocate the same rights to other students.
133 Ms Illingworth denies that it was agreed that Mr Norman would apologise personally to Ms Obieta.
Ms Obieta says it was also agreed that Mr Norman would apologise to her in front of the class but that Mr Norman only apologised to the class and not to her.
127 A meeting was then arranged for Ms Obieta, Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman on 7 June 2004.
Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis' conduct constitutes racial discrimination under ss 9 and 18C of the RDA.
307 There is no basis to suggest that Ms Illingworth's refusal resulted from racial or sexual considerations relating to Ms Obieta and accordingly there was no breach of the RDA or the SDA.
She denies that she failed to provide Ms Obieta with vital information and that she supplied Ms Obieta with incorrect information.
Ms Obieta also claims that she advised Ms Illingworth that the test was unfairly reassessed and re-marked by Mr Stewart.
Ms Illingworth told Ms Obieta that she could ask Mr Norman for a review.
He maintains that he was always civil and polite when he was responding to questions from Ms Obieta, as well as questions from any other student, and that he did not address Ms Obieta at any time in a 'nasty' manner.
As Ms Conellan was absent on leave at that time, Mr Peter Hassett, Chief Education Officer of TAFE reviewed Ms Obieta's complaints.
She recalls that there was a disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza at which time Mr Norman told them that he would check the timetable.
The Court also accepts the evidence of Ms Illingworth concerning the conduct of Ms Obieta in a subsequent meeting on 29 July 2004.
As such Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis discriminated against her on the grounds of race within the meaning of ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA.
103 During the class of Mrs Susan Elfert, Ms Obieta says that Ms Davis came up to her and Mrs Elfert and said ' Oh, you are tutoring her.
'
Mrs Elfert also says that Ms Obieta was not the only student to fail a Category A exam and that another class member, Ms Chong had failed, re-sat and subsequently passed the examination.
113 Ms Obieta claims that after a class she talked to Mrs Elfert in the presence of Ms Chong and made a complaint that she was being victimised and denied access to learning, which was affecting her work and her studies.
151 Ms Lawson recalls that Ms Obieta challenged Mr Stewart's qualifications and abilities to re-evaluate her results and claimed that he was not a law teacher.
Ms Obieta claims that she and Ms Chong asked Mrs Elfert the requirements for the exam in the litigation module and Mrs Elfert provided the wrong information by informing her that the examination was one in which books were not allowed.
137 Ms Illingworth then requested Mr Stewart to mark the assignment of Ms Obieta, and of two other students.
100 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis was always staring at her and watching her all the time in class and outside class to intimidate and distress her.
170 Mr Hassett acknowledges that Ms Obieta again wrote on 26 August 2004 to him complaining of Mr Norman's conduct and that such letter had been received on 2 September 2004.
166 Mr Hassett says that he became aware that on 3 August 2004 Ms Obieta had written to Ms Connellan during her absence.
Ms Obieta suggested Ms Chong ask Mr Norman.
Because Ms Obieta then alleged bias, Ms Illingworth informed her that the class tests of all the students would be re-marked and compared to each other.
 [ Home ] [ Databases ] [ WorldLII ] [ Search ] [ Feedback ] Federal Court of Australia You are here: &nbsp; AustLII &gt;&gt; Databases &gt;&gt; Federal Court of Australia &gt;&gt; 2007 &gt;&gt; [2007] FCA 86 
 [ Database Search ] [ Name Search ] [ Recent Decisions ] [ Noteup ] [ Download ] [ Help ] Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Educationand Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 (7 February 2007) 
Last Updated: 8 February 2007 
 FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA 
 Lina Obieta v New South Wales Department of Education and Training and Ors [2007] FCA 86 
 DISCRIMINATION --- racial discrimination --- sex discrimination --- victimisation --- vicarious liability --- credit of applicant 
 Held : Application dismissed.
312 In view of these proven facts, the Court is unable to find that there is any racial or sexual discrimination directed towards Ms Obieta in consequence of any conduct of Ms Connellan.
108 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty deprived her of the right to ask questions during class discussions during the Litigation module and that this constituted discrimination.
305 The Court is satisfied there is no racial or sexual discrimination resulting from Mr Stewart's re-mark of Ms Obieta's paper and thus no breach of either the RDA or the SDA.
140 Ms Illingworth denies that Ms Obieta requested a copy of her class test under the Freedom of Information Act .
The Court accepts that but for the ultimate honesty of Ms Chong, Ms Obieta would have deliberately deceived the Court.
Ms Obieta says that Ms Fogarty came up to her seat on 28 October 2004 and said: ' I hate this class.
180 Ms Obieta says VETAB replied acknowledging receipt of her complaint and states that Ms Dawn Grayce, Senior Project Officer, informed her that organisations such as TAFE were required to comply with the Standards of the Australian Quality Training Framework and that VETAB was responsible for monitoring such compliance.
Accordingly, Ms Obieta claims that Ms Illingworth failed to comply with the agreement to have her test reviewed independently and to have her papers marked by an independent assessor.
243 Ms Kim Hua Chong provided two affidavits in support of Ms Obieta's allegations dated 16 June 2006 and 16 September 2006 respectively.
This occurred when the students were light-hearted and the Court finds that Ms Davis' giggling was not directed at Ms Obieta.
As a result Ms Obieta claims that she was harassed and bullied and that the conduct of Mr Norman breached ss 9, 17 and 27 of the RDA and s 94 of the SDA.
109 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Fogarty's behaviour had the purpose of undermining and endangering her study or work performance or academic success or progress.
He did not respond since Ms Connellan had taken over the conduct of Ms Obieta's complaint.
Even if the Court were in error in so concluding, upon the facts alleged, they would not give rise to any issue under the RDA because there is no suggestion that the statements of Mr Norman were related to Ms Obieta's race.
He recalls that there was some disagreement between Ms Obieta and Ms de Souza but as it was disrupting the class he said that he would check the timetable.
311 The Court finds that since it was not possible to communicate with Ms Obieta, Ms Connellan communicated with VETAB advising that no further action could be taken.
Ms Davis said that Ms Obieta sat facing the back of the class, and she faced the front.
285 The Court is unable to accept that Ms Davis made the noises as Ms Obieta has not discharged the requisite burden of proof.
95 Ms Obieta claims that Ms Davis harassed her in relation to the incident referred to above ('the Cheezels incident').
90 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was legally responsible for the students and that failing to control the class and permitting such conduct constituted treatment less favourable to her than to the other students and violated her human right.
The Court is not satisfied that any such act would constitute a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race or that such conduct would constitute an unwelcome sexual advance, request or other unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature in circumstances in which a reasonable person in the circumstances would have anticipated that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.
Those issues concerned not only the alleged conduct of Mr Norman in the classroom but also raised a complaint alleging discrimination based upon Ms Obieta's assertion that she was deliberately awarded poor results for her examination work.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was unlawful as it constituted breaches of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RDA'), the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('the SDA') and against Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
Such letter requested that Ms Obieta telephone Ms Connellan's assistant to arrange a suitable time to meet with a view to resolving her issues.
Ms Obieta alleges that these incidents resulted from Ms Davis, '... staring at me and intimidating me all the time in class, and bullied me '.
197 Ms Obieta says that on 17 March 2005 her solicitor, Ms Jill Yates of Hargreaves Practice, wrote to TAFE on her behalf concerning her complaint.
He requested Ms Obieta and Ms Chong to debate that there was no discrimination and addressed two other students and asked them to prepare the opposite argument.
158 Ms Connellan says that as she was on leave she did not see or respond to a letter which Ms Obieta wrote dated 3 August 2004 which itemised her requests.
173 Ms Obieta claims that TAFE discriminated against her by reason of the above and denied her benefits and claims discrimination in breach of ss 9 , 13 , 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
171 Ms Obieta complains that she wrote on 26 August 2004 to Mr Hassett advising again of the discrimination against her which was continuing in consequence of the conduct of Mr Norman.
190 Ms Obieta says that VETAB advised her by letter dated 4 February 2005 that it was satisfied by the way in which TAFE had conducted the complaint against it and that the conduct of Mr Norman did not constitute discrimination towards any student.
The evidence shows that Ms Obieta's friend, Ms Chong sat for such exams.
249 Despite the above, the Court asked Ms Chong whether she had a recollection of the events relied upon by Ms Obieta.
269 The Court accepts Mr Norman's evidence that he called out the names of the students who he could not readily see or recognise and that since Ms Obieta was well known to him and was always visible sitting in the front row, it was unnecessary for him to call out her name.
154 Ms Illingworth acknowledges that Ms Obieta received the grade of 'credit', and says that she did not qualify for the grade of 'distinction'.
On 20 September 2004 Ms Connellan contacted VETAB to advise that she could take no further action because of the absence of communication from Ms Obieta.
12 Thereafter Ms Obieta wrote to Margaret Anne Willis, Director of Quality Assurance Services of the NSW Department of Education and Training, complaining of her treatment by Ms Connellan and reiterating the complaints against her teachers.
To see the teacher Ms Davis would look in the direction of Ms Obieta who occupied a seat in the front row.
The Court is also satisfied that the actions of TAFE in relation to Ms Obieta's requests for her class test, results of interviews and enquiries relating to the 'Deferred' result appearing on her Transcript of Record were not racially or sexually discriminatory and do not constitute breaches of RDA or SDA.
111 Ms Fogarty denies that she treated Ms Obieta in the manner alleged and denies that she deprived her of any opportunity as claimed to ask questions.
138 Ms Illingworth arranged a meeting with Ms Obieta which took place on 29 July 2004.
178 Ms Obieta claims that her request to VETAB to audit the student's records in relation to the discrepancies in the grading and assessment practices of Mr Norman and in the teaching staff of TAFE was not actioned.
28 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman awarded her low grades in her class test and assignment on a case study in the module ' Professional Misconduct-Legal Profession Act ' in the first semester of 2004.
273 Even if, contrary to the Court's finding, Mr Norman responded as Ms Obieta alleges, there is no evidence that such conduct was racially based.
96 Ms Davis denies the allegations and says that she rarely spoke to Ms Obieta.
184 Ms Willis' affidavit annexes a file note which details the attempts made by VETAB to communicate with Ms Obieta by telephone, email and letter, and by message sent through her teacher.
Secondly, with respect to claims of unlawful discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the RDA, it is essential that the discrimination, harassment or victimisation be proved, on the balance of probabilities, on the ground of Ms Obieta's race (see Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc and Another [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47).
105 Ms Obieta claims that during the Word Processing module she complained to the teacher, Ms Nguyen, that the Word program had been removed from the computer she was using.
251 It is disturbing that Ms Obieta was prepared to permit testimony to be given to the Court by Ms Chong which she knew was false.
261 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Norman that the statement relied upon by Ms Obieta occurred during a class exercise and was made in the context of a recent television program.
323 In respect to Ms Obieta's claim that she was treated less favourably than other students and that TAFE's conduct involved an exclusion, segregation or restriction and preference based on race, the Court is satisfied that there is no evidence to support such allegation.
In any event, such conduct would not establish a breach of ss 9(1) and 13 of the RDA as the onus of establishing that there was a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference which was based on Ms Obieta's race or that she was refused supply of goods and services because of her race is not satisfied.
141 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Stewart's conduct ' involved an exclusion and preference ' which denied her access to benefits, rights and privileges provide by TAFE, and discriminated against her in the way he provided services to her as a student.
130 Ms Illingworth said that Ms Obieta became very aggressive and was yelling much of the time.
208 The elements that Ms Obieta must establish to prove race discrimination within the meaning of s 9(1) of the RDA are as follows: a person must do an 'act'; the act must involve either a 'distinction', 'exclusion', 'restriction' or 'preference' in the areas of 'social' or 'cultural' life or any 'field of public life'; the act must be based on race; the act must have either the purpose or the effect of impairing a human right; and the relevant 'human right' is identified.
The evidence of Ms Connellan establishes that her attempts to communicate with Ms Obieta in September 2004 were unsuccessful.
Following her complaint to Ms Illingworth concerning Mr Norman's conduct, Mr Norman continued to provide her with less favourable treatment and interfered with her work and learning conditions.
82 Ms Obieta claims that on 10 November 2004 Mr Norman created a hostile and intimidating environment and deliberately created problems for her with other students because he repeatedly stated that she received a 'distinction' in her case study whereas the other students got a 'credit'.
However, Ms Obieta later instituted separate proceedings against the Commission (see Lina Obieta v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission [2006] FCA 1684) and the Court ordered that the Commission be removed as first respondent to these proceedings.
Ms Obieta claims that at this meeting Ms Lawson prevented her from speaking.
255 Ms Obieta has further alleged that the TAFE records have been falsified and in particular that the record of Ms Ramos had been altered.
It provides the definition of sexual harassment and in order for Ms Obieta to establish that any of the conduct alleged constitutes sexual harassment she must establish that a person made an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours to her (s 28A(1)(a)) or that a person engaged in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature directed at her (s 28A(1)(b)).
46 Mr Norman denies that he said the words attributed to him by Ms Obieta and denies that he made mention of the fact that a student was on a ' mutual obligation scheme ' and denies that he had any knowledge whether any of his students were receiving any financial assistance from Centrelink.
In the absence of any reply Ms Connellan wrote to Ms Obieta on 8 September 2004.
128 An agenda for the meeting was then given to Ms Obieta prepared by Ms Illingworth.
Mr Hassett took no action but the Court is satisfied that Mr Hassett, by not responding to her letter, did not discriminate against Ms Obieta on the grounds of race or sex.
Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman made the comment in class that ' hostile people answering will get low grades and people who are not hostile answering will get high grades '.
72 Mr Norman responds that he explained to Ms Obieta that since solicitor's fees for a victim are paid by the Victim's Compensation Tribunal rather than through a costs agreement with the client, it was not necessary to have a costs agreement with the client.
Similarly, with regard to a claim for sexual discrimination, harassment or victimisation under the SDA, discrimination, harassment or victimisation based upon Ms Obieta's sex must be established on the balance of probabilities: see Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia and Another (No1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553.
Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said ' There are some people here who are doing mutual obligation with Centrelink and are being paid by Centrelink to do this course, ' and accordingly breached ss 9, 17, and 18C of the RDA.
For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under this section she must establish that there was an act; that the act was done by an employee or agent of a person; that the act was done in connection with his or her duties as an employee or agent (s 18A(1)(a)); and that the act would be unlawful under Part II of the RDA if it were done by that person (s 18A(1)(b)).
As such Ms Davis looked towards Ms Obieta, but denies that she stared at her.
280 The Court accepts that Mr Norman inadvertently referred to another student using Ms Obieta's name.
172 Ms Obieta also complained that she had not received her Transcript of Record with her grade on the two modules of Mr Norman and a copy of the class test and the result of the investigation had not been provided to her.
She remembers Mr Norman responding to Ms Obieta's question whether the man was gay by saying words to the effect: 'that is not a matter that is relevant to apply for victims' compensation', and that such words were said in calm manner.
78 Mr Norman says that he inadvertently referred to Ms Cordova as Lina, realised his mistake and apologised to Ms Cordova.
120 Ms Fogarty confirmed the evidence of Mrs Elfert and Ms Davis, and said that Mrs Elfert encouraged students to take notes on the assessment guidelines.
Although no cause for complaint arose in 2003, during May of 2004 Ms Obieta made allegations with respect to the conduct of her course, and against Mr David Norman, her teacher.
79 Ms Obieta states that during the class discussion on 8 September 2004, Mr Norman came closer to her, looked at her and said in a nasty way:
 'Oh, I don't want to be representing a client who assaulted somebody.
Ms Obieta claims that other students had informed her that they had verified the verbal behaviour of Mr Norman in class.
63 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's discriminatory conduct was unnecessary to the performance of his professional duties.
51 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman did not mark her class test and assignment fairly, and refused to change her grade when she requested it.
37 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman's remarks were irrelevant to the discussion and that he raised the subject of sex for the purpose of intimidating and humiliating the listeners.
Ms Connellan attempted to contact Ms Obieta and left several messages requesting that she communicate with her.
13 Ms Obieta thereafter referred the conduct of Mr Norman, TAFE and VETAB to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('the Commission').
57 Mr Norman responds that he recalls the question being raised by Ms Obieta and that he said words to the effect ' Lina, that is not a matter that is relevant to applying for victim's compensation in this case.
'
Ms Connellan requested that Ms Obieta contact her.
283 The burden of proof of the allegation that Mr Norman threw Ms Obieta's class test at her is not discharged.
Such agreement was made solely in an attempt to placate Ms Obieta, without any acknowledgement by Mr Norman that his conduct in the class discussion was in any way improper.
Ms Chong reiterated that she had not collaborated with Ms Obieta and that the content of the affidavits was from her own recollection.
149 Mr Obieta claims that she disagreed with Ms Illingworth at the meeting on 29 July 2004 concerning the re-assessment of her class test.
250 Ms Chong withdrew as a witness after Ms Obieta acknowledged that she did not wish to persevere with her testimony.
She does recall that Ms Obieta claimed that she had been treated unfairly in Mr Norman's class.
165 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Hassett's conduct was discriminatory because he denied her access to benefits provided by an education institution and that she received less favourable treatment.
She claims that Ms Davis was mimicking manner of speech or her Asian accent in class and that Ms Davis made racist sounds in her presence.
18 Mr Norman was Ms Obieta's teacher of the modules Interaction in a Legal Office , Interaction with Other Parties and Advocacy Skills , each of which were part of the TAFE course for the Diploma of Business-Legal Studies.
270 The Court does not accept that Ms Obieta was marked unfairly in her class test and assignment by Mr Norman.
Ms Obieta says that she argued with Mr Norman and told him that since a motor vehicle accident claim for personal injuries requires a costs agreement, the same should apply to a victim's compensation claim.
10 In relation to the reassessment of Ms Obieta's assignment, Mr Hassett satisfied himself that TAFE's Review of Results Policy had been followed.
Even if such statements had been said, they would not amount to a breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA as there is no evidence that such statement was based on Ms Obieta's race.
199 Ms Davis testified that Ms Illingworth often told class members of the procedure to be followed if they failed Category A examinations, namely that they should approach her and ask her to make arrangements to do revision exercises and supplementary exams.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY NSD 631 OF 2006 
 BETWEEN: LINA OBIETA 
 Applicant AND: NEW SOUTH WALES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
 First Respondent 
 NSW VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACCREDITATION BOARD 
 Second Respondent 
 TAFE NSW SYDNEY INSTITUTE 
 Third Respondent 
 DAVID NORMAN 
 Fourth Respondent 
 ALEXIE DAVIS 
 Fifth Respondent 
 RYISSA FOGARTY 
 Sixth Respondent 
 JUDGE: COWDROY J DATE: 7 FEBRUARY 2007 PLACE: SYDNEY 
 INDEX page number 
 INTRODUCTION 1 I SUMMARY OF FACTS 1 II SPECIFIC ISSUES 4 COMPLAINTS AGAINST MR NORMAN 4 1.
The Court also accepts that Mr Stewart, in response to Ms Obieta's demand that her grades be increased from a credit to a distinction, explained to her that she did not gain sufficient marks required for such standard.
45 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman intentionally intimidated and humiliated her in the class by announcing on three occasions that somebody was doing ' mutual obligation ' with Centrelink.
77 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman gave less favourable treatment to her and created hostility in the class.
168 Mr Hassett says that he noted Ms Obieta's request under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) but states that at that time it was his understanding that requests had to be made in a more formal manner.
53 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman was victimising her by ' acting furious ' and dictating fast in class after she made a complaint relating to him.
71 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman provided her with wrong information relating to the need for a costs agreement in a victim's compensation matter.
Accordingly Ms Obieta claims that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
48 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman was isolating and segregating her from the rest of the class by not calling her name out when marking the roll.
Ms Obieta claims that such conduct breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
41 Ms Obieta alleges that Mr Norman said to her during class discussions, ' Lina, isn't it Imelda Marcos that comes from the Philippines where you come from ' and ' how are the 3000 shoes of Imelda Marcos?
272 Mr Norman acknowledges that a question was asked by Ms Obieta and the Court finds that he responded as he states and that this was appropriate.
Ms Davis then recalls Ms de Souza then said that the last exam was in December in the previous year and that the class would finish in November.
320 In respect of Ms Obieta's complaint that VETAB did nothing to resolve her complaints and failed to take appropriate action, the Court finds that VETAB, although a separate statutory entity, comprises part of the Department of Education and that its role was to ensure that educational institutions registered with it had appropriate grievance procedures in place.
177 Ms Obieta states that she complained to VETAB concerning the discriminatory conduct of Mr Norman towards her and the discrepancies in his grading and assessment practices.
52 Mr Norman denies the allegation that he unfairly assessed and marked Ms Obieta's work and that there were discrepancies in his grading system and assessment practices.
187 Ms Obieta alleges that TAFE discriminated against her in breach of ss 9 and 13 of the RDA, and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA because she was not awarded the Diploma due to her fail results in the two subjects.
The Court therefore finds that there is no basis for the allegations of unlawful discrimination or victimisation made by Ms Obieta and there was no breach of the RDA or SDA as claimed.
30 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman discriminated against her on the grounds of race and violated her civil rights to freely express her opinions.
Ms Obieta claims that in consequence she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 of the SDA.
The Court is satisfied that such occasion does not give rise to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the SDA as a reasonable person would not anticipate that Ms Obieta would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by such conduct.
In addition, Ms Obieta claims that the respondents have breached provisions of the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (entered into force 2 January 1969) ('ICERD'), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (entered into force 23 March 1976) ('ICCPR'), the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (entered into force 27 August 1983) ('CEDAW') and the Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation , (entered into force 15 June 1960) ('CDREO').
Ms Obieta claims that by reason of Mr Norman saying such words loudly and repeatedly on two occasions, she felt discriminated against.
Further, even if, contrary to the Court's finding, such incident occurred, there is nothing to suggest that it was made on the basis of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Mr Norman says he responded in a calm manner and he denied that he got ' very angry ' or that he ' yelled ' at Ms Obieta as she claims.
On the afternoon of 26 May 2004 Ms Illingworth and Mr Norman had a conversation in which Mr Norman was asked to re-mark the exam.
301 The Court accepts the evidence of Mr Stewart that he explained to Ms Obieta at the meeting on 29 July 2004 the procedure he had used to mark the paper.
Further the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose because of any racial distinction or oppression, nor is there any evidence that it was based upon Ms Obieta's sex.
68 Mr Norman does not recall the particular incident in question and believes that he would not have asked Ms Obieta to write her letter on the board.
She acknowledges that she was told to contact Ms Illingworth but said that as Ms Illingworth had not conducted herself properly during her previous complaints, she did not regard it as appropriate that she should contact her.
189 Mrs Elfert testified that although she was a member of the marking panel there are 'strict protocols' in place to prevent a person marking the papers of a student from that person's own college and that she did not have access to Ms Obieta's exam papers nor did she mark them.
62 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman victimised her during her period of study with TAFE.
66 Ms Obieta claims that Mr Norman requested her to write her assignment, being a letter to a client, on the board.
Ms Obieta claims that he breached ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
38 Mr Norman denies that a conversation took place in the manner described by Ms Obieta and denies particularly that he said the words attributed to him.
235 For Ms Obieta to establish a claim under s 21(2)(a) of the SDA she must prove that the respondents discriminated against her on the ground of her sex pursuant to the definition in s 5 of the SDA, either by denying or limiting her access to any benefits provided by the educational authority (s 21(2)(a)) or by subjecting her to any other detriment (s 21(2)(c)).
215 To succeed in establishing a claim under s 9(1A) of the RDA that there was an act involving a distinction based on, or done by reason of, her race, colour, decent or national or ethnic origin, Ms Obieta must establish that a term, condition or requirement that was not reasonable in the circumstances was imposed upon her (see s 9(1A)(a)).
50 Ms Davis recalls Mr Norman stating in class that it was necessary for him to keep the class roll as part of his duty of care to ensure that if a student was injured there was a record of those present in class and of those who had left.
145 Mr Stewart denies Ms Obieta's evidence that she advised him that the assessment should be based on the ' assessment tools of the competency-based training '.
200 Ms Fogarty also testified that Ms Illingworth told the students of the process to be followed if they failed a Category A examination.
143 In the re-mark of the three student's assignments Mr Stewart says that no marks were indicated on the paper of Ms Obieta.
302 The Court is satisfied that there is no conduct which could constitute a breach of the RDA or the SDA and that no discrimination of any kind was suffered by Ms Obieta.
295 The Court rejects the claims of Ms Obieta that Mrs Elfert failed to provide her with vital information and supplied her with the wrong or incorrect information relating to the assessment guidelines, notes, lessons and requirements concerning exams.
As a result she discriminated against Ms Obieta in breach of ss 9 , 13 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
As a consequence she claims that Ms Illingworth's conduct involved an exclusion and preference which denied her access to benefits, and that she was discriminated against in breach of ss 9 and 27 of the RDA and ss 21 and 94 of the SDA.
She claims that Ms Illingworth declined to do so and that Ms Illingworth handled the grievance procedure poorly, unsatisfactorily and inadequately.
275 Ms Obieta appears to repeat allegations she has already made concerning the dictation of Mr Norman, with a variant that he mumbled when dictating as well as dictating fast.
Mr Hassett acknowledges that his assumptions may have been incorrect but his action in declining to make the invitation available was not because of Ms Obieta's background, race or sex.
232 To establish her claims pursuant to this section, Ms Obieta must show that the particular respondents were actively inciting or encouraging behaviour that is made unlawful by a provision of Part II of the RDA (s 17(a)) or that the respondents assisted or promoted the doing of such acts (s 17(b)).
The Court accepts that Mr Hassett knew nothing of the background of Ms Obieta and did not discriminate against her on the ground of race or sex in declining to forward her Transcript of Record.
Further, the Court finds that there is no evidence that such conduct arose in consequence of Ms Obieta's race or sex.
Prior to the meeting commencing, Ms Obieta was allowed time to read a letter written by Mr Norman in response to her complaint.
On 26 August 2004 Ms Obieta responded complaining that Mr Norman continued to be unpleasant and intimidating towards her.
Ms Obieta claims that such remarks were repeated many times and were yelled by Mr Norman whilst he was in a rage.
As such Ms Obieta claims that such conduct was a breach of ss 9, 17, 18C and 27 of the RDA.
91 Mr Norman says that he did not see, and is not aware of the incident to which Ms Obieta is referring.
Vicarious liability of VETAB 65 40.