court_name
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
My arrived in my Office.

judge_name
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
My arrived in my Office.

plaintiff
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
I.

defendant
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
I.

hearing_year
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
My arrived in my Office.

judgment_year
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
My arrived in my Office.

charges
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
I.

verdict
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
I.

legal_basis
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
I.

appeal_information
candidate sentence: RMC and Dallas Gibson alleged that the cross-respondents: (1) infringed the copyright assigned by Dallas Gibson to RMC; (2) defamed Dallas Gibson and, in some instances, RMC, by the publication of statements on MedEntry's website; and (3) engaged in passing off (through the use of the "MedEntry" name) and conduct in contravention of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA (through the use of the "MedEntry" name and the unauthorised use of third parties' logos).
139 RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, by using the name "MedEntry", MedEntry and Anzie had represented falsely that:
(1) RMC and Dallas Gibson had sponsored or approved MedEntry and Anzie or their goods and services in breach of s 52 , 53 (c) or 53 (d) of the TPA; and 
(2) their business was the same as that of RMC and Dallas Gibson, or was sponsored by or connected with their business (or MedEntry's and Anzie's goods and services were those of RMC and Dallas Gibson), which conduct amounted to passing off.
163 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati conceded that the first line of the first publication referred to the course run by Dallas Gibson and RMC, but Ann and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph --- "Be wary of 'one-man shows' with dogmatic declarations, fictitious testimonials and little substance" --- was not intended to refer to Dallas Gibson but rather was intended to refer to Ryan Schulman, who operated the UMAT business trading as "Agoneyes".
The organisations in question were Rural Workforce Agency Victoria ("RWAV"); Diabetes Australia, Victoria ("Diabetes Australia"); Arthritis Victoria; Australian Nursing &amp; Midwifery Council ("ANMC"); Australasian College of Nutritional &amp; Environmental Medicine ("ACNEM"); Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd ("Novartis"); Holistic Health House; and the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch ("ADA").
As a result of his examination of the material, he concluded in his report that "it is highly likely that [MedEntry's questions] were plagiarised from [the cross-claim works in suit]"; "that the person who perpetrated this activity is not likely to be a native-speaker of English"; "that he or she has medical or other scientific knowledge or training"; and "that the possibility exists that there is more than one author, given the varying standard of diligence shown in the phrasing, punctuation and organisation of some of the questions".
In December 2003, however, before their business was fully operational, they changed their business name to "MedEntry", and Ray Boyapati created a new website with the domain name " www.medentry.com.au ", following Dallas Gibson's warning telephone calls to Dr Nimi Boyapati's practice.
179 On the same day, 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a fourth commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
140 These arguments depended on the cross-claimants showing that: (1) at the relevant times their business was called "Medical Entrance"; (2) they had a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance"; (3) the use of the name "MedEntry" misrepresented that the MedEntry business was the same as the business operated by them, or was connected with or sponsored by their business; and (4) that they suffered loss and damage as a result.
(1) UMAT Superprep Courses;
(2) Dallas Tertiary Prep Skills;
(3) Dallas Medical Entrance;
(4) Dallas Super Prep (according to Dallas Gibson, prior to 2004);
(5) Tertiary Prep Skills (according to Dallas, this was an "early" usage);
(6) Icarus College (from around March 2004); and
(7) Dallas SuperKeenEye.
Her evidence in this regard must be considered with her earlier evidence that her initial reaction was to ask Dallas Gibson if the questions were "good questions", to which Dallas Gibson replied "okay".
180 On 16 April 2005, Edward Boyapati wrote a fifth commentary, which Ray Boyapati put up on the MedEntry website in the following terms:
 MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 16/04/2005 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia against Dallas Gibson and Icarus College for breach of copyright and breach of Trade Practices Act .
7 RMC and Dallas Gibson cross-claimed that Dallas Gibson, not the applicants, created 160 of the questions and answers that made up the 800 questions and answers in the applicants' claim; and that RMC, not the applicants, was the owner of the copyright in these 160 questions and answers.
These 800 questions and answers were also reproduced in a material form when Dallas Gibson converted them from files stored on Mr Van Tran's compact disks into files stored on Dallas Gibson's laptop and ultimately converted into the practice exams files made available to students through the Icarus College learning management system: see s 21(1A).
103 There were some specific similarities in the language used by the MedEntry questions and Dallas Gibson's questions, which, when contrasted with the pre-existing sources, indicated that Dallas Gibson's questions had been copied from the MedEntry questions.
117 Mr Olsson's assertion that Dallas Gibson's questions displayed a more "teacherly" character than the MedEntry questions may reflect the fact that he had more experience in preparing students for the UMAT and other aptitude tests than the Boyapatis.
On 24 June 2004 Steven Shi informed Dallas Gibson that the Icarus College practice exams and MedEntry's practice exams were the same, as did Edward Boyapati (through an email using the name "Robert Tam") on 17 July 2004.
Stanley Aldous of the ADA, a witness called by the cross-claimants, gave evidence that, following a telephone call from Dallas Gibson in June 2006 about the display of the ADA's logo on MedEntry's website, he had made internal enquiries, following which the ADA asked MedEntry to take its logo down from the MedEntry webite.
The cross-claimants failed to establish that: (1) they had any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" that would support their claim for passing off ; (2) there was any misrepresentation involved in the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry"; or (3) (subject to the orders of 10 July 2006) that they suffered any resulting loss and damage.
14 Dr Nimi Boyapati gave evidence at the trial, which I accept, that in early December 2003 her secretary, Josephine Fsadni, put a telephone call through to her from a person who introduced himself as "Dallas Gibson, 'UMAT' coach", inquiring after Ray Boyapati's phone number.
27 In May 2004, the applicants discovered that Dallas Gibson and RMC, trading as Icarus College, were providing the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams to Icarus College students over the Icarus College website.
5 The applicants' case was that, in about April 2004, the respondents infringed the applicants' copyright in the 800 practice questions and answers contained in MedEntry's practice exams by making available, offering for sale, or selling 45 practice exams, online via RMC's website.
She said that "[t]his involved not only having 44 questions of a section 1 type and 36 questions of a section 2 type in each exam, but also striking a balance of questions within each section of the exam so that the MedEntry [e]xams would resemble the UMAT structure as far as possible".
Where, in an action under this section: (a) an infringement of copyright is established; and (b) the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard to: (i) the flagrancy of the infringement; and 
 (ia) the need to deter similar infringements of copyright; and 
 (ib) the conduct of the defendant after the act constituting the infringement or, if relevant, after the defendant was informed that the defendant had allegedly infringed the plaintiff's copyright; and 
 (ii) whether the infringement involved the conversion of a work or other subject-matter from hardcopy or analog form into a digital or other electronic machine-readable form; and 
 (iii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of the infringement; and 
 (iv) all other relevant matters; the court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In any event, Dallas Gibson also gave a different explanation, which was to the effect that he "created a new question without reference to the prior question" and the "questions evolved".
These organisations included the respondents' business, Australian Medical Entry Preparation Program ("AMEPP"), National Institute of Education ("NIE"), and "Agoneyes", which was the trading name of a Mr Ryan Schulman.
166 Having regard to Dallas Gibson's evidence, and to the evidence of Ann and Edward Boyapati, I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants as opposed to Ryan Schulman, Michael Cobucci or anyone else.
Relying on Concrete Pty Ltd v Parramatta Design &amp; Developments Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 55 ; (2006) 229 CLR 577 (" Concrete ") at 595-596 per Kirby and Crennan JJ, they argued that this "might be said to give rise to an implied licence or right based on industry practice to 'borrow' or reproduce such material (even though it is accepted that there was no direct or other contractual relationship between the applicants and the respondents in relation to the material)".
They alleged that the following representations were made by placing the logos of third party organisations on the MedEntry website: (1) the organisations supported MedEntry or MedEntry's or Anzie's materials; (2) MedEntry and/or Anzie has or have a connection with the organisations; and (3) MedEntry and/or Anzie is or are sponsored, approved, or licensed to use the logos of the organisations.
31 Ann Boyapati also said that she "[had] learned to keep an eye out for material that might form the basis of, or the inspiration for, a question or series of questions" and that she "actively searched for such materials in libraries, newspapers, journals and on the Internet".
33 Ann Boyapati stated that, in compiling the MedEntry exams, she reviewed the collected materials and, in consultation with Edward and Ray, selected items appropriate for inclusion in the MedEntry exams on the basis that "they had the potential to be created into a question that would simulate the UMAT effectively in terms of style and content".
MedEntry's practice exams were, so the applicants said, original 'literary works' within the meaning of s 10 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("Copyright Act").
148 In final submissions, the cross-claimants also argued that, if the name "Medical Entrance" was merely descriptive of the cross-claimants' business services, then so too was the name "MedEntry".
In cross-examination, he said that he had subsequently attended UMAT courses presented by Dallas Gibson in 2003 and 2004, and had done Dallas Gibson's UMAT practice exams in 2003.
55 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the works in suit, even in compact disc format, contained copyright notices, including the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, he purchased the questions and answers from which he compiled the 45 Icarus College practice exams from a person describing himself as a sociology student at RMIT by the name of Minh Van Tran, in the belief that Mr Van Tran was the true author of them.
Their claim essentially concerns an alleged infringement of copyright in 800 questions and answers in certain practice exams that MedEntry sold as part of a preparation course for candidates for the Undergraduate Medicine &amp; Health Sciences Admission Test ("UMAT").
There was evidence that when the respondents purchased questions and answers from third parties, they also obtained tax invoices or receipts from the sellers, notwithstanding that Dallas Gibson said that he was "not in the habit of asking for receipts".
Such a reader would have understood the publication to assert that the "warning" contained "false and misleading comments" about the Boyapatis and that the accusations against them were "illogical and irresponsible".
The gist of the applicants' complaint in these proceedings was that their copyright had been infringed by the respondents' reproduction, via the Icarus College website, of the 800 questions and answers principally created by Ann Boyapati for sections 1 and 2 of MedEntry's practice exams.
Mr Olsson stated that he had been informed that Dallas Gibson alleged that "examination questions prepared by his college were plagiarized by a person or persons known to Mr Gibson".
MedEntry sues Dallas Gibson --- 7/11/2004 -26 
 MedEntry has launched legal action in the Federal Court of Australia suing Dallas Gibson of Icarus College for breach of copyright.
73 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton also said that she asked Dallas Gibson "whether the questions were good questions".
Mr Olsson agreed, and indeed it was clear to see, that many of the MedEntry questions were closer to the pre-existing source questions than were the cross-claim works in suit and that it was therefore more likely that the MedEntry questions were based on the source questions than the cross-claim works in suit.
182 The third publication was defamatory of Dallas Gibson, in so far as it stated that he had "blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own".
177 I accept the Boyapatis' evidence and, in particular, I accept Ann Boyapati's evidence that the relevant audience (prospective UMAT preparation course students) would have understood that the second publication concerned Ryan Schulman and not the cross-claimants.
In particular, they alleged that the cross-respondents engaged in passing off MedEntry's business for the cross-respondents' business; MedEntry's business as having the respondents' sponsorship or approval; and MedEntry's goods and services as those of the respondents.
Having regard to the fact that Ms Fsadni's account of her conversation with Dallas Gibson is supported by a note made by her at the time, I accept her account in preference to Dallas Gibson's account.
Dallas Gibson also said that Mr Van Tran stated that he provided the questions and answers in response to a notice that Dallas Gibson had posted at the RMIT.
23 The copyright in a literary work is infringed by a person "who, not being the owner of the copyright, and without the licence of the owner of the copyright, does in Australia, or authorizes the doing in Australia of, any act comprised in the copyright": see s 36(1).
Pursuant to s 10 , as applicable at the relevant time, "material form", in relation to a work, included "any form (whether visible or not) of storage from which the work ... or a substantial part of the work ... can be reproduced".
65 Accepting that Mr Van Tran existed and Dallas Gibson's account of his meeting with him is correct as far as it goes, I reject the respondents' submission that there was nothing about the transaction that should have put Dallas Gibson on notice that he might be buying material pirated from a competitor.
In some of the Icarus College practice exams, the sequence of questions was the same as in the MedEntry practice exams whilst in others, there were identical questions, or series of questions which were the same as the MedEntry practice exam questions.
49 Drummond J also referred to Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell &amp; Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 at 120 per Goff J and Warwick Film Productions Ltd v Eisinger [1969] 1 Ch 508 at 524-525 per Plowman J, both of which supported the proposition that a work might be an original work in which copyright subsisted, even though infringing copyright in an earlier work because it is in part a copy of a substantial part of the earlier copyright work.
Finally, the cross-claimants sought an order under s 88 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Trade Marks Act ") that the word "MEDENTRY" be cancelled or removed as Australian Trade Mark No 1032625.
72 In her witness statement, Ms Hanh Ton stated that, on or about 25 May 2004 in Dallas Gibson's home office, she was introduced by Dallas Gibson to Mr Van Tran.
His evidence was that the certain questions and answers (in the cross-claim works in suit) "look[ed] to be of the same style to the questions [he] reviewed in ... 2001" and that he recognised some four questions.
Ann Boyapati said in cross-examination that she thought "the purpose of the publications which refer to Mr Gibson were to clear the air and to make people understand that some unfair accusations were being made against MedEntry and to clear our reputation more than anything else".
The applicants submitted that the respondents' assertion that Dallas Gibson genuinely believed Mr Van Tran was the true author of the questions and answers that Dallas Gibson acquired from him was not credible.
69 It must be borne in mind that, although Dallas Gibson had been notified of the fact that the Icarus College practice exams were the same as the MedEntry practice exams in late June and July 2004, he did not take the infringing material down from the Icarus College website until mid August 2004.
In a witness statement adopted at the trial, Edward Boyapati said that he had "long held an interest in aptitude and intelligence testing" and that "[m]uch of [his] interest ... has been self-taught through reading books and other academic materials".
I accept that, as Ann and Ray Boyapati said, each compact disc was marked with a copyright notice that identified "MedEntry" as the copyright owner.
18 Edward, Ann and Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, for some years prior to December 2003, Edward had collected questions and answers for use in aptitude tests, as well as other material from which such questions and answers might be created.
Ray Boyapati also said that, in the early stage, his role was "primarily [in] setting up the website and other related IT tasks", although he subsequently took responsibility for preparing section 3 of each of the MedEntry practice exam (which was not part of the works in suit).
I would not regard Mr Spijer's evidence alone as sufficient to exclude the possibility that, as Edward Boyapati's notes indicated, at the relevant time he spoke to a representative of ACNEM who gave him permission to put up the logo on the MedEntry website.
144 Since the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" descriptively and did not, in any event, trade under these words alone, I reject the proposition that the words "Medical Entrance" had become relevantly associated with them by the end of 2003.
167 Although the Boyapatis admitted that the "UMAT preparation course" mentioned in first line of the first paragraph was a reference to Dallas Gibson, I doubt that an ordinary reasonable reader would have understood the passage in this way.
Ms Fsadni also gave evidence in which she said that, in early December 2003, a man who called himself "Dallas" wanted to leave a message for Ray Boyapati, which he dictated to her over the phone.
She said that, to the extent she incorporated this material, she "selected these materials from among all the materials that [her] father and [she] had collected", "based on how appropriately [she] considered that they would fit within the structure of a sample UMAT exam".
This was because Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy commenced on 18 October 2000 and ended on 19 October 2003: see Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ("Bankruptcy Act"), s 149(4).
When asked in cross-examination, however, whether she thought there might be something amiss with Mr Van Tran's material, she said: "[t]he questions, I am not concerned, because Dallas look after that ...
(2) A plaintiff is not entitled by virtue of this section to any damages or to any other pecuniary remedy, other than costs, if it is established that, at the time of the conversion or detention: 
 (a) the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that copyright subsisted in the work or other subject-matter to which the action relates;
 (b) where the articles converted or detained were infringing copies --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that they were not infringing copies; or
 (c) where an article converted or detained was a device used or intended to be used for making articles --- the defendant believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that the articles so made or intended to be made were not or would not be, as the case may be, infringing copies.
1 In 2004, Ann and Ray Boyapati, with some assistance from Edward Boyapati, operated a business under the name "MedEntry".
Dallas Gibson stated at the trial that, as at the date of this publication, and for some time previously, Icarus College was a registered training organisation ("RTO") in Australia offering a Government approved course in preparation for studies in health sciences.
Ms Tyler could say no more than that the questions she typed up were of a "similar style" to those that Dallas Gibson's solicitors had given her for identification.
Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she had independently compiled the 160 questions and answers the subject of the cross-claim, without reference to Dallas Gibson.
Ultimately, the correct answer to this question does not matter, because, assuming Mr Van Tran did in fact present himself to Dallas Gibson as he claimed, the "innocent infringement" defence is nonetheless not made out.
His evidence was that he assisted Ann by collecting additional "stimulus material that would form the basis of questions for section 2 of the practice exams".
In his witness statement, he said that "[a]lthough [he] cannot exactly recall each and every question, [he is] able to say that the questions and answers generally look identical to the questions and answers [he] reviewed in ... 2000".
87 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, in September 2003, he "sold [his] entire portfolio of software, notes and interests in [his] business" to RMC.
The term "property" for the purposes of ss 58 and 116 is defined broadly in s 5 of the Bankruptcy Act to mean "real or personal property of every description, whether situate in Australia or elsewhere, and includes any estate, interest or profit, whether present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to any such real or personal property".
This provision treats a copyright owner as if the copyright owner were also the owner of the infringing articles: see Polygram Pty Ltd v Golden Editions Pty Ltd (No 2) (1997) 38 IPR 451 (" Polygram ") per Lockhart J.
Where, in an action for infringement of copyright, it is established that an infringement was committed but it is also established that, at the time of the infringement, the defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the act constituting the infringement was an infringement of the copyright, the plaintiff is not entitled under this section to any damages against the defendant in respect of the infringement, but is entitled to an account of profits in respect of the infringement whether any other relief is granted under this section or not.
It was supported by those source materials she was able to produce; by some handwritten notes prepared by her when she was writing the questions for section 2 of the MedEntry practice exams; and by working documents that grouped draft questions for subsequent inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
In relation to Mr Shi's email, Dallas Gibson stated in his witness statement that he replied saying "that it was impossible".
When asked whether she was concerned that Mr Van Tran's questions might be pirated from someone else, she said "[a]t the time I wasn't thinking that at all".
85 Dallas Gibson's evidence was that a large part of RMC's business was preparing Year 12 students for the UMAT.
35 Ann Boyapati gave her evidence, particularly concerning her involvement with the MedEntry business, the creation of the works in suit, and her dealings with Dallas Gibson, in a generally forthright way.
He said that this material might consist of "questions, graphs, tables, and illustrations, articles, sample questions or stimuli that may form the basis of a question that could be used in some form of aptitude or intelligence test".
(1A) In an action for conversion or detention, a court may grant to the owner of the copyright all or any of the remedies that are available in such an action as if: 
 (a) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the infringing copy since the time the copy was made; or
 (b) the owner of the copyright had been the owner of the device since the time when it was used or intended to be used for making infringing copies.
According to Ann Boyapati's evidence, she assisted Ann in the preparation of the questions and answers in section 2 , by discussing topics, reading questions, and making and suggesting amendments to them.
Dallas Gibson explained, both orally and in a witness statement, that he considered the five possible answers format to be useful because "it forces students to train to read faster and think faster than [for] the actual UMAT test itself".
Mr Macaulay said that determining the authenticity of the files recovered from the floppy disk can be "quite complex" and that he did not do it due to "complexity, and budget and time constraints".
165 At about this time, Dallas Gibson's own website enjoined others to be "[b]e wary of one-man shows with fictitious testimonials".
The public benefit lay in seeking to remove the doubt and confusion brought about by the "warning" on the cross-claimants' website amongst prospective students as to the copyist's identity, and as to the identity of the actual authors of the practice exams that students might buy.
162 Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati each gave evidence that, at the time of this publication, MedEntry was under attack from other participants in the UMAT preparation course market and the first publication was intended to deal with these challenges.
Furthermore, David Wilson, solicitor for the Boyapatis, deposed that he had received the course materials that Dallas Gibson said he and RMC supplied to Ray and Ann Boyapati in 2001 and 2003 from the cross-claimants' solicitor pursuant to a notice to produce.
In s 10 , the word "communicate" is defined as "make available online or electronically transmit (whether over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material substance or otherwise) a work or other subject-matter".
Where no true innuendo is pleaded and the published words clearly related to the plaintiff, the issue of libel or no libel can be determined by asking whether hypothetical referees --- Lord Selborne's reasonable men ... or Lord Atkin's right thinking members of society generally ... or Lord Reid's ordinary men not avid for scandal ... --- would understand the published words in a defamatory sense.
16 Ann and Ray Boyapati registered the name "MedEntry" as a business name in early 2004.
76 The respondents challenged the applicants' dealing with certain evidence, saying in written submissions that it was "suspicious that the applicants appear to have deliberately destroyed potentially relevant evidence and refused to discover it or otherwise make it available".
In cross-examination, he said that he did not observe any copyright notice on Mr Van Tran's files because, first of all, he only had an "extremely quick look".
62 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that, on or about 25 May 2004, Mr Van Tran came to his home office in Deer Park, where he showed him the questions, which were then stored on two compact discs.
In her witness statement, she said that, in compiling the questions, she reproduced only a very few verbatim from her father's collection and that, in most instances, she amended existing questions so as to make them more appropriate for inclusion in MedEntry's exams.
He said that he created these 160 questions and answers ("the cross-claim works in suit") during the period between August 2000 and December 2000: see cross-claim at [27].
Further, according to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the laptop he had then because, on his evidence, he either "discarded" it or, according to his affidavit of 25 July 2006, it was stolen.
She gave evidence too that, between December 2003 and April 2004, Ray and Edward Boyapati also identified and collected materials to assist her preparation of sections 1 and 2 of the MedEntry exams.
He stated that he had "devised, adapted and modified many methods of teaching" and described the Icarus College training techniques, course materials and software as "unique".
Dallas Gibson said in cross-examination that he ran his own Internet forum in the early 2000s, called "Talk UMAT".
The grant of relief for conversion is, however, subject to the proviso in 116(1C) --- that the "court is not to grant any relief to the owner of the copyright in an action for conversion ... if the relief that the court ... proposes to grant under section 115 is, in the opinion of the court, a sufficient remedy".
I accept this submission and that neither Mr Peck's nor Dallas Gibson's evidence established any relevant loss.
Relevantly, in the trade marks context, the cross-claimants have not made out a case that the name "MedEntry" lacked distinctiveness and for this reason was incapable of distinguishing the cross-respondents' services or goods as s 41 of the Trade Marks Act required.
"MedEntry" is more than just a short form of "Medical Entrance".
Furthermore, I reject the cross-claimants' submission that they would appear to have lost business to the cross-respondents on account of the cross-respondents' use of the name "MedEntry".
154 By way of defence to this and other attacks on them, so the cross-respondents said, Edward Boyapati wrote the following notice, which Ray Boyapati put up on MedEntry's website on 28 March 2004.
Although his evidence concerning the ADA was imprecise, I understood Edward Boyapati's evidence in cross-examination to be that he received the ADA's consent in the same way as he had received the consent of the other organisations.
147 On 2 December 2004, Ray and Ann Boyapati applied for trade mark registration of the word "MEDENTRY" in class 41, with an acceptance date of 14 March 2005.
Section 58(6) provides that, in this context, "after-acquired property" in relation to a bankrupt means "property that is acquired by, or devolves on, the bankrupt on or after the date of the bankruptcy, being property that is divisible amongst the creditors of the bankrupt".
Further, there was in the circumstances no basis for the cross-claimants' assertion that, by their adoption of the name "MedEntry", the cross-respondents misrepresented that their business was the same as, or relevantly associated with, the cross-claimants' business.
In cross-examination, Ann Boyapati said that "given what was happening at the time, I would say people would understand [this] to mean Ryan Schulman".
The evidence established that the cross-claimants used the words "Medical Entrance" in identifying their business but that this use was essentially descriptive of the services the business provided.
I would also direct that within 14 days the applicants/cross-respondents file and serve written submissions as to: (1) their position with respect to the application of ss 116(1C) and (1D) of the Copyright Act; (2) the considerations that would support an exercise of discretion in favour of an award of additional damages under s 115(4) of the Copyright Act ; and (3) any question of costs that they consider should be dealt with at this stage of the proceeding.
I accept that, as the applicants submitted, this is not the kind of response that might ordinarily be expected from a person in Dallas Gibson's position had Mr Shi's claim come as a surprise.
By way of explanation, Dallas Gibson claimed that the possibility of obtaining a tax deduction for the price paid to Mr Van Tran "never crossed [his] mind".
Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati gave evidence that MedEntry and Anzie also bought sets of questions from students, usually in blocks of 10 or 20.
This is so notwithstanding Dallas Gibson's evidence that he also conducted an Internet forum at the relevant time and that the first line of the publication was intended to refer to him.
I am not satisfied that the cross-claimants have discharged the onus of proof that, so far as the ordinary reasonable reader was concerned, the first line of the first paragraph in its ordinary and natural meaning identified the cross-claimants' UMAT preparation course as opposed to another provider's UMAT preparation course.
In any event, given Edward Boyapati's contemporaneous handwritten notes, I am disposed to prefer his evidence to Mr Spijer's evidence.
He could not say whether the questions given him by Dallas Gibson's solicitors were identical to the questions that he had considered in 2000.
Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he had received telephone calls, emails and other correspondence from businesses and prospective students who had mistaken the cross-claimants' business with MedEntry.
As we have seen, Dallas Gibson's evidence was that, three years' earlier, he had paid $1,500 in cash for the 800 questions and answers.
The cross-claimants claimed that Dallas Gibson assigned the copyright in these 160 questions and answers to RMC in September 2003.
Her evidence was that, in creating the questions, she "generally started with an idea that was inspired by books, newspapers, journals and university resources ... as well as based on [her] recollection of the 2003 UMAT and ... discussions with others".
In one account, he said that Ms Jo-Anne Tyler, who operated the Drummond Street Business Centre, typed up some "notes" for him; that he copied the notes from his laptop to a grey floppy disk for safe keeping; and that he gave the grey floppy disk to his solicitors, Middletons, in response to a request by them in mid 2005 for relevant documents.
Natalie Savin of Arthritis Victoria, a witness called by the cross-claimants, agreed in cross-examination that, although she knew nothing of the giving of this consent, "[t]here are people who have left the organisation and they may have chosen to give an authority" to use the organisation's logo.
Daan Spijer of ACNEM, a witness called by the cross-claimants, said that, when he became aware in May 2005 that ACNEM's logo was being used on the MedEntry website, he asked that it be taken down on the basis that MedEntry had no permission to use it.
When shown a letter from his own solicitors, Gibson Legal, to Mr Macaulay, dated 17 October 2006, he said "this is the first I have seen of this ever in my life" notwithstanding that the letter was an exhibit to his second witness statement.
He said that he received an email dated 1 April 2005 from a representative of RWAV granting permission to use their logo on "promotional material produced to promote RWAV sponsorship of 15 Platinum Packages of MedEntry available to rural students".
If the ordinary reasonable reader did understand the words in the first line of the publication to refer to the cross-claimants, this would have been because he or she knew about the "warning" that they had published on the Icarus College website.
It is not entirely clear whether, on Dallas Gibson's version of events, he claimed to have acquired copyright in the cross-claim works in suit before or after his bankruptcy in October 2000.
63 According to Dallas Gibson, he no longer had the material he purchased from Mr Van Tran, because he threw away the two compact discs Mr Van Tran gave him after copying the files to his laptop and loading them onto the learning management system of the Icarus College webserver.
9 On 10 July 2006, the Court ordered that, save in relation to any questions concerning quantum of damages or account of profits on each party's copyright claims and save in relation to any expert evidence concerning the quantification of damages arising on the trade practices and passing off claims, the matter was to proceed to trial.
108 Dr Stitt, who was a physician educator, had consulted Dallas Gibson in or about late 2000 "to assist [him] in recruiting students for prospective entry into the new Samoan Medical School".
There was little other evidence relating to the reputation of the cross-claimants in the use of the name "Medical Entrance": see also [144]-[145] below.
In their defence to the cross-claim, they alleged that, since Dallas Gibson was made bankrupt with effect from 18 October 2000 until 19 October 2003, there could be no effective assignment of copyright to RMC in September 2003 when he purported to effect the assignment.
Assuming Edward Boyapati sent the emails in June 2004 and the letter, there is nonetheless no evidence that permits me to determine one way or another whether Dallas Gibson received them.
119 In further support of their cross-claim, RMC and Dallas Gibson argued that, from at least 1 January 2005, MedEntry and Anzie had made representations to the public in trade or commerce that were misleading or deceptive in breach of ss 52 , 53 (c) and 53 (d) of the TPA.
They said that they published the statements in dispute on the MedEntry website in response to the attacks being made against them by Dallas Gibson and other UMAT preparation course providers.
Dated: 2 July 2008
 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr A J Ryan 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Deacons 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr M Gronow 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: William &amp; Tran Lawyers 
 Date of Final Submissions: 8 May 2007 
 Date of Judgment: 2 July 2008 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/995.html
In a third witness statement, Dallas Gibson stated that he had made further unsuccessful attempts to find Mr Van Tran through RMIT and had personally visited a number of addresses at which Mr Van Tran might have been residing.
As part of this, they said they purchased the 800 questions and answers from a Minh Van Tran on or about 25 May 2004; and, at the time of the infringement, they were not aware and had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that they were infringing the applicants' copyright.
He was evasive when questioned about these differing accounts and said that the "discarded" laptop was not the same as the "stolen" laptop.
She stated that she found test number 8 "in the garage in the box", "along with a whole lot of other stuff".
I am also satisfied that Dallas Gibson authorised RMC's infringing conduct within the meaning of s 36 of the Copyright Act .
According to Ray and Edward Boyapati, the problem, as the Boyapatis perceived it, was that Ryan Schulman's forum carried laudatory comments about Schulman's course and adverse comments about other UMAT preparation courses, including their own, without disclosing that Schulman was moderating the forum.
92 As already noted, Dallas Gibson gave evidence that he wrote the 160 questions and answers the subject of his cross-claim in 2000.
67 Dallas Gibson gave evidence that the applicants did not notify him of the asserted breach of copyright until he received a formal letter of demand from their then solicitors in late October 2004.
The basis for this part of their cross-claim (as explained by the cross-claimants' counsel in opening) was that the trade mark ought not to have been registered because the cross-claimants' reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" was likely to deceive or cause confusion as at the date of application for registration.
The action relates to the copying and sale by Icarus College in early 2004 of practice exams authored by MedEntry.
She said that Dallas Gibson asked her to pay Mr Van Tran $1500 in cash for some UMAT training questions, which she did.
In particular, the assumption that was fundamental to his report --- that the cross-claimants' business income would fall from 2005-2006 levels on account of MedEntry's activities --- was based entirely on RMC's advice to that effect.
In deciding whether to grant relief for conversion and in assessing the amount of damages payable, the court's attention is directed to the factors in s 116(1D) of the Copyright Act , to which it may have regard: see generally Sony Entertainment (Australia) Ltd v Smith [2005] FCA 228 ; (2005) 64 IPR 18 at 34 per Jacobson J and Polygram (1997) 38 IPR 451 at 453-454 per Lockhart J.
34 Throughout the process of preparing for and drafting the practice exams, Ann Boyapati stated that she "had in mind the need to reflect the structure of the UMAT".
She stated that she had looked at certain questions and answers (within the cross-claim works in suit) and that they were the "same or similar" as the documents she viewed during the course in 2001.
70 Further, Dallas Gibson's evidence in cross-examination concerning his failure to observe any copyright notices was unbelievable.
(i) A compilation will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has exercised skill, judgment or knowledge in selecting the material for inclusion in the compilation ... or in presenting or arranging the material ... (ii) In addition, a compilation of factual information will ordinarily be an original literary work for copyright purposes if the compiler has undertaken substantial labour or incurred substantial expense in collecting the information recorded in the compilation.
The respondents cited Desktop and Autodesk Inc v Dyason [1992] HCA 2 ; (1992) 173 CLR 330 in support of the proposition that there could be no originality in a work that derived "from other copyright sources without permission (or acknowledgement)".
Only four of the 45 Icarus College practice exams contained none of the questions and answers appearing in MedEntry's practice exams.
187 Edward and Ann Boyapati gave evidence, which I accept, that the Icarus College website claim was not true because there was at least one other RTO in Australasia offering UMAT training --- namely, NIE.
3 The Boyapatis (including Dr Nimi Boyapati), Ace Umat, and Anzie Pty Ltd ("Anzie") are also cross-respondents.
In early 2004, Dallas Gibson blatantly plagiarized MedEntry's practice exams and sold them as his own.
83 Dallas Gibson alleged that he created 160 of the 800 questions and answers constituting the works in suit on the applicants' claim.
The warning also suggested that the MedEntry's services involved the unlawful use of his systems and intellectual concepts and that students enrolling in MedEntry courses, and who purchased the MedEntry notes, might lose their fees.
On the contrary, I infer from the evidence that, at the time of the infringing acts, Dallas Gibson either knew or strongly suspected that Mr Van Tran had provided him with pirated material.
Dallas Gibson's evidence was that three or four days' later he spent about half an hour looking at the questions.
When the cross-respondents began their business in early 2004, the cross-claimants did not have a sufficient reputation in the name "Medical Entrance" to support their passing off claim.
When asked about this in cross-examination, Dallas Gibson was evasive, saying the laptop was "discarded" though he could not recall when.
Dallas Gibson and RMC took the steps that ensured that the works in suit were communicated to the public via the Icarus College website, or were reproduced in material form, in the course of the business operated by them.
(a) logical reasoning and problem-solving (section 1 --- 44 questions);
(b) interaction skills and understanding people (section 2 --- 36 questions); and
(c) abstract, non-verbal reasoning (section 3 --- 30 questions).
Since the cross-claimants' use of the name "Medical Entrance" is essentially descriptive, they bore a heavy onus to show that the name had gained a secondary meaning referring specifically to the goods and services of their business.
Dallas Gibson responded to the Tam email with the comment "HOW WOULD I KNOW?
"
104 It became increasingly plain at the trial that Dallas Gibson was simply making up much of his evidence as he went along, in order to support his copyright infringement cross-claim.
I accept that, as counsel for the cross-respondents said, the cross-respondents would have made a different answer at trial if the cross-respondents had understood the "distinctiveness" of the mark to have been seriously in issue.
In determining whether or not a person has authorised the doing in Australia of any act comprised in the copyright in a work, without the licence of the copyright owner, the Copyright Act directs that a number of matters be taken into account: see s 36(1A).
These exams were headed "MedEntry UMAT Practice Exam [1-10] --- 2004".
Ann Boyapati was principally responsible for the 800 questions and answers in sections 1 and 2 , although Ray and Edward Boyapati assisted her to a limited extent.
81 Having made out their copyright infringement claim, the applicants have established an entitlement to relief under s 115(2) of the Copyright Act , the respondents having failed in their innocent infringement defence under s 115(3).
32 Ann Boyapati's evidence was that she wrote many questions and answers for sections 1 and 2 from scratch.
178 On 7 November 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a third commentary, which Ray Boyapati posted on MedEntry's website.
In his second witness statement, he stated that the questions in the cross-claim works in suit were "identical" to those he authored in 2000.
124 Edward Boyapati said that, in late 2004, he met with members of RWAV to develop "a scholarship arrangement" with them to support rural students aspiring to enter medicine.
(a) the major portion of the works in suit were created by being copied from unidentified third party sources, which were probably subject to copyright;
(b) where no third party copyright source was retained, her memory may be unreliable;
(c) many source materials were not retained, and the origins of those retained cannot be identified with certainty; 
(d) many sources cannot be identified now; and
(e) she cannot exclude there having been a source from which any particular question was copied.
Although Lord Pearce was dealing with the question of infringement where the copyright work was composed of non-original and original material, his Lordship, in the latter part of this statement, in my opinion, clearly accepted that copyright can exist in a compilation even though the compilation consists of partly pirated material and partly non-pirated material.
99 In the end, Mr Macaulay's evidence leads me to conclude that, in this case, the metadata cannot properly be regarded as reliable evidence supportive of either side's case.
The respondents did not suggest, however, that the July 2004 email (which disclosed the email address to which it was sent) was sent to an incorrect address and there would appear to be no reason why in the ordinary course Dallas Gibson would not have received it.
75 Ms Hanh Ton was clearly anxious to give evidence that would support and protect Dallas Gibson's position.
They registered this as a business name and Ray Boyapati established a website with the domain name "www.aceumat.com.au".
30 Ann Boyapati gave evidence that she was chiefly responsible for compiling MedEntry's practice exams.
192 Having regard to the orders made on 10 July 2006, I acknowledge that, if I had taken a different view of the cross-claimants' case and damages were in issue, a question might have arisen as to whether and, if so, to what extent, the cross-claimants might have sought to rectify gaps in their evidence concerning their claimed economic loss.
19 I accept the evidence given by Ann, Ray and Edward Boyapati that they began to prepare sample practice exams between December 2003 and around 24 April 2004.
97 If Ms Tyler had typed the questions up and saved them to the floppy disk said to have been handed to Dallas Gibson, then presumably she would have been identified in the metadata as the author.
A person whose good name is brought into question is granted qualified privilege in making a response provided the person to whom the response is made is "proper to receive it": see Mowlds v Fergusson [1940] HCA 38 ; (1946) 64 CLR 206 at 214 per Dixon J.
There are numerous authorities that can be cited in support of the statements in this passage: see, for example, Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 (" Ladbroke (Football) Ltd ") at 277-278 per Lord Reid, 286-287 per Lord Hodson, 289-290 per Lord Devlin, and 292-293 per Lord Pearce.
He agreed that the purpose of the call was to tell Ann Boyapati not to use the word "UMAT" in a domain name.
He also stated in cross-examination that he had made enquiries of ACNEM's staff and "none of them had any conversation which was relevant to this at all".
Whilst the evidence established that she derived the balance of the questions and answers from third party sources, she used these sources in different ways, selecting, adapting and modifying them to varying degrees to suit her purpose of compiling sets of practice exams that simulated the UMAT.
He also created some questions that Ann reviewed and edited, and proofed Ann's and Ray's work.
The cross-claimants argued that the registered trade mark number 1032625, "MEDENTRY", ought to be revoked pursuant to s 88 of the Trade Marks Act .
111 In cross-examination, she also said that she attended an UMAT preparation course conducted by Dallas Gibson in 2005, although she was not entirely certain of the year.
In cross-examination, Dallas Gibson accepted that at least some of the cross-respondents' questions were closer to what was probably the original source than his questions.
143 The evidence established that neither of the cross-claimants had traded under the name "Medical Entrance" alone.
She stated that, in 2001, she too attended a two-day UMAT preparation course run by Dallas Gibson and that she had been given two practice tests in hard copy at this time.
The materials that the cross-claimants gave Ray and Ann Boyapati as students in their course had five possible answers whilst the cross-claim works in suits had four possible answers.
Dallas Gibson and RMC uploaded the works in suit onto the Icarus College website as part of their own course materials for their own students.
It was not in contest that, in 2000 and thereafter, Dallas Gibson was using these sorts of questions and answers in his UMAT preparation course.
In around May 2004, in addition to selling the practice exams, Ray and Ann Boyapati conducted a series of workshops for students who would sit the UMAT in 2004.
Section 1 consisted of 44 questions and answers on logical reasoning; section 2 consisted of 36 questions and answers on interaction skills; and section 3 , which is not presently material, was directed to non-verbal reasoning.
I reject this explanation, however, because there had been no suggestion until this point in the trial that there were two grey floppy disks and, in any event, Dallas Gibson proffered each explanations, when it was given, as an exhaustive account of how the relevant floppy disk had been created on the clear assumption that there was in fact only one grey floppy disk.
149 Furthermore, I note that, although the cross-claimants referred to s 41 of the Trade Marks Act in their pleading and skirted around s 41 in opening, they did not in truth seriously put a case of s 41 "lack of distinctiveness" at trial.
In all jurisdictions other than New South Wales, a trading corporation such as RMC may sue for defamation in so far as the imputations attack its commercial reputation and can generally be shown to have caused some financial harm: see RP Balkin and JLR Davis, Law of Torts (LexisNexis Butterworths Australia, 3 rd ed, 2004) ("Balkin and Davis") at p 563-564.
28 Inspection of the 45 Icarus College practice exams showed that, apart from some immaterial differences, the Icarus College practice exams contained all the 800 questions and answers in precisely the same terms as the works in suit.
I find that Dallas Gibson twice spoke with Dr Nimi Boyapati and left a message with her secretary, Ms Josephine Fsadni, in the terms set out in Ms Fsadni's note.
109 In summary, the evidence of these three witnesses, all of whom were credible, was that in 2000-2001 or thereafter, they had seen questions concerning the same or similar subject matter, or of the same style, as the 160 questions and answers that were the cross-claim works in suit.
She said that she was assisted by Edward and Ray Boyapati in writing a small proportion of the questions and answers, although she later amended some of their questions.
89 It seems probable (and it was not suggested otherwise) that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy ended on 19 October 2003 pursuant to s 149(4) of the Bankruptcy Act , as a consequence of automatic discharge consequent on the expiration of three years from the date he filed his statement of affairs.
Against Dallas Gibson, they alleged that he was knowingly concerned in and a party to RMC's contravention of s 52 and, by operation of s 75B, was also liable as a person involved in the contravention.
Once orders were received, it was Ray Boyapati's role to respond to and fill the orders by burning an encrypted version of MedEntry's exams onto a compact disc and mailing this to the customer.
In cross-examination, Dr Stitt stated that his review was limited to "test one section two questions", which related to ethics and communication.
Dallas Gibson sought to give evidence that his name and the cross-claimants' business had suffered as a result.
Hence, in making the 800 questions and answers available on line over the Internet, RMC and Dallas Gibson communicated the works to the public.
In his report, Mr Olsson stated that he had been sent "copies of a sample of questions ... as two blind sets".
172 Some time later, on 11 April 2004, Edward Boyapati wrote a further publication in the following form and Ray Boyapati posted it on the MedEntry webpage.
Edward Boyapati gave evidence as to how the logos came to appear on MedEntry's website.
Accordingly, copyright in the cross-claim works in suit (if it existed) vested in the trustee at the time Dallas Gibson became a bankrupt or as after-acquired property.
I do not, however, consider that this adequately answered the criticism that the cross-respondents' format was new when compared to Dallas Gibson's previous practice exams.
The Boyapatis' evidence was that "MedEntry" was a contraction for Medical Entry.
Dallas Gibson stated that, in 2005, he had engaged a private enquiry agent named Mr Hughes to find Mr Van Tran, but Mr Hughes' efforts were unsuccessful.
In his evidence at trial, Dallas Gibson referred to other private investigators but none was called to give evidence.
There was no evidence that the trustee in bankruptcy had assigned or transferred the copyright to Dallas Gibson since the discharge of his bankruptcy.
131 Edward Boyapati's notes indicated that, at the relevant time, he spoke to a representative of Novartis who gave him permission to put up its logo on the MedEntry website.
In his first witness statement adopted at trial, he stated that the cross-claim works in suit were "similar or identical" to those he had written in 2000.
Neither RMC nor Dallas Gibson had permission from any of the applicants to reproduce or use the MedEntry exams.
She agreed that the authors of UMAT and similar tests would make "a lot of use of third party sources that might turn out to be the same".
She stated that she did some work for Dallas Gibson in September 2000, although this was inconsistent with an account exhibited to her witness statement indicating that the work was done in May 2000.
64 Was Mr Van Tran a figment of Dallas Gibson's imagination as the applicants suggested?
116 In cross-examination, Mr Olsson said that it was necessary to see "the whole thing in the round to get a fuller picture of the degree to which text has been borrowed from one source rather than another".
13 As a consequence, in December 2003, Ann and Ray Boyapati decided to prepare their own sample questions and answers to sell to students intending to sit the UMAT in 2004.
(a) the importance to the market value of the article of the material that infringes the copyright;
 (b) the proportion the material that infringes copyright bears to the article;
 (c) the extent to which the material that infringes copyright may be separated from the article.
For the reasons already stated, the cross-claimants have failed to establish any particular reputation in the name "Medical Entrance".
It was, so Edward Boyapati said, up to Dallas Gibson to put up this reference on his own website.
Another provider of UMAT preparation courses used it too, in the name "Australian Medical Entrance Preparation Programme".
50 The respondents also submitted that the evidence showed that it was common for providers of preparation courses for the UMAT and the like to reproduce material from other copyright sources without permission or acknowledgment.
106 Mr Roumanos stated that he was a medical student at the University of Newcastle and that, in 2001, he had attended a two-day UMAT preparation course that Dallas Gibson taught.
20 In all, Ann and Ray Boyapati, assisted by Edward, created 10 practice exams, which they subsequently sold through the MedEntry business.
This would seem to follow logically from what the House of Lords had to say in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd to the effect that, so far as compilations of existing material are concerned, originality sufficient to attract copyright in a compilation can be found entirely in the work of selecting the material to be included in the compilation, as opposed to the work of reducing those selections to written form.
His Honour observed (at 316) that "the question is whether the compilation, looked at as an entity, is original: it is not proper to dissect the work into its parts, and by determining that the individual parts lack originality, to deny originality to the whole work".
45 The evidence established that Ann Boyapati created about half the questions and answers in the works in suit from scratch.
Ray Boyapati gave evidence that, at the time of trial, the going rate was $10 to $20 per question, depending on the quality of the questions.
88 The applicants contended, and I accept, that Dallas Gibson's bankruptcy created a fundamental impediment to this claim.
To make out the innocent infringement defence, the respondents relied on the evidence of Dallas Gibson and his partner, My Hanh Ton.
The case will be heard at the Commonwealth Law Courts (claim number V1289 --- 2004).