court_name
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
Actual Finishing Times.

judge_name
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
Actual Finishing Times.

plaintiff
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
A.

defendant
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
3.

hearing_year
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
Actual Finishing Times.

judgment_year
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
8.3 Delayed Reporting Time A.

charges
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
3.

verdict
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
B.

legal_basis
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
ADMINISTRATION 16.1.

appeal_information
candidate sentence: 1-9 April 2006 Recreation leave 10-14 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 15 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 16-17 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 18 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 19 April 2006 Pilot Licence Medical Check 19-20 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-24 April 2006 Domestic Days Off 25 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 26 April 2006 Rest Period 27 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 28 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 29 April 2006 Rest Period 30 April 2006 Flight Duty Period 1-6 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 7 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 8-9 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 9-10 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 11 May 2006 Rest Period 12-13 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 14-19 May 2006 Domestic Days Off 20 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 21-22 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 23 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 24-25 May 2006 Flight Duty Period 26-31 May 2006 Domestic Days Off Conclusions and consideration 
91 In my opinion, salaries paid by the applicant to aircrew who were residents of Australia, who were obliged to serve the applicant by operating Cathay Pacific Aircraft in any part of the world and on any routes, who had their Home Bases in Australia and whose salaries were paid into bank accounts in Hong Kong nominated by them, were not foreign earnings of persons engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6E) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6D)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period is less than 24 hours; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6D) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this subsection or subsection (6E)); 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); and 
 (c) at the beginning of the day before the commencement of the second foreign service period, the absentee credit balance of the person exceeded nil; 
 the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service.
(6C) Where: 
 (a) a person has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period (in this subsection called the 'first foreign service period') (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of subsection (6D) or (6E)); and 
 (b) at a time after the end of the first foreign service period, the person becomes engaged in foreign service for a further continuous period (in this subsection called the 'second foreign service period'); 
 there arises, at the end of each whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] : 
 (c) during the period commencing immediately after the end of the first foreign service period and ending immediately before the commencement of the second foreign service period; and 
 (d) on which the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained at the beginning of that day, is not less than 24 hours; 
 an absentee debit of 24 hours.
Section 23AG(6D), as introduced by that Act, permitted a 'first foreign service period' and a 'second foreign service period' to be treated as 'a continuous period during which the person was engaged in foreign service' where at the beginning of the second foreign service period the person had 'absentee credits' referable to the first foreign service period which exceeded the 'absentee debits' referable to the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period.
(2) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section if the amount is exempt from income tax in the foreign country only because of any of the following: 
(a) a law of the foreign country giving effect to a double tax agreement; (b) a double tax agreement; (c) provisions of a law of the foreign country under which income covered by any of the following categories is generally exempt from income tax; (i) income derived in the capacity of an employee; (ii) income from personal services; (iii) similar income; (d) the law of the foreign country does not provide for the imposition of income tax on one or more of the categories of income mentioned in paragraph (c); (e) a law of the foreign country corresponding to the International Organisations (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1963 or to the regulations under that Act; (f) an international agreement to which Australia is a party and that deals with: (i) diplomatic or consular privileges and immunities; or (ii) privileges and immunities in relation to persons connected with international organisations; (g) a law of the foreign country giving effect to an agreement covered by paragraph (f).
'(a) the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; and 
 (b) Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 , so far as that Part relates to: 
(i) this Act or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 ; or (ii) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; and 
 (c) Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; 
 except in Division 950 (Rules for interpreting this Act)' 
(f) In this context, the expression 'exempt income' as used in s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act is defined by s 995-1(1) of the 1997 Act as follows:
 '995-1(1) In this Act [an expression having the expanded meaning referred to above] , except so far as the contrary intention appears: 
... exempt income has the meaning given by section 6-20' 
(g) In s 6-20 of the 1997 Act 'exempt income' was defined, inter alia, as follows:
 '6-20(1) An amount of ordinary income or statutory income is exempt income if it is made exempt from income tax by a provision of this Act [which has the extended meaning referred to above] or another Commonwealth law.
(1A) A person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to have been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days if: 
(a) the person died at a time when he or she was engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of less than 91 days; and (b) he or she would have otherwise continued to be engaged in the foreign service; and (c) his or her continuous period of engagement in the foreign service would have otherwise been a period of at least 91 days.
Days of foreign service in second continuous period: 40 
 Added to foreign service days in the first period: 40 + 70 = 110 
 10/110 = 1/11 
 As absences do not exceed one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time, Jason's two periods of foreign service will be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service under subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B).
(3) If the income of a taxpayer of a year of income consists of an amount that is exempt from tax under this section (in this section called the "exempt amount" ) and other income, the amount of tax (if any) payable in respect of the other income is calculated using the formula: 
 where 
 "Notional gross tax" means the number of whole dollars in the amount of income tax that would be assessed under this Act in respect of the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if: 
 (a) the exempt amount were not exempt income; and 
(aa) if the exempt amount is a payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 --- the exempt amount (excluding any part of that amount that represented contributions made by the taxpayer) were assessable income of that taxpayer; and 
 (b) the taxpayer were not entitled to any rebate of tax.
foreign earnings means income consisting of earnings, salary, wages, commission, bonuses or allowances, or of amounts included in a person's assessable income under Division 13A, but does not include any payment, consideration or amount that: 
(a) is included in assessable income under Division 82 or Subdivision 83-295 or Division 301, 302, 304 or 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (b) is included in assessable income under Division 82 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 ; or (c) is mentioned in paragraph 82-135(e), (f), (g), (i) or (j) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 ; or (d) is an amount transferred to a fund, if the amount is included in the assessable income of the fund under section 295-200 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 .
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 
 ... 
&#8226; Paragraph 23(q) exempts foreign source income not otherwise mentioned above or hereunder (including salary and wages) from Australian income tax if tax on it is paid in the country of source; 
 Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 
&#8226; Section 14 of the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act 1953 - dividends, interest and royalties from other countries on which foreign tax is limited in terms of comprehensive taxation agreements that Australia has with those countries - these are subject to Australian tax and a credit is given for the foreign tax.
Comparison of key features of new law and current law New law Current Law Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service, will not break the period of foreign service provided the time away from foreign service is not greater than one-sixth of the number of days of foreign service at any time.
(6A) 2 or more periods in which a person has been engaged in foreign service are together taken to constitute a continuous period of foreign service until: 
 (a) the end of the last of the 2 or more periods; or 
(b) a time (if any), since the start of the first of the 2 or more periods, when the person's total period of absence exceeds 1/6 of the person's total period of foreign service; 
 whichever happens sooner.
'23 The following income shall be exempt from income tax:- 
 ... 
 (q) income ... derived by a resident from sources out of Australia and Papua New Guinea, where that income is not exempt from income tax in the country where it is derived ... 
 (qa) income ... from sources in Papua New Guinea from any office or employment ... where the income is not exempt from income tax under the income tax laws of Papua New Guinea ...' 
41 The concept of the 1936 Act is that all income is derived from some source having a geographical location or, at any rate, that it is possible to predicate of all income that it is so derived.
2.
 a) The applicant makes payments of salary and wages to its employees in connection with contracts of employment but the applicant is not an employer for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because: 
 b) The payments of salary or wages made by the applicant are not 'salary or wages' for the purposes of s.136(1) of the FBT Act because the payments are exempt income of the employees by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36, and accordingly, the payment of salary or wages are not payments from which the taxpayer is required to withhold amounts under the Pay-As-You-Go ('PAYG') withholding tax system in accordance with s.12-1 of Schedule 1 Part 2-5 of the TAA 
 c) Payments made by the applicant to its employees are exempt income by operation of s.23AG of ITAA36 insofar as the payments constitute remuneration in connection with contracts of employment which were performed by the applicant's employees who at all times in the relevant income year satisfied the requirement of a continuous period of not less than 91 days in foreign service for the purposes of ss.23AG(1), (6) and (6A).
(6) For the purposes of this section, a period during which a person is engaged in foreign service includes any period during which the person is, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that service: 
 (a) absent on recreation leave, other than: 
(i) leave wholly or partly attributable to a period of service or employment other than that foreign service; (ii) long service leave, furlough, extended leave or leave of a similar kind (however described); or (iii) leave without pay or on reduced pay; or 
 (b) absent from work because of accident or illness.
... 
 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a person shall be taken for the purposes of this section to be engaged on qualifying service on an approved project during any period during which: 
(a) the person is outside Australia and is engaged in the performance of personal services in connection with the approved project; (b) the person is travelling between Australia and the site of the approved project; (c) by reason of an incapacity for work due to accident or illness occurring while the person was, by virtue of paragraph (a) or (b), to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project, the person is absent from work; or (d) the person is on eligible leave, being leave that accrued in respect of a period during which the person was, by virtue of any of the proceeding paragraphs, to be taken to be engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
... 27 DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS ... 
 27.2 The maximum cumulative Duty Hour totals for Flight Crew members will not exceed: 
 A. Fifty five hours in any period of seven consecutive days, but may be increased to sixty hours in the event of Unforeseen Circumstances; and 
 [B.
 C. Ninety five hours in any period of fourteen consecutive days; and 
 D. One hundred and ninety hours in any period of twenty eight consecutive days; provided that for every FDP where the Local Time difference between the places at which the FDP starts and finishes is six hours or more, the individual Flight Crew member's twenty eight day maximum allowable cumulative total will be reduced by eight hours.
&#8226; provide that a period of foreign service will not end until absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service 
 &#8226; allow the exemption to potentially apply where a taxpayer dies during a period of foreign service before reaching the requisite 91 days 
 &#8226; reinstate eligibility for the exemption where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of Iraq's income tax system from 1 January 2003 to 30 April 2004.
162 of 2005) made it clear that s 23AG(6A) and (6B) were directed at preserving continuity in respect of a period of engagement in foreign service where the relevant employee took "time away" from his or her foreign service or "short breaks" from his or her foreign service or "absences", none of which terms sit comfortably with the situation of aircrew who derive their salaries from their service in the cockpits of aircraft and on the ground in numerous countries, including Australia and in international airspace as well.
No matter how long the further period lasts, it can never constitute a continuous period of foreign service with the first 2 periods of foreign service, because on the fourth day of the second absence the total period of absence is 1/5 of the total period of foreign service.
Total period of absence: 20 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 20/70 = 2/7 As this is more than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service (ie the further 40 days) may not be added to the first period of 70 days.
As the basic test for determining whether the whole or a proportion of foreign earnings is to be exempt relates to a continuous period during which a person is engaged in foreign service, a temporary absence, either within a continuing period of foreign service [sic] or between two or more periods of foreign service, could affect a person's exemption entitlement.
Provided the person is not absent from foreign service for a period in excess of his or her accrued absentee credit balance, the period of foreign service either side of the period of absence will together constitute a continuous period of foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.16 The definitions of 'total period of foreign service' and 'total period of absence' are only relevant for determining whether multiple periods of foreign service may be combined into a continuous period of foreign service.
"Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount (if any) remaining after deducting from so much of the other income as is assessable income: 
(d) any deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income that relate exclusively to that assessable income; and (e) so much of any other deductions (other than apportionable deductions) allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, may appropriately be related to that assessable income; and (f) the amount calculated using the formula in subsection (4).
95 I am unable to conclude that when a member of aircrew employed by the applicant and assigned by it to operate Cathay Pacific aircraft flying into or out of that member's Home Base or Preferred Port in Australia, he or she is engaged in service in a foreign country or is taking "time away" from foreign service or a "short break" from foreign service or an "absence".
In determining whether these two periods of foreign service constitute one continuous period of foreign service for the 91 continuous days test, he must determine whether the total period of absence exceeds one-sixth of his days of foreign service.
'136(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 " fringe benefit ", in relation to an employee, in relation to the employer of the employee, in relation to a year of tax, means a benefit: 
 (a) provided at any time during the year of tax; or 
 (b) provided in respect of the year of tax; 
 being a benefit provided to the employee or to an associate of the employee by: 
 (c) the employer; ... 
 ... 
 in respect of the employment of the employee... 
 ... 
 " employee ", means: 
 (a) a current employee; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employee 
 ... 
 current employee means a person who receives, or is entitled to receive, salary or wages.
These 2 periods of foreign service constitute a continuous period of foreign service, because the total period of absence is never more than 1/10 of the total period of foreign service.
(c) at all times during the total project period, the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project or was in Australia; the periods during the total project period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project shall together be taken to constitute a continuous period during which the person was engaged on qualifying service on the approved project.
(4) The formula referred to in paragraph (3)(f) is: 
 where: 
 "Apportionable deductions" means the number of whole dollars in the apportionable deductions allowable to the taxpayer in relation to the year of income; 
 "Other taxable income" means the amount that, apart from paragraph (3)(f), would be represented by the component "Other taxable income" in subsection (3); 
 "Notional gross taxable income" means the number of whole dollars in the amount that would have been the taxpayer's taxable income of the year of income if the exempt amount were not exempt income.
A For each crew member 
 The beginning, end and duration of each Duty Period or Flight Duty Period, and function performed during the period, duration of each Rest Period prior to a flight Duty or Reserve Duty period, dates of days off and cumulative totals of Duty.
...' 
71 It is apparent from the 'APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME' that flight crew members have their work obligations determined not by reference to a 9 am to 5 pm five day working week, with which many workers are familiar, but rather by reference to a maximum of 190 duty hours in any period of 28 consecutive days, with corresponding proportionate or generally similar limitations on the number of cumulative duty hours that may be worked in any period of fourteen consecutive days and in any period of seven consecutive days.
Total period of absence: 10 days 
 Days of foreign service in first period: 70 days (65 + 5) 
 10/70 = 1/7 As this is less than one-sixth, the next period of foreign service may be added.
101 If, in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, there were periods during which the salaries of the representative sample of pilots or some of them were exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act, but such salaries were not exempt from tax for the whole of the year, it would seem to me that benefits could only come within the definition of "fringe benefit" in s 136(1) of the FBT Act if the benefits were provided in respect of a period or periods of employment when the salaries paid were not exempt from tax in accordance with s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
36 In s 6(1) of the 1936 Act ' resident or resident of Australia ' was relevantly defined as follows:
 '6(1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears: 
 ... 
 resident or resident of Australia means: 
 (a) a person ... who resides in Australia and includes a person: 
(i) whose domicile is in Australia, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his permanent place of abode is outside Australia; (ii) who has actually been in Australia, continuously or intermittently, during more than one-half of the year of income, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that his usual place of abode is outside Australia and that he does not intend to take up residence in Australia; or ...' 
37 The parties are of the opinion that the provisions of s 23AG of the 1936 Act which are of most significance in this case are s 23AG(1), (6), (6A), (6B) and (7).
The days included in a total period of foreign service, at a particular time, are the foreign service days from the beginning of the first of the foreign service periods up until that time.
...' 
62 Section 23AF of the 1936 Act, to which reference was made in paragraphs 1.17 and 1.18 of the Explanatory Memorandum, relevantly provided:
 '23AF(1) Where a taxpayer, being a natural person, has been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project [an eligible project in the national interest approved as such by the Minister for Trade] for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any eligible foreign remuneration derived by the person that is attributable to the qualifying service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 91 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
'23AG(1) Where a resident, being a natural person, has been engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of not less than 365 days, any foreign earnings derived by the person from that foreign service is exempt from tax.
78 of 1988, provided for a period of discontinuity to be ignored if the period between the first foreign service period and the second foreign service period was less than 24 hours.
total period of foreign service , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was engaged in foreign service.
[Schedule 1, item 3, subsections 23AG(6A) and (6B)] 1.15 If the total days of absence exceed one-sixth of foreign service days at any time, an individual ceases to be engaged in a period of foreign service for the purposes of subsection 23AG(1).
When working in international airspace a member of the applicant's aircrew performing service for Cathay Pacific could not be said to be engaged in "service in a foreign country" in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of "foreign service" in s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
(6F) Where: 
(a) a person has derived foreign earnings during a year of income; and (b) at the time of making an assessment in respect of income of the person of the year of income, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, at a later time, circumstances will exist because of which those foreign earnings will be exempted from tax by this section; 
 the Commissioner may apply the provisions of this section as if those circumstances existed at the time of making the assessment.
'54 Fatigue of crew--- operator's responsibilities 
 (1) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit that aircraft to make a flight unless: 
 (a) he has established a scheme for the regulation of flight times for every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (b) the scheme is approved by the Chief Executive subject to such conditions as he thinks fit; and ... (c) either --- (i) the scheme is incorporated in the operations manual required by Article 25 of this Order, or (ii) in a case where an operations manual is not required by that Article the scheme is incorporated in a document, a copy of which has been made available to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew; and 
 (d) he has taken all such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the provisions of the scheme will be complied with in relation to every person flying in that aircraft as a member of its crew.
'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney' 
Another was headed:
 'Australian Base --- AUD Salary Applicable to Officers whose Base Administration Centre is Sydney who were employed by CPA prior to 1st April 1993' 
and a third was headed:
 'AUSTRALIAN BASED FREIGHTER AIRCREW ANNUAL BASIC SALARY 2006' 
 A separate question 
24 In opening the applicant's case, senior counsel for the applicant, Mr A H Slater QC said:
 'The issue which divides the parties is whether the income of pilots employed by the applicant is exempt from tax under section 23AG [of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the 1936 Act')].
1.13 The amendments allow two or more continuous periods of foreign service to be combined into a total foreign service period until an individual ceases to be engaged in foreign service, or the one-sixth rule is exceeded, whichever occurs first.
Jason's total foreign service period was therefore limited to 70 days once his absence exceeded one-sixth of his 70 days in foreign service (ie at day 12 of his total period of absence).
Time away from foreign service that does not constitute foreign service will not break the period of foreign service if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
The individual will begin a new period of foreign service when he or she next engages in foreign service and must determine anew whether that foreign service lasts for at least 91 continuous days.
23.5 Table "X" Duration of completed Duty Cycle in hours Maximum Local Time Difference from Home Base Local Time during Preceding Duty Cycle 
 more than 3 but less than 5 5 or more but less than 6 6 or more but less than 7 7 or more Greater than 48 up to 72 2 2 2 2 Greater than 72 up to 96 3 3 3 3 Greater than 96 up to 120 3 4 4 4 Greater than 120 up to 144 3 4 5 5 Greater than 144 3 4 5 6 23.6 Reduction of Recovery Period A.
Notwithstanding 28.1.A, on occasion may be Positioned to their Home Base on the seventh consecutive day (eighth consecutive day if the duty is extended to seven days), provided they are then allocated at least two consecutive DDOs; and C. Will have a minimum of two consecutive DDOs in any period of fourteen consecutive days following the previous two consecutive DDOs; and D. Will have a minimum of seven DDOs in any period of four consecutive weeks; and E. Will have an average of at least eight DDOs in each period of four consecutive weeks averaged over three such periods.
'23AG(3) An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section unless --- (a) the amount is not exempt from income tax in that country; and (b) if there is a liability for payment of income tax in that country in respect of that amount --- the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax has been or will be paid.
(5) Subsection (3) applies to a taxpayer in respect of income of a year of income as if any payment covered by section 83- 240 or 305 - 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 that related to the termination of employment that was made in respect of the taxpayer during that year of income were income of the taxpayer of that year of income that is exempt from tax under this section.
100 If, contrary to my opinion, the representative sample of pilots, or some of them, were engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee in the tax year 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, one could not determine whether, for the first quarter of the tax year, their respective salaries were exempt from tax without having an understanding of their several employment histories in the period 1 January to 31 March 2006.
1.14 When applying the one-sixth rule the numerator is the days absent from foreign service that do not constitute foreign service, and the denominator is the total number of days of foreign service.
(6B) In subsection (6A): 
 total period of absence , in relation to a particular time, means the number of days, in the period starting at the start of the first of the 2 or more periods and ending at that time, for which the person was not engaged in foreign service.
99 Activities undertaken in a period set aside for recreation and leisure eg a typical weekend for a Monday to Friday worker could take the form of a departure from the relevant foreign country in which foreign earnings are derived without breaking the continuity in the period of engagement in foreign service.
'3AA(3) Division 950 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (which contains rules for interpreting that Act) applies to Schedule 1 to this Act as if the provisions in that Schedule were provisions of that Act' 
Division 950 of the 1997 Act contained 'Rules for interpreting this Act' [where 'this Act' does not have the extended meaning for which s 995-1(1) provided].
61 In respect of the specific amendments to s 23AG the Explanatory Memorandum provided:
 'Chapter 1 - Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Outline of chapter 1.1 Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the operation of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) foreign employment income exemption [emphasis added].
(5) A person shall not be taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on a particular approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(c) during a period of incapacity for work unless the person is taken to have been engaged on qualifying service on that approved project by virtue of paragraph (3)(a), (b) or (d) during a period that commenced immediately after the incapacity ceased.
Detailed explanation of new law Simplification of section 23AG: the one-sixth rule 1.7 Section 23AG contains rules to allow individuals to take short breaks from foreign service without breaking a continuous period of foreign service.
(6B) For the purposes of this section, where a person has been engaged in foreign service for a whole day [meaning one of the 7 days of the week --- see (6J)] , there arises, at the end of that day, an absentee credit of the number of hours calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 31 X 24 334 
 unless the absentee credit balance of the person, ascertained immediately after the end of that day, would exceed 31 days.
Context of amendments 1.3 Section 23AG exempts foreign employment income of Australian resident individuals engaged in foreign service for a period of 91 continuous days or more (subject to some conditions).
This test will be replaced with a simpler and generally more generous rule that allows different foreign service periods to be aggregated, unless the period of absence that separates them exceeds one-sixth of the total number of days of foreign service at any time.
...' 
78 In respect of "Available Days" the industrial agreement relevantly provided:
 '15.1 An Available Day is a period at Home Base, free of all Duties, during which a crew member must be contactable for a specified period, and must be able to report for Duty at Home Base 10 hours after notification of a requirement.
The Bill will also exempt salary or wages earned overseas that is subject to tax in the country of source, where derived by an Australian resident in performing services overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months - a proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months with a credit being allowed for foreign tax paid on any amount not exempted.
When Jason recommences work for 40 days he will start a completely new period of foreign service and needs 91 days of service before any of his earnings for the period are exempt.
23.3 DDOs contained within a Recovery Period will count towards the overall provisions of DDOs specified in 28 provided that, where the Duty Cycle preceding the Recovery Period contained a maximum Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of six hours or more, then the first DDO within the Recovery Period will not count toward meeting the requirement specified in 28.1.D.
... Subsection (6D) sets out the circumstances in which two successive continuous periods of foreign service will be taken together to constitute a single continuous period of foreign service.
A person who has been engaged in a continuous period of foreign service of 334 days or more will have an absentee credit balance of 31 days (31 days is the maximum credit balance that a person can have at any time).
Under the current operation of section 23AG, a continuous period of foreign service ends when the person ceases, either temporarily or permanently, to be engaged in foreign service.
Summary of new law 1.6 These amendments have three components: &#8226; Individuals will not break a period of foreign service until the time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
The days included in a total period of absence at a particular time are the days of absence from the beginning of the first foreign service period up until that time.
Clause 8 : Exemption of income earned in overseas employment Clause 8 proposes the insertion of a new section section 23AG - into the Principal Act, the purpose of which is to provide an exemption from Australian tax for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident during a continuous period of service of at least 12 months.
Proposed new subsections (6A) to (6D) will, in certain circumstances, allow two successive continuous periods of foreign service to be taken to constitute one continuous period of foreign service.
74 When a member of flight crew undertakes a series of duty periods, they will together constitute a duty cycle for that member to the extent that they are uninterrupted by a "Domestic Day Off" ie a period at that member's Home Base which is available for leisure and relaxation and free of all duties, such as would be available to many "9 to 5" workers on weekends (see clauses 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.12).
Where a person breaks a continuous period of foreign service by, for example, returning to Australia for reasons not directly related to his or her continuing foreign service engagement or by changing jobs overseas, the credit balance will be taken into account.
54 If (say) a company executive resident in Australia was engaged in foreign service in Hong Kong, that person's foreign service would be treated as continuous if he or she flew back to Australia to visit a relative who was ill, returning within 24 hours.
The new rule --- the one-sixth rule --- states that a period of foreign service will not be considered to have been broken until the point when absences exceed one-sixth of the days in foreign service.
(c) the Commissioner shall be deemed at that time to have made an assessment (in this section referred to as the deemed assessment ) of: 
(i) the fringe benefits taxable amount (including a nil amount) of the employer of the year of tax; and (ii) the amount (including a nil amount) of tax payable on that fringe benefits taxable amount; 
 being those respective amounts as specified in the return referred to in paragraph (a); 
 (d) the return referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be a notice of the deemed assessment and to be under the hand of the Commissioner; 
 (e) the notice referred to in paragraph (d) shall be deemed to have been served at that time on the person liable to pay the tax.
94 It is fallacious to say that a person who is a resident of Australia, whose home is in Australia, whose Home Base or Preferred Port is in Australia and whose duty cycles begin and end in Australia is engaged in service in a foreign country in the capacity of an employee within the meaning of s 23AG of the 1936 Act.
... Subsection (6J) defines a "whole day" for the purposes of subsections (6B) and (6C) which respectively provide for absentee credits or debits to arise at the end of each whole day of engagement in foreign service or absence from foreign service.
34 To enable the question as agreed between the parties to be determined it is necessary to turn to, firstly the FBT Act, secondly the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act') and Schedule 1 thereto, thirdly the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the 1997 Act') and, fourthly, the 1936 Act.
income tax , in relation to a foreign country: 
(a) in all cases --- does not include a municipal income tax; and (b) in the case of a federal foreign country --- does not include a State income tax.
1.10 Under the current rules, absences from work that do not constitute foreign service will not break a foreign service period if the individual's absentee credit balance is greater than nil.
21 Matters dealt with by the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service 2002 included Terms of Employment (clause 3), Salary (clause 7, when taken with Schedule 1), Rostering (clause 21), Crew Positioning (clause 22), Annual Leave (clause 25), Guaranteed Days Off (clause 26), Statutory Holidays (clause 27), Sickness Allowance (clause 28), Compassionate Leave (clause 29), Maternity Leave (clause 30), Redundancy (clause 31), Discipline and Grievance (clause 32), Suspension of Employment (clause 33), Termination of Employment (clause 34) and Retirement (clause 35).
Example: 
 Kate is engaged in foreign service for 20 days, is absent for 2 days and is then engaged in foreign service for 10 days.
'Modifications to exemption for foreign earnings Schedule 1 to this Bill modifies some aspects of the section 23AG of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 foreign employment income exemption.
23.4 When a Flight Crew member has one or more Rest Periods between leaving the place of Rest that has the greatest Local Time difference from Home Base Local Time of the Duty Cycle and arriving at Home Base then the Required Recovery Period will be that specified in Table "X" minus one DDO.
This tax exemption applies to the foreign earnings of Australian residents engaged in foreign service for a continuous period of 91 days.
... 7.17 Normal Rest A Rest Period required after the completion of a Duty Period where the Local Time difference between the places where the Duty Period started and finished is less than six hours.
As the first foreign service period was only 70 days, Jason's foreign earnings will not be eligible for the section 23AG exemption.
d) In the alternative, any days the employees are not considered to be engaged in foreign service within the meaning of s.23AG of ITAA36 should constitute recreation leave or sick leave for the purposes of s.23AG(6), and therefore should fall within the extended meaning of 'engaged in foreign service'.
Apart from dealing with sick leave and recreation leave attributable to foreign service (see s 23AG(6)), s 23AG, as originally enacted, did not address discontinuity in a person's 'engagement in foreign service'.
1.9 The amendments do not change this distinction, but merely substitute a new rule for calculating whether absences that are not included in foreign service break a period of foreign service.
'6AB(1) A reference in this Act to foreign income is a reference to income derived from sources in a foreign country or foreign countries.
Foreign Affairs and Trade Legislation Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (Act No 150 of 1997)
 A New Tax System (Personal Income Tax Cuts) Act 1999 (Cth) (Act No.
(2) A reference in this Act to foreign tax is a reference to tax imposed by a law of a foreign country, being- 
...' 
40 In addition it provided for the omission of paragraphs (q) and (qa) of s 23 of the 1936 Act.
1.11 The 'credits and debits' system will be replaced by a rule that allows periods of foreign service to be added together until a time that absences exceed one-sixth of the days of foreign service.
7.26 Rest Period A period of time before starting a Flight Duty Period which is designed to give crew members adequate opportunity to rest before a flight.
&#8226; is absent on recreation leave, ... 
 ...; or 
 &#8226; is absent from work because of accident or illness... 
...' 
57 In the Minister's Second Reading Speech in respect of the Bill which became the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
93 Section 23AG exempts salaries from tax in Australia where they are derived by persons engaged in service in a particular foreign country and the particular foreign country is the base from which they derive those salaries.
... 
 " employer" means: 
 (a) a current employer; 
 ...; or 
 (c) a former employer 
 ... 
 ... 
 current employer means a person ... who pays, or is liable to pay, salary or wages... 
 ... 
 " former employer" means a person who has been a current employer.
The applicant's obligation under s 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act to withhold amounts from their respective salaries could only be avoided for the period from 1 April to 30 June 2006 if, under s 12-1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act, there was no obligation to withhold amounts under s 12-35 in respect of the payment of their monthly salaries at the end of April, May and June.
97 Furthermore, absences, which may bring about discontinuity in a period of engagement in foreign service are not limited to absences where the relevant employee departs from the foreign country (cf s 23AG and s 23AF in this regard).
52 It will be apparent from the history of s 23AG as recited above that, when first enacted, exemption from tax applied where a person had been 'engaged in foreign service' for a continuous period of not less than 365 days.
... 
 salary or wages means: 
(a) a payment from which an amount must be withheld (even if the amount is not withheld) under a provision in Schedule 1 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 listed in the table, to the extent that the payment is assessable income; ... ... 
 [At the conclusion of the definition of salary or wages a table appeared which included under the heading ' Withholding payments covered ' a reference to s 12-35 of the Administration Act in relation to 'Payment to employee'] '.
... Sub-section 23AG(6) in effect specifies that, for the purpose of determining the length of a period of foreign service on which entitlement to exemption under the section is based, various periods when the person is not actually on the job are to be taken into account.
'Salary and wages earned overseas by an Australian resident and liable to tax in the country of source are to be fully exempt from Australian income tax where derived in performing service overseas for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
Section 3 of Part 2 dealt with "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME" and Section 3 of Part 4 dealt with "ROSTERING PRACTICES FOR FLIGHT CREW OPERATING CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS AIRCRAFT EFFECTIVE 1ST JANUARY 2005 [superseding those effective 1 st August 2001]".
B.
a. He/she ends a Duty Period at Home Base no more than forty eight hours after the start of the Duty Period that resulted in him/her becoming unacclimatised; or b. He/she has completed a Recovery Period.
Where the foreign earnings are derived during a continuous period of foreign service of at least 12 months a full exemption is provided.
Both s 23AG(2) and its predecessor s 23AG(3) each commenced with the expression 'An amount of foreign earnings derived in a foreign country is not exempt from tax under this section...'.
A proportionate exemption will apply where the period is from 3 to 12 months, provided in either case that the income is not exempt from tax in the country in which it is derived, and any foreign tax due has been, or will be, paid.
6 Thereupon, the applicant filed an Application on 7 May 2008 appealing to the Court against the relevant appealable objection decision, being the decision of the respondent made on 12 March 2008 to disallow in full the applicant's objection, said to have been dated 5 October 2007, against the Notice of Assessment issued by the respondent on 30 May 2007 of the applicant's Fringe Benefits Taxable Amount for the tax period ending 31 March 2007.
When no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as may be required by other than normal post flight duties.
76 The industrial agreement introduced the concept of a "Guaranteed Day Off", the concept of an "O Day" and the concept of an "Available Day", all of which were effectively subsets of a "Domestic Day Off", as defined in the "APPROVED FLIGHT TIME LIMITATIONS SCHEME", with minor modifications.
(2A) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to foreign earnings to the extent that the person derived them from foreign service in Iraq after 31 December 2002 but before 1 May 2004.
... 
 7.10 Flight Duty Period (FDP) 
Any time during which a crew member operates in an aircraft as a member of its Flight Crew or Cabin Crew.
15.2 An Available Day, on which a crew member is not required to perform any Duty, that meets the requirements of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme in relation to Domestic Days Off will be deemed to be a Domestic Day Off for the purposes of the Approved Flight Time Limitations Scheme.
For Positioning, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be ATA on blocks plus thirty minutes, or such later time as my be required by other than normal post flight duties.
c. For Other Duties, where no other subsequent duty is to be undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be the time at which the duty is Scheduled to end.
(3) The operator of an aircraft to which this Article applies shall not cause or permit any person to fly therein as a member of its flight crew unless the operator has in his possession an accurate and up-to-date record in respect of that person and in respect of the 28 days immediately preceding the flight showing --- 
 (a) all his flight times; and 
 (b) brief particulars of the nature of the functions performed by him in the course of his flight times.
c. For other duties, when no other duty is subsequently undertaken, termination of the Duty Period and commencement of the Rest Period will be at the time at which the duty ends.
'995-1(1) ... 
entity has the meaning given by section 960-100' 
(i) Section 960-100 of the 1997 Act provided, inter alia as follows:
 '960-100(1) Entity means any of the following: 
 (a) an individual; 
 (b) a body corporate; 
 (c) a body politic; 
 (d) a partnership; 
(e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund; ...' 
At the foot of s 960-100(1) a 'Note' appears which provided:
 'Note: the term entity is used in a number of different but related senses.
As indicated earlier in these notes, paragraph 23(q) exempts many categories of income derived by a resident of Australia from sources outside Australia and Papua New Guinea which would otherwise be assessable by virtue of paragraph 25(1)(a) of the Principal Act where, broadly, the income is not exempt from tax in the country where it is derived.
foreign service means service in a foreign country as the holder of an office or in the capacity of an employee.
39 Section 23AG was inserted into the 1936 Act by the Taxation Laws Amendment (Foreign Tax Credits) Act 1986 (Cth) (Act No.
20 Clause 51.1 dealt with the possibility of the applicant being 'wound up' or otherwise ceasing to operate, in which case aircrew were to 'rejoin' Cathay Pacific in their existing rank and grade on Cathay Pacific Conditions of Service, Veta on Veta Conditions of Service or USAB on USAB Conditions of Service.
67 Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual was divided into five separate parts headed "Organization", "Operations", "Flying", "Crew Administration" and "Flight Safety".
'(6A) For the purposes of this section, the absentee credit balance of a person at a particular time is the number of whole days (if any) by which the total of the absentee credits of the person arising before that time exceeds the total of the absentee debits of the person arising before that time.
Since he has been engaged in foreign service for 110 days (65 + 5 + 40) he would be entitled to the exemption under section 23AG for earnings from those days.
(6G) Where: 
(a) in the making of an assessment, this section has been applied on the basis that a circumstance that did not exist at the time of making the assessment would exist at a later time; and (b) the Commissioner, after making the assessment, becomes satisfied that the circumstance will not exist; 
 then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 170, the Commissioner may amend the assessment at any time for the purposes of ensuring that this section shall be taken always to have applied on the basis that the circumstance did not exist.
A person who worked his way up to become an engineer in a sugar refining company after serving his apprenticeship with that company and who served it mainly in the State of New South Wales but also was assigned to perform services as an inspecting engineer in the company's business in New Zealand, was held to have derived his income from a source out of Australia in respect of the period during which he performed services for the company in New Zealand.
7.21 Recovery Period A period free of duty following a Duty Cycle of length greater than forty eight hours on completion of which the crew member is Unacclimatised.
An absence is not considered to be part of a continuous period of foreign service (subject to subsection 23AG(6)).
S 23AG(2) proceeded to focus on the tax treatment given in "the" foreign country to the amount of foreign earnings derived in it.
Taking what is colloquially referred to as a "sickie", which is not occasioned by a genuine illness, would bring a period of engagement in service in a foreign country to an end.
A continuous period of not less than 91 days of foreign service is necessary to claim the exemption.
When a crew member finishes a Duty Period at a place where the Local Time differs by more than three hours from his/her Home Base Local Time, straightaway he/she will be considered as Unacclimatised.
7.7 Duty Period 
Any continuous period during which a crew member is required to carry out Duty.
... 7.12 Home Base The place nominated by the Company to the crew member, or as otherwise contractually agreed between them, from where the crew member normally starts and ends a Duty Cycle and at which place, under normal conditions, the Company is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member concerned.
'950-100(1) These all form part of this Act: 
&#9679; the headings of the Chapters, Parts, Divisions and Subdivisions of this Act; 
 &#9679; Guides; 
 &#9679; the headings of the sections and subsections of this Act; 
&#9679; the headings for groups of sections of this Act (group headings); &#9679; the notes and examples (however described) that follow provisions of this Act.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No.
1.4 One area of complexity this measure addresses is the 'credits and debits' rule used to allow an individual to be considered to have a continuous period of foreign service despite short absences.
Section 23AG authorises a full or partial exemption from Australian tax, depending on the term of the period of employment, for salary or wages earned overseas by an Australian resident individual that are subject to tax in the country of source.
Accordingly, the requirement of 91 days continuous period of foreign service should still be satisfied.
1.5 These amendments also modify section 23AG in two specific situations: where a taxpayer was employed in Iraq during the suspension of the income tax system, and where a taxpayer dies before reaching 91 days of continuous service.
3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
 ... 
 3.2 The Company is required to ensure that all personnel involved in the application of the Scheme appreciate the relationship between the frequency and pattern of FDPs [Flight Duty Periods], Rest Periods and days off, and that due consideration is given to the cumulative effects of working long hours interspersed with minimum Rest Periods.
1.17 The aim of the amendment is to allow taxpayers a similar total period of absence to that allowed by section 23AF, (ie a foreign employment income exemption for individuals working on approved projects).
[Section 6-5(1) and 6-10(2) of the 1997 Act provided as follows:
 '6-5(1) Your assessable income includes income according to ordinary concepts, which is called ordinary income .
 Background 
 1 On 30 May 2007 the applicant, Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited, lodged a Fringe benefits tax (FBT) return for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 with the Australian Taxation Office.
Suffice it to say that different rules are engaged to determine the number of duty hours depending on whether the relevant duty is flight period duty, positioning or other duties (see clauses 7.5 and 8).
OVERSEAS AIRCREW BASING LIMITED A wholly owned subsidiary of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited 3/F, Central Tower Cathay Pacific City 8 Scenic Road Hong Kong International Airport Lantau Hong Kong Dear We are pleased to offer you employment with our company as a on the Airbus with effect from This offer is subject to the Overseas Aircrew Basing Limited Conditions of Service (2002) a copy of which is attached hereto.
55 When the original subsections (6A), (6B), (6C), (6D), (6E) and (6J) were repealed, they were replaced by the current subsections (6A) and (6B) to deal with periods of discontinuity in respect of 'engagement in foreign service' not covered by sick leave or recreation leave for which s 23AG(6) already provided.
66 As mentioned at [9] above, the applicant's Conditions of Service, which formed part of the relevant contracts of employment between the applicant and the seven individual pilots, were to be read in conjunction with Volume 1 of Cathay Pacific's Operations Manual and interpreted in accordance with the law as set out in the various applicable Ordinances of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
A proportionate exemption applies where the continuous period of foreign service is between 3 and 12 months.
For each whole day that a person is engaged in foreign service he or she will accrue an "absentee credit" of 31/334 of a day.
ADMINISTRATION 16.1.