
Jerry Reinsdorf

(1936-02-25) February 25, 1936 (age 88) New York City, U.S.
Jerry Michael Reinsdorf (born February 25, 1936) is an American sports executive and businessman who is the owner of the NBA's Chicago Bulls and MLB's Chicago White Sox.  He started his professional life as a tax attorney with the Internal Revenue Service. He has been the owner of the White Sox and Bulls for nearly 40 years. As of May 2024, his net worth was estimated at US$2.2 billion.
He made his initial fortune in real estate, taking advantage of the Frank Lyon Co. v. United States decision by the United States Supreme Court, which allowed economic owners of realty to sell property and lease it back, while transferring the tax deduction for depreciation to the title owner.
As the owner and chairman of the Chicago Bulls since 1985, he oversaw a turnaround in the franchise's fortunes, culminating in six NBA Championships in the 1990s (1991–1993 and 1996–1998). He is controversial for his involvement (along with Jerry Krause) in breaking up the championship team by not hiring back  Phil Jackson. He signed Michael Jordan as a baseball player during his sabbatical from basketball.  He also moved the Bulls from Chicago Stadium to the United Center.
After Reinsdorf's purchase of the White Sox in 1981, the franchise made the playoffs in 1983 for the first time since 1959, and won the World Series for the first time since 1917 in 2005, the only year during his tenure as owner in which the White Sox have won a playoff series. Reinsdorf moved the White Sox from Comiskey Park to New Comiskey Park in 1991 (now known as Guaranteed Rate Field). In both sporting endeavors, he has developed a reputation as an anti-labor union hardliner.  Since the early 1990s, he has been considered one of the most influential basketball owners.  He has been influential in instituting the salary cap and revenue sharing. On April 4, 2016, Reinsdorf was elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as a contributor.

Early life and college

Reinsdorf was born to a Jewish family in Brooklyn, New York.  He attended Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn, and is the son of a sewing machine salesman.  Reinsdorf was in the stands the day Jackie Robinson debuted for the Brooklyn Dodgers, "breaking the color barrier" as the first black player permitted by white ownership.
Reinsdorf earned a bachelor's degree from George Washington University in Washington, D.C., where he became a member of Alpha Epsilon Pi.  He subsequently moved to Chicago in 1957. Reinsdorf became a CPA and lawyer as well as a registered mortgage underwriter and a certified review appraiser.  He leveraged a full scholarship offer from the University of Chicago Law School into a scholarship from the Northwestern University School of Law.

Early business career

Reinsdorf worked as an IRS lawyer after graduating from Northwestern in 1960, where his first case concerned the tax delinquency of Bill Veeck, who at the time owned the White Sox. In 1964, he went into private practice.  He developed a specialty in real estate partnership tax shelters.  He sold his business interests in the real estate partnership in 1973 and formed Balcor, which raised US$650 million to invest in buildings under construction.  He sold Balcor in 1982 for $102 million to Shearson Lehman Brothers, the investment banking and brokerage arm of American Express.  However, he continued to be President of the company for several years thereafter.

Sports ownership


New purchases

In 1981 he was wealthy enough to purchase the White Sox for $19 million.  The purchase was brokered by American National Bank who arranged for a limited partnership.  He followed previous eccentric White Sox owners Charles Comiskey, who was known as a miser, and Veeck, who was known as a prankster who gutted the team by trading away promising prospects. Soon after buying the White Sox, he signed Greg Luzinski and Carlton Fisk.  He also tripled the team promotional budget and increased the number of team scouts from 12 to 20.  By the 1983 Major League Baseball season the White Sox made the playoffs with the best record in the Major Leagues.  The team initially signed a television deal with the newly founded Sportsvision under the new leadership of Chairman Reinsdorf and Vice Chairman Eddie Einhorn, but that arrangement quickly fizzled. Einhorn continued as Vice Chairman of the White Sox until his death in 2016.
In 1985 he purchased the Chicago Bulls as part of a syndicate for US$16 million, following in the footsteps of Einhorn, who had purchased the United States Football League's Chicago Blitz franchise in 1984. In the months prior to the purchase, Milwaukee businessman Marvin Fishman had been awarded a $16.2 million judgment against the Bulls.  Fishman had been illegally blocked from purchasing the team in 1972.  Reinsdorf purchased the team from an ownership group that included Lamar Hunt, George Steinbrenner, Walter Shorenstein, Jonathan Kovler, Lester Crown, Philip Klutznick, and the estate of Arthur Wirtz, and he held a $9.2 million controlling interest in the team.  Reinsdorf's share of 56.8% of the team was purchased from Klutznick, Steinbrenner, Shorenstein and the estate of Wirtz.  His purchase ended an era in which the Bulls were managed by committee with decisions by conference call, verdicts by vote.  Reinsdorf acquired his majority interests on March 11, 1985, and Kovler sold his 7% stake in the team on January 29, 1986, bringing Reinsdorf's interest to 63%.  The following week Reinsdorf ousted Rod Thorn as general manager and replaced him with Jerry Krause.
Led by Jordan, who was drafted the year before Reinsdorf purchased the team, the team's popularity and on-court success rapidly improved.  The Bulls drafted Horace Grant and Scottie Pippen and traded for Bill Cartwright to join John Paxson and Michael Jordan under the tutelage of head coach Doug Collins.  In 1989, the franchise promoted then-Bulls assistant coach