
Philadelphia 76ers

The Philadelphia 76ers, also known colloquially as the Sixers, are an American professional basketball team based in the Philadelphia metropolitan area.[b] The 76ers compete in the National Basketball Association (NBA) as a member of the Atlantic Division of the Eastern Conference. The team plays its home games at the Wells Fargo Center located in the South Philadelphia Sports Complex. 
Founded in 1946 and originally known as the Syracuse Nationals, they are one of the oldest franchises in the NBA and one of only 8 out of 23 to survive the league's first decade. The team is owned and managed by Harris Blitzer Sports & Entertainment (HBSE), with founders Josh Harris and David Blitzer acquiring the team in 2011.
The 76ers have had a prominent history, with many Hall of Fame players having played for the organization, including Dolph Schayes, Hal Greer, Wilt Chamberlain, Chet Walker, Billy Cunningham, George McGinnis, Julius Erving, Maurice Cheeks, Bobby Jones, Moses Malone, Charles Barkley, and Allen Iverson.
The 76ers have won three NBA championships. Their first came under their previous name, the Syracuse Nationals, in 1955. The second title came in 1967, a team which was led by Chamberlain. The third title came in 1983, won by a team led by Erving and Malone. The 76ers have only been back to the NBA Finals once since, in 2001, when they were led by Iverson and lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in five games. Chamberlain, Erving, Malone, Iverson, and Joel Embiid have been named the NBA's Most Valuable Player while playing for the 76ers, for a total of seven MVP awards.

Franchise history


1946–1963: Syracuse Nationals

Billy Gabor joined the Syracuse Nationals in 1948. Dolph Schayes joined the team in 1949. Both men spent their entire careers with the team, and won a championship together in 1955.
The 1958–59 Syracuse Nationals Hal Greer joined the Nationals in 1958 and spent his entire 15-season career with the franchise; he won a championship with the team in 1967. In 1946, Italian immigrant Danny Biasone established the Syracuse Nationals of the National Basketball League (NBL) in Syracuse, New York, for $5,000. While in the NBL with teams largely consisting of small Midwestern towns, the Nationals put together a 21–23 record, finishing in fourth place. In the playoffs, the Nationals were beaten by the Rochester Royals in four games. In their second season, 1947–48, the Nationals struggled, finishing in fifth place with a 24–36 record. Despite their record, they made the playoffs, and were swept by the Anderson Duffey Packers in three straight games.
Prior to the 1948–49 season, four teams left the NBL for the BAA as the foundation for a merger was laid. The Nationals "recipe for success" began by recruiting Leo Ferris. Staying in the NBL, Ferris signed Al Cervi to be player-coach and outbid the New York Knicks for the services of Dolph Schayes who made his professional debut, leading the Nationals to a winning record for the first time with a record of 40–23. In the playoffs the Nationals defeated the Hammond Calumet Buccaneers, winning the series in two straight games. In the semifinals, the Nationals lost to the Anderson Duffey Packers for the second straight season in four games. In 1949, when the NBL and the BAA merged into the NBA, the Nationals were one of seven NBL teams that were brought into the NBA.
The Nationals were an instant success in the NBA, winning the Eastern Division in the 1949–50 season, with a league-best record of 51–13. In the playoffs the Nationals continued to play solid basketball, beating the Philadelphia Warriors in two games. Moving on to the Eastern Finals, the Nationals battled the New York Knickerbockers, beating their big-city rivals in a three-game series. In the NBA Finals, the Nationals faced fellow NBL alums the Minneapolis Lakers. In Game 1 of the Finals the Nationals lost just their second home game of the season 68–66. The Nationals did not recover, as they fell behind 3–1 before falling in six games.
Despite several teams leaving the NBA for the National Professional Basketball League before the 1950–51 season, the Nationals decided to stay put. In their second NBA season, 1950–51, the Nationals played mediocre basketball all season, finishing in fourth place with a record of 32–34. In the playoffs the Nationals played their best basketball of the season as they stunned the first-place Warriors in two straight, taking Game 1 on the road in overtime 91–89. In the Eastern Finals, the Nationals were beaten by the New York Knickerbockers in a hard-fought five-game series, losing the finale by just two points.
Cervi, playing less and coaching more, emphasized a patient offense and a scrappy defense, which led the league in the 1951–52 season by yielding a stingy 79.5 points per game as the Nationals won the Eastern Division with a solid 40–26 record. In the playoffs, the Nationals knocked off the Warriors again in a three-game series. In the Eastern Finals, the Nationals fell to the Knickerbockers again, dropping the series in four games.
The Nationals finished in second place in a hard-fought 3-way battle for first place in the Eastern Division for the 1952–53 season, with a record of 47–24. In the playoffs, the Nationals faced the Boston Celtics dropping Game 1 at home 87–81. Needing a win in Boston to keep their hopes alive, the Nationals took the Celtics deep into overtime before losing in quadruple OT 111–105, in what remains the longest playoff game in NBA history.
The Nationals acquired Alex Groza, and Ralph Beard as the Indianapolis Olympians folded leaving the NBA with just 9 teams for the 1953–54 season. Once again the Nationals battled for the Division title falling two games short with a 42–30 record. In the playoffs, the Nationals won all four games of a round-robin tournament involving the three playoff teams from the East. In the Eastern Finals, the Nationals beat the Celtics in two straight games. In the NBA Fi