Kexin Di, Male, Born in Jan 1984, Jinzhou, Liaoning Province, China. Oil Painter and Signature Member Statue Award of Portrait Society of America. Professional oil painter of Wuhan Academy of Painting, membership of China Artists Association. Kexin has BFA and MFA degrees in figurative painting and a robust professional artistic career which has seen his classically realist paintings exhibited and collected throughout the world. Year 2004 Graduated from the Attached Secondary School of Academy of Luxun Academy of Fine Arts Year 2008 Graduated from the Oil Painting Department of China Academy of Art with BFA degree Year 2011 Graduated from the Oil Painting Department of China Academy of Art with MFA degree Year 2017 studied with and followed internationally recognized Master Odd Nerdrum Year 2011 till Now Working as a Professional Fine Artist in Wuhan Academy of Painting（Wuhan Fine Art Academy） 1,Year 2008 the oil painting "Spring Tide" won the Excellence Prize of the National Exhibition of Art Works: Commemorate of the 30th Anniversary of China's Reform and Opening Up", held by China Artists Association. And it was exhibited in national art museum of China& Guangdong Museum of Art. 2,Year 2008 the oil painting "the Edge of City" and other series of graduate works won the Prize of "Luo Zhongli Fellowship", and were exhibited respectively in National Art Museum of China and Sichuan Art Museum. Meanwhile, American curator Philip Tinari published articles to comment on winner Kexin Di's works. 3,Year 2011 the oil painting "Seismoscope" was invited to exhibit to the Culture in Jiangnan "My land and My People" National Invitational Oil Painting Exhibition, held by China Artists Association, and was exhibited in Zhejiang Province Art Museum. 4,Year 2011, Awarded China Academy of Art outstanding graduates and Zhejiang provincial outstanding graduates honorary title of MFA 5,Year 2014 the oil painting "HOPE" won the selected award to the 12th National Exhibition of Fine Arts, China, held by China Artists Association with every five years, and won the Golden Prize (1st prize) in Hubei Province Art Exhibition, and was exhibited in Zhejiang Province Art Museum. 6,Year 2015 the oil painting "HOPE" was selected to the Nationally Authoritative Oil Painting Exhibition with every two years “Footprints of Times: Art Exhibition (oil painting) in Nanjing China 2015” held by China Artists Association, and was exhibited in Jiangsu Province Art Museum. 7,Year 2015 the oil painting "Fishing Back" won the Excellence Prize in the Wu Guanzhong Museum of Arts, Nationwide Art Exhibition 2015 held by China Artists Association, and was exhibited in Wu Guanzhong Museum of Arts. Work was collected by Wu Guanzhong Museum of Arts. 8,Year 2015 the oil painting "Fishing Break" won the Excellence Prize in the "Silk Road, Fantastic Gansu": 9th Western China Nationwide Art Exhibition on the Love of Earth held by China Artists Association, and was exhibited in Gansu Museum of Arts. Work was collected by Gansu Museum of Arts. 9,Year 2017 the oil painting "Under the Sun" won the selected award of China National Art Exhibition of the 10th west side art on the love of earth “Magnificent Inner Mongolia Scenery Line” held by China Artists Association, and was exhibited in Inner Mongolia Museum of Arts.