Jeremy Henderson (25 December 1952 – 28 April 2009) lived for art, he was a British artist and painter. Artist in Residence at Kingston University, with art exhibited at the Royal Academy and in National Art Collections. Jeremy Henderson was born at Lisbellaw, County Fermanagh, on 25 December 1952, to James Douglas Alexander Henderson, who managed the family business of Henderson & Eadie, and Doris Josephine née Watson. He attended Portora Royal School in Enniskillen, where the art master, Angus Bryson, spotted Henderson as an exceptional student. From 1972 to 1973 Henderson studied an Arts Foundation course at Ulster University. From 1973 to 1976 he studied Fine art at Kingston University, London, achieving a Bachelor of Arts first class honours degree under the tutelage of Terry Jones, returning in 1977 as Artist in Residence. In the same year he became the first recipient of the Stanley Picker Fellowship Award in Painting. Between 1978 and 1979 Henderson completed a MA postgraduate in Fine Art at Chelsea School of Art under the tutelage of the artist John Hoyland . In 1980 Henderson started his professional artistic journey, developing abstract techniques, creating large canvases with complex layers of overlaid and inter-worked paint. Henderson lived and painted in London for 20 years before relocating back to Ireland. In the mid 1980's he worked in a studio adjacent to the house he shared with his partner, Jenni Stone with whom he had a daughter named Emerald. In 1990 Henderson moved to the Cooperage Studio, Brick Lane, London, sharing the top floor with sculptor David Fusco and artist Bryan Benge, a friend from Kingston University. Benge says "Every Summer the studios in the East End became part of the open studios programme. . . . . He was an intelligent and incredibly accomplished Painter". It was here, separated from his partner and virtually penniless, he devoted himself entirely to his work, living in a tent, donated by Benge's parents, inside the studio . Henderson was married once: in 1995 to the actress Patricia Martinelli with whom he subsequently had a daughter in 1997, Bella-Lucia. Henderson remained married, living in the remote village of Boho in Northern Ireland until his death, brought on by a brain tumour, on 28 April 2009. He remained a prolific artist throughout his life. In 1975 Henderson exhibited for Stowells Trophy at the Royal Academy. In 1977 Henderson became Artist in Residence at Kingston University. During the mid-1980s Henderson's work became recognised by private and public collectors, including Bono, leader of the Irish rock band U2. During this period Henderson sold his first work to the National Art Collection (1986). 'Cuilcagh Under A Renaissance Sky' was purchased for Fermanagh County Museum with a grant from the Arts Council of Northern Ireland during his first solo exhibition "Around a Border" in Ireland. This was followed by 3 more acquisitions via the Arts Council during the 1980's, who have continued to support his work into the new millennium acquiring "If Hobbema had Seen Ireland" (1989) in 2004 via Art Fund with support from the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation. His work is exhibited by Arts Council England