Acupuncture may be defined as the stimulation of a specific point on the body with a specific method, resulting in a therapeutic homeostatic method. Acupuncture involves the placement of tiny, sterile needles into precise locations in order to stimulate reparative processes. Acupuncture is a medical therapy with a long history, dating back to the ancient Chinese in the 2nd century BC. More recently, it has been thoroughly researched and adopted by conventional medical practitioners in both human and veterinary medicine, as its physiologic mechanisms and effectiveness have been elucidated. The National Institute of Health endorsed the study and continued use of acupuncture therapy in a 1997 consensus statement.
Traditional Chinese medicine views each animal as a unique energetic being- not a catalog of symptoms and signs. Before therapy can begin, a Chinese diagnosis is made. This is accomplished through a process of evaluating a patient by observing, touching, listening, and enquiring. The resulting Chinese diagnosis is the basis for planning or prescribing therapy. A simple acupuncture point or group of points is selected to correct a pet’s specific energetic excesses or deficiencies. Once acupuncture prescription or group of points is chosen, therapy can begin.
There are many ways to stimulate or depress acupuncture points, including sterile needles, pressure, laser light, injection of solutions, low voltage electricity or implementation of gold or silver beads. The most commonly used technique being the use of very thin, sterile, solid needles. The application of needles is relatively non-painful. There is a prick of the skin at the onset and then the sensation of energy or heat flowing.
The majority of patients go through a typical sequence of responses during a treatment. At the onset they may be apprehensive, followed by a deep, almost sedative relaxation. As the treatment is coming to an end they may become slightly uncomfortable. Then, the needles are removed. The treatment session may last from 10 to 30 minutes. Depending on the treatment intensity, the patient may be tired for a day or two. Excessive exercise following treatment is not recommended. The frequency of treatments and the duration of time between sessions depends on the pet. As mentioned before, each animal is a unique being and will heal at different rates and tolerate the therapy differently. Therefore, each set of acupunctured points, as well as the frequency and duration of treatments, is developed for each patient. Average therapy consists of 5 to 10 treatments separated by 7 to 30 days.
As medical research has become more interested in acupuncture therapy, scientific studies have revealed a physiologic mechanism of action, known as “neuromodulation,” which may be more simply translated as “talking to nerves.” As a result of this interface with the nervous system, acupuncture reduces pain and restores the ability or desire to move, facilitates recovery from injury or illness, and bolsters the ability to regain and maintain homeostasis (the body’s natural state of balance and health). The acupuncture needles interact with the connective tissues, vessels, nerves, and local signaling molecules to have both local and systemic effects. These effects include pain relief, release of endorphins, normalizing of overactive “fight or flight” reflexes, and modulation of the immune system. The mechanisms are enormously complex, and acupuncture researchers in the clinical and basic science fields are working furiously to define them more clearly.
Keywords : Autoimmune
The Role of Oncology Pharmacists in optimizing patient care in Chronic Immune Thrombocytopenia
Bedanta Bhattacharjee; Bhargab Deka; Nasima Ahmed; Bonti Sonowal; Arzoo Newar; Ashique Ahmed; Abu Md Ashif Ikbal; Amlanjyoti Rajkhowa; Alakesh Bharali; Gargi Das; Ritu Bharti; Ripon Sinha
European Journal of Molecular & Clinical Medicine, 2021, Volume 8, Issue 3, Pages 279-292
DOI: 10.31838/ejmcm.08.03.27
Immune thrombocytopenia or ITP is an autoimmune disorder in which the body creates autoantibodies against its thrombocytes or platelets that are destroyed, resulting in purpura or minor bleeding spots under the surface. It is most often found in cancer patients and is of growing concern.While the main causes of thrombocytopenia in cancer pat ients are chemotherapy and radiation, other aetiologies should also be considered in patients suffering
from this debilitating disease. Thrombocytopenia causes a variety of complications in the treatment of cancer patients and therefore pharmacists need to be familiar with epidemiology, pathophysiology, risk factors, diagnostic methods, and emerging therapeutic options for chronic immune thrombocytopenia to help oncologists identify and implement realistic treatment measures for chronic immune thrombocytopenia patients undergoing cancer treatment.The objective of this review is to provide a brief overview of chronic immune thrombocytopenia and various strategies for the clinical management of the disease.
Joe Strazzullo PT, DPT
I worked one-on-one with someone with William's Syndrome as a Community Integration Specialist, helping him improve work skills, strength and conditioning and general lifestyle management.
Sports Injury Rehabilitation – I treat many athletes, especially soccer players
The rehabilitation of ACL, MCL, and LCL injuries of the knee, patellofemoral and IT band syndrome, as well as ankle and hip pathology.
I injured my back severely in high school and was rehabilitated through physical therapy. This gave me first hand experience of the power of physical therapy and the relationships that can be developed out of it. Helping people has always been a passion of mine and has been the driving force behind my career choice.
I think having a solid understanding of the anatomy of the human body and biomechanics as it relates to movement is of utmost importance. I also feel that making the patient's experience in therapy a positive one is just as powerful. It takes a person who truly cares about the patient and does not just concentrate on the specific body part that is injured. A therapist should view the patient as a whole and take the time to listen to their goals and expectations so that each plan of care is specific to that individual and meaningful. Therapists should also be able to adapt to various personalities and ensure the patient that their time is valuable and worth coming to therapy. I believe that a therapist should make a patient feel comfortable and confident in what he/she is doing, have open communication with the patient, and provide an overall positive environment throughout the patient's care.
All Time Low Headlines Third Annual Mental Health Music Festival at Ventura Fairgrounds | Grateful Web
Article Contributed by L. Paul Mann | Published on Friday, May 14, 2021
Sound Mind Live is presenting their third annual Mental Health Music Festival on May 20th. The marathon concert will be hosted by comedian and actor Solomon Georgio, a diverse and exciting musical line-up including headliners All Time Low, Indie pop darlings Fitz and The Tantrums, and lovelytheband best known for their mega-hit "Broken." The concert also features pop singer Charlotte Lawrence, Indie rocker Matthew Logan Vasquez, best known as the lead singer/songwriter/guitarist of Indie rock group Delta Spirit and new Indie rockers Ian Sweet. More acts are still being added to the line-up.
All Time Low wowed a massive crowd at the 2018 KABOO festival in San Diego before the pandemic put the breaks on live music. The Maryland rockers played high-energy live shows since they began playing in high school almost a decade ago. The one-off concert is most likely to be sold out by the day of the show.
According to Sound Mind Live, "The festival serves as a rallying cry for the mental health support needed to begin healing as people across the globe continue to cope with the mental health effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. "The collective trauma the world has experienced due to the pandemic has awoken us to our shared humanity along the spectrum of mental health," said Sound Mind Live Executive Director Chris Bullard. "As the physical threats of the pandemic begin to wane, now it is more important than ever to foster empathy and open dialogue around mental health so we can heal without battling stigma or a lack of knowledge on these issues. Demonstrating the urgency of the situation, a recent CDC study found that 41% of individuals are experiencing adverse mental health conditions due to the pandemic — with this number being as high as 75% for young adults — indicating that the road to recovery will be long and lasting. Bringing these issues to the forefront of conversations can help break down the stigma surrounding mental health. Experts from leading mental health organizations, including the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, and The JED Foundation, will provide information on mental health resources, support programs, and best practices for self-care."
Tickets are on sale now, and prices start at $99 per car. The event will also be streamed live via the Consequence of Sound YouTube and Facebook channels. For additional event information and to purchase tickets, visit www.soundmindlive.org.
Like all the shows in the "Concerts In Your Car" series, the show will include a fantastic light show and multi-media entertainment. The combination of an extra high, theatre-in-the-round style, four-sided stage, and four oversized live video screens ensures that every seat is the best seat in the house. The events are designed to comply with all state and county restrictions making for a family-safe event. Sound comes from the stage like a traditional concert and can also be heard via car stereos on an FM station. Other upcoming shows include Latin rockers War on May 29th and Hip Hop artists Nelly and Baby Bash on June 12th.
How Can Massage Therapy Help Arthritis - Askives Docs
How Can Massage Therapy Help Arthritis Related documents, manuals and ebooks about How Can Massage Therapy Help Arthritis
6022 downloads @ 2369 KB/s
7121 downloads @ 9209 KB/s
Massage and arthritis - Arthritis Queensland
Massage and arthritis ... it is claimed massage can help: ... Are there different types of massage? Massage therapy generally falls into two categories: Physiotherapy and arthritis - Arthritis Research...
• Massage can help the muscles relax and make joint movement more comfortable. • Acupuncurt e can stimulate the ... Occupational therapy and arthritis; Lakeview Community Wellness Center Orthopaedic...
Lakeview Community Wellness Center Orthopaedic ... The medical community has begun to be aware that hands on therapy can help ... Massage therapy for arthritis ... Benefits of Massage ::Profound Effects:: In...
What Conditions Has Massage Therapy Been Known to Help? ... Arthritis Chronic and ... This form of massage can help to prevent or reduce; ... Pain Massage and Relief
"Because massage therapy does help with the ... cancer and arthritis. ... of adults polled agreed that massage therapy can Massage and arthritis - Support, Management...
Massage and arthritis ... Massage may also help to temporarily ... When attending a massage therapy session, be sure to MASSAGE ENVY PRESENTS Healing Hands for Arthritis
Healing Hands for Arthritis MASSAGE ENVY PRESENTS Wednesday, September 19 ... vard Medical School show that massage therapy can help relieve some of the serious pain Natural arthritis therapy - Dr Michael Hirt
Natural arthritis therapy ... utilizes massage, physical therapy, aquatic therapy, and chiropractic care to help patients keep active with less pain. Orthopaedic Connection Massage – Hands on Relief...
Orthopaedic Connection Massage ... begun to be aware that hands on therapy can help alleviate ... this for arthritis patients. Deep massage can create ... Massage for Pain
Massage for Pain Massage therapy for pain can include ... arthritis, muscle pain and ... James River Massage Therapy, ... www.arthritis.org.nz
planned diet can help some people with arthritis. ... MASSAGE As a therapy, massage can loosen stiff muscles by using gentle, soothing and kneading movements, Stress relief and arthritis Your comprehensive...
Arthritis and Therapeutic Massage ... work with your massage therapist to help ... and that regular massage therapy can improve Massage Therapy Treatment Manual - Biofreeze
Introduction Disclaimers and Contraindications The Massage Therapy Treatment Manual was created to offer ideas for safe effective massage treatments using Biofreeze ... THE CASE FOR PAIN RELIEF - Massage
We hope you can use this collection of research reviews to help you ... such as arthritis or carpal ... different types of massage therapy can be equally ... Fact Sheet – American Occupational Therapy...
Occupational therapy ... Arthritis The occupational therapy process begins ... occupational therapy practitioners will help to maximize ... Therapy Complementary and alternative medicine...
Therapy Complementary and alternative ... Diets can help many people with arthritis, both ... Massage can reduce HOW CAN MASSAGE DID YOU KNOW channels to release...
HOW CAN MASSAGE THERAPY HELP YOU? ... It has been known to help manage a variety of conditions, such as: allergies, arthritis, asthma/bronchitis, carpal Therapy Complementary and alternative medicine...
kind of magnet therapy that might help you. But it's very ... Massage can be stimulating or ... Complementary and alternative medicine for arthritis How to Manage Arthritis Pain Naturally - Grand...
TOP TEN WAYS HOW TO MANAGE ARTHRITIS PAIN NATURALLY ... sufferers find that regular massage therapy with a ... attitude CAN help your arthritis pain. Benefits of Massage - VRC Massage & Wellness
Benefits of Massage ... The Benefits of Massage Managing Arthritis Massage for Seniors ... According to a new study, massage therapy may help What is Massage Therapy?
Massage therapy can help to relieve ... Massage therapy can be beneficial for a variety of health conditions, including: •Allergies/asthma •Arthritis Help Yourself to Health - Southwest Spine and...
Help Yourself to Health ... massage therapy can be a ... Research shows that with massage: • Arthritis sufferers note fewer aches and less stiffness and Massage Therapy
The reality is that massage therapy can ... massage therapy can, without a doubt, help ... perspective and clarity after receiving a massage. The emotional balance ... Treatment Guide Knee Pain - Cleveland Clinic
The physicians and surgeons at Cleveland Clinic's Orthopaedic & ... rheumatoid arthritis can cause cartilage to wear away, ... can help relieve knee pain, ... The Biofreeze Massage Treatment Manual
There are various opinions regarding contraindications for massage therapy. ... BIOFREEZE products can effectively help ... 3. Pain associated with Arthritis ... A Massage Therapist is a Regulated Health...
Massage Therapy can help with; ... Muscle tension Back & neck pain Inflammatory conditions(arthritis, bursitis) Carpal ... Massage can help alleviate the soft tissue ... Massage Therapy Research Roundup, Volume 3
toid arthritis, among other ... study further suggests that massage therapy can be a useful aid in making the road to recovery an ... Massage Therapy Research Roundup Managing Arthritis Pain - Advance for Physical ...
can help you reverse these effects and give ... You can massage your own muscles or ... Managing Arthritis Pain ADVANCE. Therapeutic Massage Brochure - Family & Nursing...
important complementary therapy to other ... Massage for Arthritis ... massage can help alleviate pain, reduce Physical and Occupational Therapy for Rheumatoid ...
Physical and Occupational Therapy for Rheumatoid Arthritis ... • In moderate or advanced rheumatoid arthritis, a physical therapist can help ... therapeutic massage ... Depression: How Can Massage Therapy Help By Pamela...
... How Can Massage Therapy Help ... Cushings Disease, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus erythematosis ... Massage therapy offers a unique way of accomplishing ... Decrease joint pain and stiffness, improve...
• Massage therapy. ... of fats can lower your risk of developing arthritis, decrease inflammation, and help to achieve a healthy body weight. TREATMENTS OFFERED BENEFITS OF MASSAGE: MASSAGE...
BENEFITS OF MASSAGE: Massage can help relieve the pain, ... arthritis, fibromyalgia, illness ... Migranes can be allevi-ated through massage therapy with the use of Complementary Therapies and Products - Arthritis...
have used or are using complementary ... Arthritis brochure) can help you to ... people with lower back pain can benefit from osteopathy, and massage therapy can be ... Alternative Arthritis Therapies: Cupping & Magnets
Alternative Arthritis Therapies: ... acupuncture, massage therapy, ... I think, even used it in a basketball game to help with massage therapy - Constant Contact
massage therapy Bon Secours Physical ... Benefits of Massage Massage can be a powerful tool to help you take charge of your health and well ... • Decreases joint ... WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2009 HEALTH THE NEWS HERALD...
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2009 HEALTH THE NEWS HERALD A9 ... Massage can ease pain of arthritis ... Norris added that massage can help soothe ligaments Arthritis
showed that massage therapy improved ... There is relief in Massage Arthritis is the leading ... professional massage therapist can help improve Massage Therapy - RecPlex
Massage Therapy at RecPlex ... the help of regular massage sessions. ... Provides deep pain relief Arthritis Integrative Treatment of Dogs with Arthritis such...
It can be used in dogs with pain or arthritis to help ... While physical therapy and massage therapy ... Many studies have indicated that human contact can help ... Physical Therapy - Packerland Vet
ranging from Underwater Treadmill therapy, massage, ... such as diabetes and arthritis. Therefore, weight loss can improve their ... physical therapy applications can Neck Pain - American College of Rheumatology
the first 48 hours of the start of pain can help ... Massage therapy ... Learn more about rheumatologists and rheumatology health professionals. Massage therapy ... MASSAGE THERAPY - University of Colorado Health
During massage therapy, ... ARTHRITIS BACk AND NECk PAIN CARPAL TUNNEL SYNDROME ... to help determine what massage program is right Massage Therapy
massage help improve this condition. (March 2010) ... arthritis. • Reducing ... serving the massage therapy profession. Canadian College Clinic Newsletter November 2013
gest that massage can help ... exercise techniques you can follow that put less strain on you & how massage therapy can help ... effects of massage for arthritis Trochanteric Bursitis – Self Management for...
Trochanteric Bursitis ... The physiotherapist can also use various techniques to help reduce your pain ... injection therapy is an option. All About You
All About You Sept/Oct 2012 Continued on page 2 Back Pain and Massage How Bodywork Can Help Karrie Osborn Studies show that massage therapy helps reduce back pain ... Massage Therapy Hands on care. - Yellow Pages
* Arthritis. Massage Therapy ... Massage Instructor. Massage therapy is a skilled technique of ... techniques yourself with the help of our Massage therapy - Physio Sport Plus
Massage therapy is beneficial to people of all ages. ... massage can help depression as well as anxiety and ... arthritis, pregnancy and whiplash,. Before treatment: close ×
legal &; financial services Linwood, KS?
KEEN WEALTH ADVISORS - Overland Park, KS .... Services. To help you achieve your goals, Keen Wealth Advisors provides comprehensive services and tools ...
News & Issue Alerts ... Foulston Siefkin and its Attorneys Ranked Among Kansas Best by Chambers USA · Jay Fowler Inducted to International Academy of Trial ...
Legal and Compliance Administrative Assistant Job at Alere in ...
www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/207433465
Sep 19, 2016 ... We are currently looking for an Legal Executive Administrative Assistant to be based out of our Overland Park, KS, o ffice. This position ... Information Technology and Services, Financial Services, and Hospital & Health Care ...
I have always believed that most quality centers will not fail you, but the patient can fail them. Sometimes, the patient will not do what they need to do to stay physically and psychologically healthy. Defiance is an issue in all addictions. The treatment centers do have the methods that can keep the addiction in physical remission and to temper the mindset of the addicted patient. The hope for the patient is that they will take responsibility for their recovery. This is not easy. Will the patient stop sabotaging their success? Will they adhere to abstention? Will they accept treatment recommendations? Will they discover and manage the triggers that continue their abuse of self?
No. Treatment centers want to first stabilize the patient physically and psychologically and then give them a choice for their future. Once in treatment, a transformation can in fact occur in the patient. They can acquire a desire and practical motivation to learn more about their addiction. They can become more honest about their part in it. Ultimately, the bulk of the patient’s work will take place in continuing care once they have stabilized and been given direction and recommendations.
We believe that 85% of people with addictive diseases never ask for help. The remaining approximately 15% respond to their pain or their crisis by getting help on their own. Help can come from anonymous groups (AA, NA, and so on), therapists, physicians—some addicts have even been successful by getting clean themselves. Since addictions shorten lives and bring misery to all involved, most people with addictions lead a life of practical or clinical insanity. They die too young. The reason is that the patient, in his illness, has developed stubbornness, numbness, or a threshold for pain that keeps him/her in a state of self-abuse (sometimes we say quiet desperation). The intervention process, in the vast majority of cases, alters the destiny of the disease. It lengthens lives and provides an alternative to abuse and insanity. Intervention is a proven alternative to bottoming out.
In the Storti Model the power of the intervention rests in its appeal to the heart of the patient—not the mind. The intervention communicates kindness and respect. Its purpose is not primarily to give the patient information or to get the patient to fully admit to the extent of the disease. The simpler and more powerful goal of motivating the patient to accept the solution as a gift is the Model’s aim.
Yes. Any competent specialist will go over your personal risks involved in an intervention. That is why an assessment is needed—it deciphers what risks may be present and gives the interventionist a chance to outline ways of dealing with difficult scenarios that may occur during the intervention or even afterwards.
Yes. Each intervention specialist has accepted a certain school theory of intervention. Each also brings his or her personality to the process. It’s wise to call a few intervention specialists. Ask for an assessment with them to make sure you’re comfortable with all aspects of the intervention model and specialist. You can ask for recommendations from treatment centers or families who have experienced interventions in the past.
Updated: 5:49 PM EST Feb 10, 2020
A girl who recently underwent a liver transplant at Boston Children's Hospital reunited with her surgeon for a special game of tennis.Estefany Rodriguez, 13, played Dr. Khashayar Vakili on a makeshift court in the hospital's Patient Entertainment Center on Monday afternoon.Rodriguez was diagnosed with liver disease when she was 4 years old and was placed on a transplant list last August. Two months later, she got a call that the hospital received a match for her.She received her transplant the week before Thanksgiving and right before the surgery, Vakili noticed that she was wearing a shirt that had tennis on it. That observation sparked a conversation about their mutual love of the sport."It's fun. It's what I use to get my mind off things," Rodriguez said.The observation sparked a conversation about their mutual love of the sport and eventually led Rodriguez to seek out a unique opportunity."She told other people she wanted to challenge me," said Vakili, who is a surgical director at Boston Children's Hospital.They eventually agreed to face each other in a tennis match, with Rodriguez coming out victorious."I mean, this was really for her to have fun and celebrate where she is right now," Vakili said.Rodriguez, a seventh-grader, is still recovering but has received a great prognosis.
Beware...#Aluminum levels in the #Brain have increased risk of #Alzheimers and #dementia. #healthychoicesxm.com https://t.co/Yb02uuW1Fa

Get the latest information about chronic pain which affects nearly 100 million people in USA. Read about pain relief and management information as well as mainstream and alternative treatments.
Pain in the shoulders and hips are among the most common complaints that lead to decreased activity and a decrease in quality of life. Here’s the latest on a new medical treatment that decreases pain and increases mobility at the same time.
Stem cell therapy is the future of regenerative medicine, but will stem cell therapy also define the future of healthcare in the United States? In this article, we will explore the benefits of stem cell therapy along with the impact this regenerative revolution will have on healthcare.
Prescription drug monitoring programs are central to federal and state policy responses to address prescription abuse. They are state run electronic database s of prescription medications. Unfortunately, even with these programs in place, there is evidence of limited benefit. Finds of the study suggest drug monitoring programs have a limited impact on individual level opioid utilization. They agree that further studies are needed (Moyo, 2017).
Many parents ask if their children are the only Autistic children that seem to have a higher or lower pain thresholds than the “normal” person. The answer is no they are not. Many children with Autism experience reduced or heightened pain sensitivity. It is actually widely reported to be a common feature of children with Autism. Sensory abnormalities in Autism are well known; they are even part of the diagnostic criteria for the condition. But few investigators have looked into how people with Autism experience pain. The ones who have base their conclusions of reduced and heightened pain in children with Autism on anecdotal observations and questionable measures of pain reported by parents. My son is among the Autistic children that are affected by this.
Is it possible to heal one's pain with cold water? Apparently, it's possible to relieve post-operative pain through swimming in cold water.
Are you an NSAID Abuser? You might be according to a new study that found that nearly one out of every five NSAID users exceed the recommended daily limit. Here's what you need to know to avoid the health consequences of NSAID abuse.
The human body was designed for movement. Unfortunately, too many of us these days are sedentary, especially those with desk jobs. Also, unfortunately, a sedentary lifestyle can lead to some severe health complications.
Foot pain is no fun. If walking hurts, especially first thing in the morning, you may be dealing with plantar fasciitis. While there are many suggestions for how to ease plantar fasciitis pain -- such as steroids, the cure remains a mystery for this type of foot pain. However, these natural remedies for plantar fasciitis work safely and effectively anytime a flare up may occur.
You have likely heard the buzz about turmeric. This cousin of ginger, common in Indian cooking may be the most effective nutritional supplement you can add to your diet. Keep reading for my recipe for a delicious turmeric latte that you will want to drink every day.
Fibromyalgia is one of the most common chronic pain conditions. The disorder affects an estimated 10 million people in the U.S. and an estimated 3-6% of the world population, according to the National Fibromyalgia Association. So, here are some Natural approaches to heal fibromyalgia chronic pain.
Researchers say that there is an association between a fiber rich diet and a decreased risk of knee osteoarthritis.
OTC pain relievers at some point will come with side effects, but natural home remedies for pain usually have no side effects.
Researchers say present jellyfish sting recommendations may worsen stings. They have found vinegar and heat along with Sting No More Spray and Cream works best to treat jellyfish stings.
A recent study has shown craniosacral therapy to be effective in improving pain intensity, functional disability, and health-related quality of life. It is a non-invasive approach that uses gentle manual palpation techniques to release fascial restrictions between the cranium and the sacrum.
Can a $3 pair of earplugs save you thousands of dollars in insurance and pharmaceutical costs by making you not need painkillers? Here's the deal with sleep and how to improve yours.
Are you feeling more aches and pains and getting sore faster in the winter? Doctors say that colder temperatures can worsen conditions associated with chronic pain. Here are a few things you can do to help alleviate these winter nags.
MDS Diagnosis | The University of Kansas Cancer Center | Kansas City
Myelodysplastic Syndromes Screening and Diagnosis
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) can be difficult to diagnose. People often have no symptoms of MDS cancer , or their symptoms are attributed to another illness or condition. Proper diagnosis is crucial and is most often made by a hematologist with advanced knowledge of myelodysplastic syndromes.
To diagnose for myelodysplasia, your doctor takes 2 types of bone marrow samples:
A bone marrow biopsy removes a small piece of bone along with the marrow inside the bone
A bone marrow aspirate draws out a sample of liquid from the bone marrow space
Your doctor may perform a variety of tests on the samples. A hematologist will also look at your blood and bone marrow under a microscope to look for abnormal cell shapes and sizes – additional indicators of MDS. Blood tests can also check the number of red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets in your blood, and whether the cells have changed in size or shape.
Other tests your doctor may perform include chromosome analysis, flow cytometry studies to look at the way your blood cells are developing, or molecular genetic studies to determine the specific genetic traits of your bone marrow cells.
To determine the type of MDS cancer, your doctor looks at several factors:
How many blood cells look abnormal in their earliest forming stages within the bone marrow (also known as dysplasia)
Whether there's a lower number of mature blood cells than normal (cytopenia)
How many early red blood cells have an iron deposit ring around the nucleus (these are called ring sideroblasts)
The percentage of very early blood cells (known as blasts) that are present in the bone marrow
Certain chromosome changes at the cellular level in the bone marrow
The risk that MDS could turn into leukemia
Myelodysplasia is also classified as either primary MDS or secondary MDS. It is staged according to a special assessment system known as an IPSS-R score. From there, MDS cancer is classified according to the system developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), which recognizes 7 main subtypes of MDS cancer:
Additionally, WHO labels chronic myelomonocytic leukemia and juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia as "mixed" diseases that have characteristics of MDS as well as other blood cancers.
Classifying myelodysplasia helps doctors give an accurate diagnosis to better plan for your MDS cancer treatment.
Medical oncologist Abdulraheem Yacoub, MD, discusses myeloproliferative neoplasms, a group of blood diseases involving the bone marrow. Ms. Marti Uden, a patient and survivor, shares her experience.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Good morning, I'm Dr. Roy Jensen Director of the University of Kansas Cancer Center.
A simple blood test is often all it takes to detect a rare group of serious blood diseases involving the bone marrow called myeloproliferative neoplasms, or MPNs. MPNs are blood cancers that occur when the body makes too many white or red blood cells, or platelets, which can cause problems for blood flow and lead to many different types of symptoms.
Here to help us understand better this story on Bench to Bedside is Dr. Abdulraheem Yacoub a medical oncologist who focuses on hematologic malignancies and cellular therapeutics. And we're also pleased to welcome Mrs. Marti Uden, a patient and survivor who will share some of her experiences. I want to thank both of you for being here.
Dr. Yacoub: Thank you very much.
Dr. Roy Jensen: I especially want to thank Marti, who I got to meet a few months ago in our phase I celebration. And you gave such an incredible talk at that event, and we're so anxious to share your story now on Bench to Bedside, but thank you very much for being here.
We're going to start off with Dr. Yacoub and maybe could you tell us a little bit more about this disease?
Dr. Yacoub: Absolutely. Thank you Roy for giving us the opportunity to discuss these diseases. Myeloproliferative neoplasms or, in short, MPNs are a group of uncommon blood cancers. They are uncommon or rare in terms of incidence of new cases, however, since patients lived with them for decades at a time they are pretty prevalent in patients who live with cancer and cancer survivors. They are a group of blood cancers, which means they originate from the blood marrow and they result in manifestations by excessive production of blood elements: red cells, platelets, white cells, and scar tissue, and chemicals which result in a significant disadvantage and health hazard to the patients who have them, in addition to progression as a cancer.
There are multiple different unique syndromes, or unique diseases in the MPN family such as essential thrombocytosis or ET, polycythemia vera or PV, and primary myelofibrosis, in addition to chronic myeloid leukemia or CML and systemic mastocytosis, There's multiple other members of that family. They share a lot in common in terms of the manifestations and the biology behind the cancers, and how they occur, but each one of them has a unique story and unique features, and patients behave differently, we have different expectations accordingly.
Dr. Roy Jensen: What are some of the signs and symptoms of MPN?
Dr. Yacoub: This group of cancers include a pretty diverse cohort of patients with each of them having a unique story, but there are common symptoms that all these patients have. Patients can have significant symptoms because of excessive blood production, or eventually the lack of blood production as the bone marrow becomes more tired and more advanced. Symptoms of increased blood production can result in increased blood viscosity and complications of clotting or bleeding. The clotting can be a stroke, or a heart attack, or a clot anywhere in the venous system in the body. And bleeding can occur because of the malfunctioning of the blood elements. And infections can occur at a higher rate in patients who don't produce enough functioning white cells.
In addition to the symptoms because of the blood patients who have myeloproliferative neoplasms have significant constitutional symptoms and cancer related symptoms that are unique to these diseases unlike any other cancer. Patients have increased symptoms of fatigue, the kind of cancer fatigue that doesn't respond to just a good nap, or a good sleep. They also have symptoms of fever and night sweats, and itching. They could have symptoms of bone pain and extremity pain. As the disease progresses and patients occasionally develop an enlarged spleen, which can result in abdominal discomfort, sometimes this would interfere with nutrition and patients would lose substantial weight because of that and they fail to thrive.
And some unfortunate patients would progress to where the disease can transform into a higher risk cancer like acute leukemia and after that it would accelerate and they require more urgent therapy that can affect their life immediately.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Marti, do these signs and symptoms sound like your experience?
Marti Uden: Yes. About 10 years ago my internist noticed that I had ever decreasing platelets. I also was anemic, I began to bruise a lot, I would have massive bloodshot eyes, they'd stay for several weeks, and go away and then I'd get them again. I had shortness of breath and was tired. And my doctor said, "Okay, now is the time for us to find out what's going on." We had a family friend that was at Northwestern in Chicago, and so we went to see him and after tests and a bone marrow biopsy he determined that I had myelofibrosis, so I said, "What'll we do now?" And he said, "I want you to go back to the KU Cancer Center, that's the very best place for you to be right now. And there is a doctor there that is researching myelofibrosis, and I want you to go with him."
Dr. Roy Jensen: Dr. Yacoub, what are the common challenges that face patients with MPN?
Dr. Yacoub: Well, patients with MPN in addition to having to deal with a cancer that is immediately life-threatening, they also have to deal with a chronic disease, a chronic disability because of the heavy burden of symptoms. Even if the blood numbers are continuing to be in a functional range, or an adequate range they still have a significant amount of symptoms that could be a disability to their functioning lives. Those are patients who have jobs to do and families to take care of and grandkids to go to graduation parties for.
The recognition of the need to treat the cancer and treat the symptoms is often missed by many oncologists who don't treat similar cancers, so addressing the chronic quality of life problem, along with treating the cancer is definitely a challenge unless the patient's been treated by an expert in this condition.
And that brings the second problem which is access, because these are uncommon diseases and few oncologists have had enough experience, have had enough interest in treating those patients, and patients sometimes have to travel to meet with a physician who's interested in the particular disease. And this access problem is definitely a challenge when patients are not meeting their needs.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Well thanks for that.
If you're just joining us on Bench to Bedside, we're talking with Dr. Yacoub and Mrs. Uden, an expert in myeloproliferative neoplasms, which are a group of blood diseases. And joining us in the studio is Cameron Poindexter to monitor your questions posted in the comments section. Remember to share this link with people you think might benefit from our discussion, use the #benchtobedside.
Marti, could you tell us about the experience that you had once you came to the Cancer Center, and tell us about how similar your journey was to what Dr. Yacoub described?
Marti Uden: It was a whirlwind, it has been for the last five years. We've experienced the oncology floor at the hospital, we've experienced the ER, the ICU, the clinical research center. Every place we have gone by far I have been treated with excellent, excellent support and care. I can't say enough about the KU Cancer Center. And then there's Dr. Yacoub, and Dr. Yacoub is always enthusiastic, always looking forward to how he can help me, and he's contagious. And it's easy to trust him, and I think that's one of the most important things when you're on this kind of a journey that you have to trust your doctor. And the second thing is that you have to have hope and Dr. Yacoub gives me that hope every time I see him.
And two years ago when I was kind of at the bottom of the mountain he suggested that I start in a trial, and the drug didn't have a name at the time. It was only a number and I was 1 of 16 on that tier of that study. And now that study does have a name, I don't know what it is, but it has a name, and it is in the European market and in the US market. I go to the center for research, a clinical center to receive that drug every 42 days, and they are wonderful over there. In fact, we look forward to seeing Dr. Yacoub and that staff every 42 days because they feel like they're part of our family.
And when I talk to people that may be beginning their journey with cancer I say to them, "You need to go to the KU Med Center, and the KU Cancer Center and get a second opinion."
Dr. Roy Jensen: Well, you're certainly very popular over there as well, which I found out at our phase I celebration event a few months ago. The staff just loves you and it was great that you could bring your family, and we could meet all of them.
Dr. Yacoub what are the recent advances in diagnosing and treating this disease?
Dr. Yacoub: Myeloproliferative neoplasms or cancers are one of the more ancient diseases. They were described over a hundred years ago, but almost everything that we know about them and everything that is worth talking about has only been discovered in the last 15 years. Now, we have identified the driver mutations that actually cause the cancer and we can find one of those mutations in at least 90% of our patients where we can explain to them exactly why their cancer happened. The diagnostic precision has improved substantially given the knowledge we have acquired.
In addition, we have a lot of more ways to predict how patients will behave clinically, or prognosticate their future based on incorporating their health factors, their clinical factors, their lab factors, and their DNA mutations into trying to get our patients a more realistic expectation of how their life is going to be and how is their cancer is going to change or not change. Our ability to provide that precision also has improved substantially.
In terms of treatment, there was not a single drug that is approved for this disease, and the first drug that was approved for those diseases is under 10 years old now, so in terms of providing more tools and options to help our patients we have had drugs approved that help patients, and they help symptoms, and they prolong lives. The pipeline of clinical trials has been very robust and we've been able to provide more experimental tools, just like the option Marti has been receiving, which has improved patient's health and improved outcomes and, hopefully in the future, will provide more tools for us to help other patients, so this has been a wonderful experience to be part of.
We also have expanded the use of stem cell transplant in trying to provide more curative therapy. In the last few years we're able to provide this curative therapy to many of our patients and we can offer them an opportunity to live cancer free and long lives in good health with a curative therapy. It's been a very expedited and exciting journey just for the last 15 years of how mass explosion of knowledge and tools we have at our hands at this time.
I'm proud to say that we have had a clinical trial option for every single patient whichever their presentation was during the last few years. We can give patients what is available right now, and what could be a future option for them already, so I'm proud to state that and give my patients these options.
Dr. Roy Jensen: MPN is an extraordinarily rare disease, and how does that impact an individual patient's care and treatment?
Dr. Yacoub: It's definitely impactful because it is unlikely that one cancer center or one doctor would have enough knowledge and tools to provide the best care, and to advance the science. To circumvent this problem we have to resort to building relationships with colleagues and partners nationwide and worldwide, so I'm glad that the University of Kansas is a leader and a founding member of the largest national consortium, MPN Research Consortium, which is a group of physicians and institutions that are committed to researching MPNs. The funding is provided by the National Institute of Health and the National Cancer Institute. The University of Kansas being an NCI Cancer Center has absolutely been very fruitful in that.
As part of this consortium we're able to add all the expertise and all our skills, and provide more structure to research to advance the science to help more patients. This has been very fruitful, and we've had multiple advances that we contributed to the field through that consortium.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Cameron, I understand we have a question from our audience?
Cameron P.: Yes we do. We do have a question, and the question is, "What are treatment options for MPNS and is immunotherapy an option?"
Dr. Yacoub: Immune therapy is a term that means a lot of things. The beginning of immune therapies has started with immune therapies has started with interferon. And interferon is a natural hormone that the immune cells produced to fight infections, and we've use them over the years to treat infections, and then to treat cancers. And we've cured some cancers with interferons including blood cancers and cell tumors. And interferons are now being used in myeloproliferative neoplasms. Actually, we were part of the largest trial in the world to implement and investigate interferons as an immune therapy in patients with cancer and, particularly, in patients with early phases of myeloproliferative neoplasms. And the results were as excellent as we all expected. And some of these results have resulted in approvals of some of those interferons in Europe, and we're still waiting on US approval for that.
The more understanding of immune therapies including recent antibodies or checkpoint inhibitors, as well as CAR T-cell therapy, those have not yet been successfully investigated in myeloproliferative neoplasms, as well as in other diseases, so we don't yet have an application for that in these diseases.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Marti, we've covered a lot of information today. What advice would you give our audience based on your experience?
Marti Uden: First of all, I would say that it's real important to find a doctor that you trust, a doctor that encourages you along the way, and tries new things. And I know that hope, I mentioned that before, hope is so important and Dr. Yacoub has given me that hope and that has helped me to live longer, and most of all to live better.
And second of all, I think it's real important to find a place like the KU Cancer Center that believes in research and believes in patient support and advocacy. Without that kind of progressive environment I really don't think I'd be sitting here today.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Well, in large part we have to think the voters of Johnson County who decided to fund the [J-CERT 00:19:49] initiative, which allowed us to build our clinical trial facility in Fairway, and it's made all of this possible.
Dr. Yacoub: And thank you Marti for allowing us to be part of your journey, and allowing us to help. It's been our pleasure and our honor to be part of your team.
We also have been very much invested in patient advocacy through our partnership with the Leukemia/Lymphoma Society and we have had consistently, every year two semiannual events where we invite patients and their families to spend time with us, and talk about the disease. We invite speakers, we invite patients to speak, we invite experts to speak. And soon we're going to have our 10th regular patient symposium to spread the knowledge for patients, and it's an open invitation for patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms. And it's been extremely rewarding to us and to the patients who've experienced it.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Any summary thoughts on MPNs before we wrap up this morning?
Dr. Yacoub: Yeah, so again, in the big scheme of oncology this represents a small section of those cancers, but for the patients who have it it's all they have and it is the most important health problem, and the most important diagnoses one would have. I advocate for patients to seek opinions, I advocate them to try something else.
There's so many online resources, there's online registries, so you can help yourself, but also help advance the knowledge and the science by being proactive, seeking help, seeking second opinions, and seeking online resources through the Leukemia/Lymphoma Society and the MPNRC and the MPN Research Foundation. There's a lot of good sites to seek information from. The University of Kansas Cancer Center also has a patient library where some of this material can be made available.
I think we need to start educating patients and let them take charge of their health and seek the best care they can get.
Dr. Roy Jensen: Well, thank you so much Dr. Yacoub. And thank you Marti, it's been a pleasure having you on and I, certainly, enjoyed hearing your story at our event back a few months ago.
Well, that's it for today. For more information on myeloproliferative neoplasms please visit kucancercenter.org. We hope you'll join us next week Wednesday at 10 AM. Thanks for watching.
