InfoFAQ - Prescription Drugs (Questions and Answers)
With the Internet growing at such a rapid pace, finding drugs online has become simple for today's consumer. From pharmacies to prescription drugs, InfoFAQ has navigated the options to help consumers find exactly what they are looking for, and the best advice. We have compiled a list of the most frequently asked questions when searching for the right drug retailers and products online.
Frequently Asked Questions About Prescription Drugs Online
Is it true that you can save a lot of money if you buy your prescription drugs over the internet?
In many cases you can find the same drugs that your doctor has prescribed for you on the internet, and at a lower price than you might pay at the local drug store.
I want to try to find the prescriptions that I need on the internet, but I'm worried that I might get the wrong drug. Can I trust these online pharmacies?
Many of the large drug store chains now have web sites where you can have your prescriptions filled and the drugs sent to you by parcel post. Try and find an online pharmacy that you know of and feel comfortable with because you know their stores in your area.
Are there any disadvantages to ordering my prescriptions online?
If you're like most people, you go to the same place to get your prescriptions filled. The local pharmacist has probably gotten to know you, and is familiar with the full regimen of medications that you are taking. It is the pharmacist's job to notice any drugs that might react badly if taken together and protect you from dangerous drug interactions. While some online pharmacies have questionnaires for you to fill out that attempt to do the same job as your pharmacist, you just can't be sure in most cases that they are looking out for you like your local pharmacist.
I really need to save money on my prescription drug bills, so how can protect myself while still using these online vendors?
Many people do buy their prescription drugs online. The key is to take responsibility for knowing all the drugs you are taking, and discussing them with your own doctor so that you have an understanding of potential dangerous interactions. Then get your first prescription filled locally. When you need a refill, you can use the label to make sure that you are ordering and receiving the exact same drug or remedy. Consult your doctor if you are not sure about what you are about to take.
Is any old online pharmacy as good as the next when I go to order my prescription drugs online?
There are some internet prescription drug sites that will sell you drugs like Viagra with out a prescription. Their quality control may be poor for all you know, with out of date medications. They may be operating from another country like Canada to skirt US health and safety regulations. The name of the game is buyer beware. So check out any online pharmacy using your own research before you buy from them.
Acupuncture for chronic Prostatitis and Pelvic Pain Can Help Fight Prostate Pain so does acupuncture work Acupuncture is a traditional treatment procedure that Read more
Neck Spasm Treatment – Get Rid Of Neck Spasm in 3 Steps
An effective neck surgery can help you to get rid of all neck problemsFor getting relief from all types of Read more
Common skin conditions.
SKIN DISEASES YOU SHOULD WATCH OUT FOR. There are different skin disorders, they all vary in symptoms. Most Read more
TEETH WHITENING REMEDIES AND ITS SIDE EFFECTS.
ALL YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT TEETH WHITENING. We all want to have white teeth, but then with age is Read more
Asthma is a chronic disorder that causes the airways to swell and get narrow. The inflammation in the airways leads to problems like wheezing, shortness of breath, and coughing.
Asthma is one of the common chronic diseases of childhood. Children are usually affected by both asthma and allergies.
Get information about the signs and symptoms of asthma in children. Know how asthma is diagnosed and the various treatments for childhood asthma.
Symptoms of asthma in children
The most common symptoms of asthma are coughing and wheezing. In case of cough-variant asthma, coughing can be the only symptom. Wheezing is another symptom of asthma that is a high-pitched whistling sound that is the result of turbulent airflow passing through narrowed airways. The other symptoms of asthma in children include:
1. Shortness of breath or feeling out of breath
2. Breathing faster than normal
3. Chest tightness
4. Gasping for air
5. Dark bags under the eyes
6. Tiredness and irritability
It is mostly seen that the symptoms worsen with exertion or during the night. Certain asthma symptoms depend on the season and can be due to environmental allergies. It is important to find a good asthma treatment to recover completely.
If at any time you feel that your child has developed a new symptom, call your doctor immediately. Emergency symptoms of asthma include difficulty in breathing, bluish color on the lips and face, severe anxiety because of shortness of breath, rapid pulse rate, extreme sweating, drowsiness and confusion.
Diagnosis of asthma in children
The doctor can easily diagnose asthma by examining the lungs of the child. It can be done with the help of the various tests available these days. Children, who are five years old, can undergo the Spirometry breathing test to diagnose asthma. Also, the exhaled nitric oxide test can be used to check the lung functioning of a five-year-old child. Children who are below the age of 5 years are not fit to take these tests, so the doctor may use the peak flow meter to check their lung functioning. The peak flow meter is a helpful device that tells you how the child blows air out of his or her lungs. Chest x-rays and allergy testing can also be used to diagnose asthma in children.
Treatment for asthma
For asthma treatment, it is important to adequately control the symptoms and find the best inhaler for the condition. By doing so, the risk for future exacerbations gets minimized. It is also important to maintain the normal lung flow of the child to treat this problem.
There are two types of medicines available in the market for treating asthma: long-term control drugs and rescue asthma drugs.
Ø Long-term control drugs are medicines that need to be taken daily to prevent the asthma symptoms. These drugs include inhaled steroids, long-acting bronchodilators, Leukotriene inhibitors, and Cromolyn sodium.
Ø Quick relief or rescue asthma drugs are made to instantly control the asthma symptoms. They are used when the child gets an asthma attack or when he is coughing or wheezing. These asthma drugs can be taken using aninhaler. It is advisable to use a spacer device along with the inhaler to ensure the medicine reaches the lungs properly. For younger children, it is better to use a nebulizer instead of an inhaler.
Find out the things that trigger your child’s asthma
Try to find out the things that worsen your child’s asthma. These things are known as asthma triggers. There are many things that can trigger asthma like pollen, dust mites, mold, pet dander, smoke, and more. Once you find the asthma trigger that worsens your child’s asthma, you can keep him away from these to prevent an attack.
Can asthma be prevented?
Various studies show that kids who live on farms are protected against asthma and various environmental allergies. Air pollution and changes in climate are the main causes of asthma and allergies. Also, maternal smoking during pregnancy can cause asthma to the child. The researchers believe that kids who live in the rural areas and use less of antibiotics are less likely to suffer from asthma or any allergy.
It is advisable to monitor your child’s asthma regularly with the help of the peak flow meter. By doing so, you can easily control the condition. Asthma attacks usually come with warning, so you can either suppress pharma products via pharmaceutical manufacturers or take advice from your doctor before hand.
If at any time you feel that your child has developed a new symptom, call your doctor immediately. Emergency symptoms of asthma include difficulty in breathing, bluish color on the lips and face, severe anxiety because of shortness of breath, rapid pulse rate, extreme sweating, drowsiness and confusion.
Mostly, it is seen that the asthma symptoms in children lessen and go away once they grow up. Asthma that is not controlled in time can cause lung problems that can last a lifetime.
TweetPinLikeShareLinkedInYummlyFacebookPrintEmail
Tagged andAsthmachildrenfoodsignssymptoms,Treatment
Post navigation
Cure For Rheumatoid Arthritis In Ayurveda
Healthy living plans,Lifestyle with Healthy Foods
Related Posts
A Guide To Eating Indian Food When On A Diet
The 10 Health Benefits of Honey For Healthy Living
Why Should You Buy Cryovials?
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Please enter an answer in digits:
17 − 6 =
Δ
Popular Categories
ALL Pain (8)
Ayurveda (2)
Dental (4)
Depression (2)
Diabetes (6)
Diet (9)
Diseases (7)
Fitness (11)
Food (172)
Growing Food (1)
Health (77)
Health Inventions (5)
Health Study (14)
Heart (1)
Home Remedy (17)
Injury (3)
Medical Devices (7)
Save HEALTH Bills (7)
Skin Treatment (4)
Tech (1)
Treatment (3)
Uncategorized (3)
Weight Loss (9)
Recent Posts
What is Water Aerobics
Learn How to Craft the Ultimate Weight Loss Plan!
International best cupcake Recipes
The Best Choice of Drink In All Occasions
How the E-Cig Revolution Started and How Things Are Today
How to Keep Your Staff Healthy in the Workplace
Find Best Foods to Eat to Strengthen Your Teeth? – Dental Nutrition
Balanced diet for busy students
New To The Spa Scene? – Here Are The Five Most Popular Spa Secrets Treatments
Chronic Prostatitis and Pelvic Pain Treatment by Acupuncture
Neck Spasm Treatment – Get Rid Of Neck Spasm in 3 Steps
Groundbreaking Medical research in using the blood of Umbilical cord
Pinterest – Ingredients For Marketing Your Food Business
Five Easy Ways to Protect Your Skin During the Summertime
Eight Surprising Signs That You Are Stressed – How To Identify Them
Tags
about all and are benefits best can Diet diets fitness food for good hair health healthy home how know loss medical no pain People remedies remedy save skin? study that the time tips top Treatment ways weight weight loss what when why with work you your
TU Law Students Identify Link Between Housing and Health in Tulsa - College of Law
> Featured > TU Law Students Identify Link Between Housing and Health in Tulsa
TU Law Students Identify Link Between Housing and Health in Tulsa
As a part of their work with the Lobeck Taylor Community Advocacy Clinic through The University of Tulsa College of Law, three students have uncovered the link between poor housing and health outcomes in Tulsa. The study, authored by Preston Brasch, Courtney Nelbach and Mike Shouse for Legal Aid Services of Oklahoma, has been presented with great interest to the Tulsa Mayor's administration including Nick Doctor, chief of community development and policy.
Housing study authors and TU Law students Preston Brasch and Mike Shouse speaking with Lis Exon of OETA.
"The clinic was an opportunity to explore policy work at a very substantial and in-depth level while learning how to represent a client," said Brasch, TU law student and study coauthor. "So much of what students do in school is an exercise or skill development, but not so much application of those skills. Clinic, however, offered the chance to develop skills that allowed our team to create a product that is still having an effect on the community at large."
The study estimates that 52 percent of Tulsa renters are currently living in substandard or overcrowded housing, and points out that "substandard homes can expose families to natural gas leaks, lead paint poisoning, pest infestation, poor water, unsanitary conditions, extreme weather and high levels of moisture and mold. In fact, prolonged exposure to such conditions can cause serious short and long-term physical and mental health problems including injuries, respiratory diseases, neurological disorders, poor child development and psychological dysfunction."
The study identifies the areas in Tulsa that have concentrated poverty and more substandard housing as well as possible solutions including enforcement of housing ordinances, managing vacant and abandoned homes, conducting home inspections and possible funding options.
"I didn't realize just how much this project would mean to the City of Tulsa," said Brasch. "I've had a number of people who work in city hall tell me that they have read our report. It seems to have elevated the awareness of Tulsa's housing problem and provided a tool for advocates to effectuate positive change."
TU Law student Courtney Nelbach and Preston Brasch after meeting with Nick Doctor, Tulsa's chief of community development and policy regarding the housing study and recommendations.
The students conducted their research by gathering data and interviewing experts in late 2016. Click here for a full copy of the report.
The Lobeck Taylor Community Advocacy Clinic (CAC) at The University of Tulsa College of Law offers students the opportunity to explore the ethical, strategic and theoretical dimensions of legal practice by solving real-life legal problems in a structured learning environment.
Try to find a balance that works best for you between staying informed about COVID-19 and taking a break from news and social media for a time. Hearing large amounts of information over and over can be upsetting.
Children and teens look to their parents and caregivers as role models for how to react. Take time to talk with your children and teens about COVID-19 in a calm way with information that is right for their age. Tell your child or teen that they are safe and let them know it is okay to feel upset. They are also feeling the strain of missing out on social activities and milestones such as birthday parties, sporting events and graduations. Be patient as they struggle with their emotions. Keep up with routines as much as you can. Be alert for common, age-specific, reactions to distress.
People who work as part of the healthcare system, including administrators and maintenance staff have unique stressors and challenges. Supporting the well-being of healthcare providers is critical to reducing burnout and keeping these heroes safe.
If you are responding to COVID-19, remember that secondary traumatic stress (STS) caused by risk of infection, patient volumes, staff shortage, death toll and financial stress can affect your physical health and mental health. It is essential to take care of yourself so you can continue to care for others. While there are many things outside of your control, focus on the things that are within your control to help manage stress and anxiety and promote resilience.
Fever, coughing, and problem breathing are a few of the signals and indicators that have been seen in individuals infected. Some of the people have also described having a painful throat. There is been some speculation about the serious disease-causing possible of the book coronavirus while these states aren't reinforced with appropriate proof. People with serious Coronavirus and outdated people might create higher chances of getting a severe disease consequently with this virus.
The folks who are residing or touring about the area where in actuality the disease is predominant have reached a higher risk of infection based on the WHO. Currently, the virus is just within China and all the non-residents of China who've been infected have visited to China recently and have already been in contact with the contaminated folks who are from China.
Therefore, based on WHO, the danger to the individuals who are maybe not surviving in China is suprisingly low provided that you never enter into contact with one of the non-resident Asian folks who are infected. Also, the WHO claims that simple disinfectants can certainly get rid of the disease when it is provide on an area and also the emergency time of the virus on any surface is quite low.

iTunes Plus is the new standard for iTunes. ITunes Plus are songs and music videos available in our audio coding high quality AAC at 256 Kbps (twice the quality of protected music purchases ), and without digital rights management (DRM ). You can burn to CD iTunes Plus music as many times as you want, sync with any device that supports the AAC format (such as the iPod, iPhone or Apple TV) , and played on any Mac or Windows computers. flora cash Can Summer Love Last Forever? m4a
Preview, flora cash, Can Summer Love Last Forever?, music, singles, songs, Singer/Songwriter, itunes music Preview songs from the album Can Summer Love Last Forever?, including "And Ever", "For Someone", "Mezmer", "Nightmare", "Atone", "Down on Your Knees", "Pharaoh" and many more.

The “TLC” diet plan or the “overall low cholesterol” diet is a diet for lowering cholesterol. This existed by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) last May of 2001 as a new diet plan standard for those who have high blood cholesterol and are at threat of cardiovascular disease. This new diet plan for lowering cholesterol was also backed by the American Heart Association and added it as one of its compound on dietary and lifestyle change for individuals who …
The majority of people understand the word “cholesterol”. A lot of us know that it is a waxy compound among the fats found in the arteries. Cholesterol is crucial in the formation of cell membranes and other tissues. However if the cholesterol level is high, it might cause a stroke. A high cholesterol level is among the primary risk factors of heart problem. Sustaining a healthy diet plan and adequate workout can reduce the cholesterol level. Consuming cholesterol complimentary foods …
actually / calories / causes / diet / food / foods / found / healthy / heart / items / low / one / people / problem / reduce / shopping / skin / total / understand / workout	
Today, more and more people suffer from high cholesterol and obesity due to improper food intake, unbalanced diet, and unhealthy lifestyle. Whatever the reasons behind the certain condition such as having high blood cholesterol level, the first treatment any physician will recommend is a low cholesterol diet. A Guide to Low Cholesterol and Cholesterol Diets As defined, cholesterol is a complex alcohol constituent of all animals fats and oils. It is a sterol that is related to other sterols and …
available / blood / diet / disease / fact / food / foods / found / having / heart / low / lower / part / people / person / reduce / regular / shopping / time / treatment	
Borderline personality disorder and bipolar are often mistaken as being the same thing. They are also often misdiagnosed, one for the other. This is because the symptoms for both illnesses are startlingly similar. Borderline personality disorder is actually less common and less known than bipolar. Borderline personality disorder accounts for only about twenty percent of hospitalizations for mental illness each year, while bipolar accounts for about fifty percent of hospitalizations. Borderline personality disorder is most common in young women, whereas …
actually / anxiety / bipolar / causes / depression / disorder / found / frequently / having / important / medication / medications / mental / one / over / shopping / similar / symptoms / treatment / typically	
Self improvement (or self help) tools come in many shapes and sizes; sometimes it’s physical in nature (a self help book, having a massage, painting with water colors), or spiritual in nature (flower essences, Reiki, meditation which is both physical and spiritual, etc). Five of the best self help options that I’ve used successfully to help soothe my own mind, body and spirit, are: 1. Meditation techniques – a fabulous self help tool which greatly benefits overall health and wellbeing. …
Dietary and lifestyle patterns in relation to high blood pressure in children: the GRECO study. - Aprifel
Dietary and lifestyle patterns in relation to high blood pressure in children: t...
Panagiotakos DB., Farajian P., Risvas G., Micha R., Tsioufis C., Zampelas A.
Journal of hypertension. #: p
Unit of Human Nutrition, Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Agricultural University of Athens bDepartment of Science of Dietetics - Nutrition, Harokopio University c1st Department of Cardiology, University of Athens Medical School, Hippokration General Hospital, Athens, Greece dFriedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA eDepartment of Nutrition and Health, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates. azampelas@aua.gr
Privacy Policy - MindSet Magazine
Privacy Notice – MINDSET MAGAZINE
This is the Privacy Notice for Mindset Magazine issued in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
how we will process any personal data that we collect from you and what it will be used for,
the information that you are entitled to receive from us when we collect your personal data and
This Privacy Notice applies to any personal data which you may provide to us in person, over the telephone, by e-mail, on our website and/or by post.
This Privacy Notice also applies to any personal data which we may collect from third parties about you and/or which we may collect when you access our website and/or in the course of our relationship.
This Privacy Notice only applies to personal data collected by or on behalf of Mindset Magazine via the company's website or by any other means. The company's website may from time to time contain links to and from other websites (partner networks, advertisers and affiliates). If you follow a link to any external website or alternatively reach our website from a third party website, please be aware that these websites will have their own privacy policies, separate from ours, and we therefore do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies. Please check their policies before you submit any personal data to these websites.
For the purposes of the Data Protection Act 2018 and the General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (together, the data protection legislation), Mindset Magazine is the data controller of your personal data.
Mindset Magazine is a revolutionary publication dedicated to the health of the mind. As well as providing invaluable information, we will also be a platform for opinion and debate, with up-to-date news of research and development, and a place where you can share your personal experiences with others..
Contact Details: Name, address, contact telephone number (mobile and landline), e-mail address
When you make an enquiry, register your interest or create an account on our website.
When you contact us in person, over the telephone, by email or by post
At the point of purchasing from us
When you become a supporter or co-owner
We will use the details you have shared to manage your entry to any competition or prize draw. This may include your name, e-mail address and telephone number. We shall use such information to notify you if you are the winner. Your data will be retained for the period of the competition only and will not be added to any marketing lists unless you have consented to this. Your data will be shared with a third party where they were named at the point of data capture and you explicitly agreed to the sharing of your data or where they are a third party who we have appointed to manage the delivery of your prize.
We will use the details you have shared to send you the newsletter to which you have subscribed. We will not add your details to any marketing lists, unless you have consented to this. We will provide a way for you to unsubscribe on every newsletter we send to you. Details you share with us for the purpose of newsletter subscription will never be shared with a third party.
We will use the details you have shared to manage your registration and entry into our event. This may include contact via telephone, email, SMS and post with information relating to the event you have registered to attend. Your data will not be added to any marketing lists unless you have consented to this. Your data will only be shared with a third party where they were named at the point of data capture and you explicitly agreed to the sharing of your data or where they are a third party who we have appointed to manage the delivery of the event.
We will use the details you have shared to manage your subscription to Mindset Magazine, which includes sending the magazine, managing access to any digital version, taking secure payments, to fulfil any gift that was offered at the time of purchase, to handle any customer query you may have and to contact you via telephone, email, SMS and post with information relating to your magazine subscription. E.g. to notify you of the expiry date of your subscription, that a delivery to you may be delayed or to remind you of a password or to notify you of updates to our Privacy Policy, Cookies Policies or Terms of Use. Your data will not be added to any marketing lists unless you have consented to this, and will only be shared with third parties where we have appointed them to manage specific aspects of your magazine subscription.
We may use the information you provide to invite you to participate in surveys and focus groups about our products, advertisers and services. Participation is always voluntary and the answers you provide are anonymous unless explicitly stated otherwise, and aggregated to support our learnings and inform changes we can make to improve our products and services. Your data will not be added to any marketing lists unless you have consented to this and were informed at the point of capture and will only be shared with third parties where we have appointed them to manage research activity on our behalf.
Occasionally we get paid by commercial partners to carry out research on their behalf. In this situation, the data we share with them will be anonymous, however, we may share your personal data with specific commercial partners where they were named at point of capture and where you agreed to the sharing of your personal data with them.
We may use the details you share with us to send you offers and promotions by email, post, telephone or SMS wherever we have legitimate interest grounds to do so and where you have not objected. We will provide a way for you to opt-out of receiving marketing promotions both at the time of data capture and every time we contact you thereafter. You can also amend your contact preferences in your online account if you have one set up, or email info@mindsetmagazine.co.uk to request your details are suppressed from all promotional campaigns. We won't use your personal data for marketing purposes at all if you've told us not to.
Whenever we process data for these purposes we will ensure that we always keep your personal data rights in high regard and take account of these rights. Find out more about your rights and how to exercise in paragraph 8 below.
The Mindset Magazine website uses Google Analytics as its primary solution for tracking website visits, interactions and events. Mindset Magazine uses website analytics data to help improve the way we deliver content and online experiences to visitors.
For full details on how Google processes your data please click here [external link].
Mindset Magazine does not currently show advertising to users on its website but reserves the right to do so. Our websites may show advertising to users. A proportion of this advertising may be tailored to the individual user, a practice known as "Online Behavioural Advertising" which uses cookies to discover general information about the pages you visit. Our advertising delivery systems and partners uses the limited information available to it to serve adverts to you, which it believes are relevant. It does not collect personal information such as your name, email address postal address or telephone number.
From time to time, Mindset Magazine may share this aggregated data with its advertising partners. This could mean that when you are on other websites you are served advertising based on your behaviour across our or other sites.
If you want to opt out of receiving Online Behavioural Advertising this does not mean that you will no longer receive advertising when you are using our sites. It just means that the advertising you see will not be customised for you. If you would like more information about online behavioural targeting and how to opt out of it, please visit www.youronlinechoices.com or you can also visit www.networkadvertising.org.
When you click on links or advertisements on any of our sites, you will leave that site and go to a third-party site, which is outside of our control. When we place an advertisement on one of our sites, it does not signify that we are endorsing that advertiser's product or service. We do not accept responsibility for content we have no control over and our Privacy Policy does not apply to these companies, sites or content and if such third-party sites collect personal data, we cannot control how this data is processed, stored or used. We advise that you read their data collection statements, which accompany any registration and their Privacy Policies before you submit your personal information.
We use servers located in the EEA to store data. When you submit your details and in whichever country you are situated you agree to the data being transferred to the EEA and processed under the terms of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) including any implementing data protection legislation in the UK. If you are not in agreement please do not add your personal details on the website. Mindset Magazine makes no representation or warranty that the content and materials on the Website are appropriate or available for use in locations outside of the United Kingdom. Those who choose to access the Website or use the services from other locations do so on their own initiative and at their own risk, and are responsible for compliance with local laws, if and to the extent applicable.
Mindset Magazine has formed partnerships with a variety of carefully selected companies that we share data with in order to carry out the activities described in the section How we use your Personal Data. When we share data with third parties we will ask them to confirm that their security measures are adequate to protect your personal data.
Under the GDPR and current UK data protection you have the rights shown below:
You have the right to access your personal data, including us providing to you without charge, a copy (which may be in electronic form) of any of your personal data that we are holding or using (referred to as "processing") or that third parties are processing on our behalf.
8.2 Right to Removal or Correction of Personal Data and to Restrict Processing
a right to request us to delete any of your personal data. In certain we may wish to retain data and if GDPR allows us to do so we will inform you of our grounds. ("Right to erasure" or "Right to be forgotten").
8.3 Rights Concerning Automated Processing and Profiling
8.5 Exercising your rights
If you wish to exercise any of these rights or simply wish to find out what information, if any, we hold that relates to you, you must make your request in writing by sending an email to info@mindsetmagazine.co.uk.
You can help us to process your request quickly by providing us with information that will help us identify records we hold that relate to you. For example, your name, address, email address, telephone number, or in the case of information captured via cookies, the IP address of the device you have used.
Any changes we may make to this Privacy Notice in the future will be posted on this website and, where appropriate, notified to you by e-mail. Please check back frequently to see any updates or changes to this Privacy Notice.
Please let us know if you are unhappy with how we have processed your personal data. You can contact us on the contact details at the "Contact Us" link on our website or by writing to the Data Protection Lead at the address given below.
If you have any questions, or want more details about how we process your personal data, or if you wish to exercise any of your rights you can contact us on the contact details at the "Contact Us" link on our website or by writing to the Data Protection Lead at the address given below.
The primary goal of our research is to help people relieve their suffering and reach their life goals. Our main focus lies in determining the optimal psychological interventions to treat individuals with anxiety and related disorders, including depression and OCD. We believe that we can improve our treatments by understanding the psychological mechanisms involved in the maintenance and treatment of anxiety and depression. To this end, we are interested in examining the cognitive, behavioral, and affective aspects of the depression, anxiety and related disorders, how comorbidity influences them, and the therapist and patient contributions to outcome.
More specifically, we are developing a multilevel research strategy examining factors related to the maintenance and treatment of depression and anxiety disorders including panic disorder, social anxiety, general anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, and other anxiety disorders. Overall, our general approach to research is to be theory-driven, integrative, and empirical. We believe strongly that most issues in clinical psychology should be examined through the scientific method using clinical intuition, and that integrating findings from disparate areas of psychology to come up with novel hypotheses will help advance knowledge. We plan on continuing to use this philosophy in order to continue our lines of research in mechanisms and treatment outcomes for anxiety disorders and depression.
Since the coronavirus pandemic first began, there have been many conflicting reports on whether or not you can be reinfected with the novel coronavirus.
In most cases, people who have tested positive for COVID-19 have later tested positive for antibodies, which help contribute to immunity (called The Adaptive Immune System).
But despite the overall effectiveness of The Adaptive Immune System, it's NOT perfect.
…And sometimes it fails.
In fact, researchers from Hong Kong have just confirmed it COULD BE possible to be infected with COVID-19 twice.
Here's everything you need to know about reinfection – and how to best protect yourself against infection.
What you need to know about coronavirus reinfection
It's a COVID patient's worst nightmare: Surviving the virus once, only to become infected again months later.
Well, folks, it turns out – this could be a reality.
A new study published in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases provides new proof of a 33-year-old man from Hong Kong.
The man was first infected back in March and stayed in the hospital until he tested negative for the virus in mid-April.
And in mid-August he was screened for COVID-19 after returning from a trip to Spain, and tested positive.
The only difference? He showed no symptoms the second time around!
According to experts, his case proves that it IS possible for this coronavirus to infect the same person twice.
While people may very well be able to get COVID-19 twice, it is rare for this to happen.
But I do think that it's best to continue practicing social distancing, wear a mask (here are some tips for an effective face mask), and ALWAYS exercise caution if you need to leave the house.
Karolinska High Throughput Center | Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics | Karolinska Institutet
Karolinska Institutet Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics Start
Listen Karolinska High Throughput CenterCore Facilities Introduction to KHTC KHTC offers open access to one of the most sophisticated and versatile analysis platforms in Europe, which includes integrated liquid and microplate handling, high-throughput screening (HTS) and Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) capabilities. We provide services, expertise and training in the fields of systems biology, functional genomics and drug-discovery to the Swedish and international scientific community. KHTC is part of the national SciLifeLab Functional Genomics platform. Services Assay: miniaturization and optimization to microplate formats Liquid handling: down to nl levels in 96-, 384- and 1536-microplate formats HTS: screening of compound or small interfering RNAs (siRNA) libraries in biochemical and cellular assays including hit-validation or follow up of knock-down efficiency NGS: assistance and access to sequencing capabilities with rapid turnaround times Training: experimental design and operation of the high-throughput laboratory platforms
Equipment and tools Technological platforms: The BIG robot - flexible assay development and HTS platform containing 28 integrated instruments High-throughput flow cytometry platform with integrated auto-sampler system High-capacity platform for analysis of biomolecular interactions Pre-PCR DNA barcoding platform Microbial colony picking and arraying systems Next Generation Sequencing platform
Detection instruments: Automated microscope: Pathway 855 from BD Biosciences High-content imager: Acumen eX3 from TTP Labtech Flow cytometer; CyAn ADP from Beckman Multilabel plate reader; EnVision from PerkinElmer Real-time PCR device; LightCycler 480 from Roche NGS sequencers; HiSeq2000 from Illumina
Reagents: Compound collection siRNA libraries ORFeome clones
Facility updates Altogether 26 projects were completed in 2014 We have assisted scientists from four Swedish universities, several international universities and also from small biotech companies Results generated within the facility during 2010-2014 have been incorporated into19 publications, five of these articles have been published in journals with impact factor >25 During last year we received funding from Vinnova for collaboration with a Swedish biotech company, which allowed screening of the entire compound collection We have recently expanded our services within small molecule screening to offer better analysis services using the tools from Collaborative Drug Discovery
Personnel Platform Director:
Jussi Taipale Platform Manager:
Anders Eriksson Laboratory Manager:
Jianping Liu Research Engineer:
Natalia Nekhotiaeva Senior Research Scientist:
Minna Taipale Contact Laboratory manager Anders B Eriksson Organizational unit: Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics (MBB), C2 E-mail: anders.eriksson@ki.se Collaborations Systems Biology Group - Taipale lab
Core facilityDrugGene regulationGeneticsGenomicsImagingPharmacologySystems Biology 26 Apr 2016 by Chad Tunell. © Karolinska Institutet
